ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78345	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS and I think that if we wanted to respond with the right measure, we who are in the ruling coalition to those who say elections now, we should actually say here's the election. If you want so much elections, if at this very moment and in these circumstances you want to have elections in the country and you choose the elections, we'll give you choices to see what you're going to do, and let's see what kind of government you're going to put together, and see what kind of policies you're going to run with and who you're going to form the government with. Just so much for that. But I understand your demands, if in this situation you want to plant your muscles and prove you're strong, that you can lead the government, that's fine. But we all know that you are not and we all know that parties as political institutions are weak from day to day. Someone's getting a little stronger, someone's getting a little weak, but a whole lot of weak. As the total institutions in the country have been weak, which has been finished by the state for almost 30 years. It's just some enthusiasts and adventurers think the state can just sort out and agree. And they can do it. And they're allowed it either for youth or for ignorance. But Kreshi Beljak, Davor Bernardić, Branko Bačić, Milorad Pupovac is not allowed to do so. To deceive the people in such a way after 30 years, it is not allowed. Now let me say what I answered on behalf of the club. We learned in the ruling coalition, and I guess the opposition people, too, how can things end when someone doesn't understand the difference between the corporation and the government? Between private company management and public business management and public interest? I suppose that some other colleagues who speak differently today than they said a few years ago, first of all, I think of respected colleagues from the Most, have learned that politics does not act as a conspiracy-justice society because there is no important difference between those who act as a corporation convinced that their interest is the world and that they cover everything and those who understand their political goals as a just conspirator society so they can participate in the formation of the BORG group as did someone who is no longer a member of the Government. And in order for this not to happen, we also need as a member of the ruling SDSS coalition to see that it is necessary to create a legislative framework and strengthen the institutional capacities of the state so that such things do not happen. To know what is the framework for lobbying, what is the framework for conflict of interest, that it does not happen to us like what happened to us that the General Tax Law is done by people who are consultants, and that social partners cannot participate in that and when they join them that meetings are no longer held. Whose interests do these consultants represent or represent? How many meetings were held? Who took part in those meetings? Is there a record? There isn't. What we need to learn from our e-mails is to change our practice. And that's that wherever a state official goes, wherever working groups are formed, there's got to be a trail, it's got to be recorded, and it can be solved by law, and that's why we, taught by this story, are going to launch an initiative to pass the Law on lobbying and on the negative consequences of the same procedure. Yes, we must form, call for consultants because we have a weak state. I've got a little time left, so I'm gonna answer that question, and we need to change that. Those who speak today about the state of human rights and hate speech should thank, among other things, the SDSS Club and the Serbian People's Council for keeping records of this, so that international organisations and public defenders know what's going on and let us not be taught here. And those who don't know the difference between straight up and Peter's up, I can only say they're Ustasha. [[The incursion president: Thank you, thank you.]] We who know what Petrova mountain is, we are partisans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78346	Now there's a free speech coming up and first in line is respected colleague Dragana Jeckov on behalf of the SDSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78347	The colleagues who want to leave the hall should leave, and who wants to stay put so that my colleague Jeckov can say hers on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here are my colleagues, Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78348	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs and MPs. In this brief presentation, I'm going to say a few facts that are important to talk about. Namely, the house and stables of Serb returnees in the village of Zalužnica near Otočac, Croatia, were burned. Newspaper of 22. 5. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: The seniors yelled "For Home Ready" and wrote Ustasha graphs 22. 5. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: Graffite in Djakov with a shameful message to Serbian children with a drawn fascist sign 23. 5. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: Only in all days 3 titles that need to be worried and warned but also challenge the reaction of normal ordinary people and institutions where normal and ordinary people work. In his annual bulletin, SNV pointed to 393 events in 2017, which include ethnic intolerance, audit and denial of historical events and insults, threats, physical attacks and hate speech that relate exclusively to Serbs in Croatia. 11 physical attacks on members of the Serb community in Croatia or Serbian citizens were reported in 2018. 17 devastations of anti-fascist monuments, 30 damages to Serb-owned objects mainly by Serbian Orthodox churches and at least 107 insults and threats addressed to Serbs. In addition to the clearly expressed messages that Serbians wish to be told that they, as well as their culture, language and letter, and in particular political action are not welcome in Croatia, it is even more dangerous that such phenomena in our society are almost silently accepted. The reactions of those who need to act preventively but also those who need to act repressively are lagging behind. Right then, the test falls under the signed international conventions by the Constitution of guaranteed rights and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Such devastating facts as are truly real, no matter how questionable to some, are carefully recorded and become part of the infamous statistics and infamous state in which we are as a society. And afterwards, following such facts, as usual practice, a review of the validity of the same, their banalizing the contest of such events appears. However, there remains a clear message and bitter in the mouth of all who are on any basis in the minority or are simply normal, ordinary people. Very often, members of the Serb community who talk about such events respect the impracticalness of the tendency to exaggerate events and so on, but what about the European Commission's report against racism and intolerance that praises the progress Croatia has made but warns about a series of problems among which are the escalating of racist speech towards minorities, Serbs, LGBT minorities and Roma? What about the fact that the main targets of Serbs and LGBT are persons and Roma, which are commonly used in local media and on the internet by racist and xenophobic expressions that are directed against them? What about the fact that it is inexorable to increase nationalism especially among young people? And at the end of the European Commission's report against racism and intolerance of sentences, the answer of the authorities cannot be considered fully appropriate because often incidents are not punishable by criminality but by criminality, and authorities rarely publicly condemn hate speech. Since the reports from year to year are becoming more dramatic, more drastic, and for some of us even more painful, it is obvious that society as a society has not realized that we are not able to cope alone for a more peaceful everyday life. Then at least let us listen to those in whose society we so badly wanted to be, listen to the recommendations of polite Europe and spend them otherwise we will continue to be silent witnesses who will read stunning headlines, look at messages on the walls of our cities like those "Death of everything I disagree with" and watch the drawings of trees that are not trees but a display of horrors that threaten us all with a daughter in our face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78349	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Beljak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78350	Thank you very much. I believe the injured Rules of Procedure are Article 238. Mrs. Jeckov spoke nicely and well, all of which I sign, she only made a mistake in what she said about not acting in power. She's the government, she's the ruling majority and she just raised her hand for the new ministers. So she's power and a little hypocritical sounds her speech at a time when even though I'm signing all this she was saying, when they are, or a minority club, and especially the SDSS, part of the ruling majority. I'm sorry, but it's just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78351	I'm sorry, but what you're saying right now has absolutely nothing to do with the point you cited or the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78352	I'm sorry, Mr. Bully told me you could do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78353	What he told you, I don't know, but you're getting a warning because you abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78354	And we're going to the last debate. Dear colleague Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78355	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I am reporting on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club on the occasion of the unusual and dangerous appearance of former journalist Igor Vukic at the public service of HRT on the Good morning or Good Day in which he denied the crime of genocide and the crime of the Holocaust and the fact that Jasenovac was a death camp in 1941-1945, denying even the minimal data collected by the names of the victims slightly more than 80 thousand and denying the fact that there was killed or tired in the circumstances that killed 20 thousand or more than 20,000 children for children. Croatian laws are clear in this regard. Article 325, the Head of Public Encouragement to Violence and Hate of the Penal Code says: Whoever denies and significantly reduces the crime of genocide, crime, aggression, crimes against humanity or war crimes directed towards a group of people or a member of a group because of their racial, religious, national or ethnic origin, origin or color of the skin in a way that is... To promote violence or hatred against such a group or members of that group will be punished for up to three years in prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does the public service of HRT do? It is being fenced, not even condemned, but being fenced by the steps and by the fact that the HRT as a public service gives space to someone who is a certified denier, a negator of the crimes of genocide, a holocaust towards the Roma, Jews, Serbs and war crimes against Croats who were unsuitable for the then Ustasha regime. And what should we do as a Parliament in such a case? What do we do in cases where more and more maha take these kinds of thesis and these kinds of attitudes and try to suppress the truths that have been established, the facts that are internationally known by those, that, some here wave their heads that they are not, are all invented by Serbs, those in the holocaust at the museum in Washington or... in Israel. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if someone accidentally touched the numbers from this war, you'd be digging his eyes out. You're rightly sensitive to that no matter how it was... Because crimes were committed and often innocent people were killed, prisoners, civilians and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, that's your brother. You are more like him by your speech and by what you say. It's not you, it's not him, and in particular, don't answer this question. Have the dignity to listen when it comes to this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78356	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's not win, let the speaker go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78357	Have the dignity to listen when it comes to this subject, and who not because of those who have been killed, then because of the future of this nation, but you do not have that dignity and that moral minimum. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78358	My colleague Culej, my colleague Culej... Comrade Culey, I beg you leave the speaker to speak, anyone here can speak what he thinks should be said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you have the right to speak, and no one takes away your word, and so does a fellow Pope have the right to speak. I'm asking you to control yourselves, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78359	Well. ... It is extremely worrying how many competent institutions, which are in charge of law enforcement, do not enforce the law, as is the case with this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is even more worrying, if some institutions have been in general, who will be hosting the show and not the institutions within the HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78360	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, please, allow each speaker to present his observations in five minutes as provided for by our Rules of Procedure. It is a democratic right for everyone to express their views, there are mechanisms, there are institutes that we can say within the Parliament what we think, but I ask you not to interrupt others, not to throw us out of the bench and not to violate the democratic atmosphere and character that we have here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78361	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We'll start with today's work, and normally, it'll be the first position on behalf of the club. The first reported on behalf of the GLAS Club of Representatives, excuse me, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, respected representative Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78362	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. First, I want to congratulate the team on its results and success. As the football trip to Russia continues, success can be even greater. Secondly, he would visit today, that today, when we remember Serbs from Croatia, the great man and scientists, the citizen of the world, today is the 10th national day of Nikola Tesla, day, science and technology and innovation. Although he would like to say a few words to Nikola Tesla, who was born today 162 years ago in our relationship with him, his legacy, or his availability. The energy in Croatia, in the villages, waiting for the light of the electrification that has finally begun, I did not choose to talk about it today, about this topic. I did not ask to talk about Tesla, but about agricultural land, about this important and valuable natural resource, whose availability is regulated by the new Agricultural Land Act, which I am actually expecting in practice these days. At the beginning of the year, the agriculture minister announced the law that it was a historical law, which for the first time gives all agricultural land to family farms and small micro-enterprises dealing with agriculture. We are now waiting to see this application in practice, especially waiting for farmers in Trpinja, where I was this weekend, listening to their problems, we are waiting for representatives here in the Croatian Parliament, to see how this announcement is actually realized. But I'm not talking about the situation in Trpinja right now, I'm talking about the agricultural land and the situation in the Krbavi field, in the Udbin municipality. It is about the problems of usurping private agricultural land and taking incentives from other people's agriculture land, it is about uncontrollable keeping of cattle, fearing, and physical attacks on the inhabitants of the village under Lapač, Sraskov village, Krbave, Tolic, Mekar and Shalamunic. These shops are made by individuals who own cattle, whose horses, cows, and sheep destroy other people's gardens, other people's crops, fences, and break the borders. It's about individuals who don't respect other people's property or regulations. They don't respect the law or the customs of the village. They don't respect property, they don't respect property. They know and respect only the law of power and the law stronger. And now what's been chosen by force is trying to legalise and to collect the incentive, without the pedals of his country, without the pedals of a foreign private country with a legal lease contract, with a little state country with valid contracts, and with a lot more surfaces of a state country without any contract. By enrolling private agricultural land in the register, in an ark based on which they are being paid to encourage private land, mostly Serbs living in the municipality of Udbin or those Serbs who are around the world, as well as their neighbours of Croats, because they also want to achieve material benefits, that these people, the owners of the land, have no use. The Udbin municipality reacted, their chief and deputy chief addressed all institutions, informed both the county and the ministry and the competent agency, we were informed by lawmakers. It is up to us representatives to react and ask ourselves whose interest it is, who is it in the interest of? I'm asking for an end to such a bang, I'm asking for an end to the archod without a legal basis, and for all the countries, all the particles, which have no legal basis, which have no registers, which have no ownership papers, which have no legal basis, and therefore for the paper of cadastres that don't have lease contracts with either the state, or with natural persons, because it's thousands of particles, thousands of hectares. We are not the wild west and there is no landowner, every particle in the Republic of Croatia has its own owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78363	Thank you. And now we're going to move to a position on behalf of the club and the first one on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club will speak to the respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78365	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I consider it necessary to get to know the public and warn those in charge of the problems that arise, so they already appear in the implementation of the new Agricultural Land Act. I still hear the words of the Minister of Agriculture when he spoke of the new Agricultural Land Act as a law that will put the OPGs and young farmers first. However, yes, there are those who are masters of skillfully bypassing the law or finding a blunt in it and bypassing agricultural producers, the municipality council of the Municipality of Trpinj, whose territory extends to about 3700 ha of state agricultural land, which is otherwise of great interest. For almost a month outside the deadline, this municipal council brings a programme of agricultural land, but breaking the deadline, the legal deadline is not the only illogicality of this programme. Instead of previously agreed or previously agreed with local agricultural producers, 20 ha of the maximum area that an individual entity can rent, it accepts, in turn, the proposal of Vukovar's Vupik to increase the lease by no less than 2000 ha and thus, of course, create the assumption that all 2000 ha belongs to Vupika and that the OPGs, 70 of them in the VAT system and 30 other agricultural producers get nothing. This decision was opposed by the SDSS councils and local agricultural producers and was positively declared by municipal council council members, at the same time by Vupik employees who believe that they are in conflict of interest when deciding on the complaint in which they are employed. In order for the picture to be clearer, it is necessary to point out that Vupik is temporarily processed at the age of 50 and if we get another 2,000 ha, that is over 90% of the total agricultural land owned by the state. We now have a situation that, despite the fundamental intensity of this law by implementing this decision, the OPGs in the municipality of Trpinj remain without the possibility of obtaining land on the basis of such a programme of availability. I point out that it is necessary to come to a fair and fair agreement or legal solution that will ensure the continuation of Vupik's agricultural production, as well as to provide farmers with the opportunity to get the land they will process. It's very hard for me to talk like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78366	Yeah, I'm asking you to keep your voice down so that a colleague can speak in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78367	That is exactly the kind of agreement that should be a framework for calling competitions and certainly not a framework burdened with threats, blackmails, demonstrations of force large over small ones. In the people often when fighting over land can hear the expression... full of mouth but until this happens, that mouth should be fed and thus other than food produced on agricultural land preferably in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, preferably food produced by our domestic farmers on agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, not Ireland or England, to which such and similar decisions will be driven by agricultural producers. These and similar decisions are not and certainly cannot be a good demographic policy, so we strongly oppose these decisions. We did not forget the contaminated agricultural land distribution process in the municipality of Trpinj, which took place 7, 8 years ago when under suspicious circumstances a very similar decision was voted upon. We therefore call on all interested actors of this complex process to refrain from needless demonstration of force and find a legal solution that will give farmers the opportunity to acquire the land they need in order to produce and develop and ultimately stay alive in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u78368	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82550	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] So, we are going with a united debate, two points: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2016, - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2017 The applicant is the Ombudsman for children, based on Article 18. The Law on the Ombudsman for children was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. I would now ask the applicant to give us an additional explanation, the esteemed Helena Pirant-Dragičević, counsel for the children, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82551	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives, I will present the 2016 and 2017 reports on the work of the Advocate General's Office for Children today. In both reports, it is in fact to give an overview of the topics that the Office has dealt with, the type of applications that are received, the description of meetings with children, visits of institutions and other places to stay, and the review of legislative initiatives that are taking place. The report also gives insight into the state of children's rights in Croatia, from the point of view of children's defenders, reviews and views based on daily applications, meetings, conversations with children and their parents, cooperation with institutions, local community, civil society organisation and others. It should also be noted that certain findings in the report have changed somewhat with regard to the time-consuming period. The 2016 work report refers primarily to the mandate of former Ombudsman, professor Ivana Milas Klaric, based on individual infringements of children's rights, which were addressed by the Office that year. There are 1876 reports of suspicions of violation of children's rights, and this number includes cases from previous years. 1558 new applications were received in 2016. Individual applications, similar to previous years, were the most relevant to issues in parental care, then infringements of education rights, protection of children from abuse of neglect, and violation of health rights. A little less represented were applications from the field of judicial rights, social care, cultural rights and the right to participate. In addition to cases of individual rights, the Ombudsman acted in 956 general initiatives for the protection of children's rights and other activities in 2016, participated in the adoption of 21 regulations, which concerned children's rights, giving proposals, opinions and initiatives. During 2016 59 general recommendations aimed at improving the protection of children's rights were addressed. The Ombudsman also advocated the rights of children at expert meetings and conferences, as well as public and media statements, by showing that cooperation with the media has proved to be an opportunity to influence the development and awareness of children's rights. During 2016, intensive and quality international cooperation, organisations and households of a large international COUP, a network of organisations and institutions dealing with child protection, whose parents are in prison, were also marked. In terms of strengthening the continuation of international cooperation, the Ombudsman, with her co-workers and during this reporting period, actively participated and represented the Republic of Croatia within the framework of the European Network of Advocates for Children, the Network of Advocates for Children of Southeast Europe, as well as at a number of other international conferences and meetings. During 2016 research on the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia was continued in various areas. Also during that year, it was an active network of young advisers, which was marked by the creation and well-median follow-up to the promotion of MMS strategies against peer violence, titled “Stop the silence that hurts” by children themselves, and the strategy refers to combating and protecting against primary psychological violence, isolation and exclusion among children. So, violence, which the children recognized as all present and insufficiently aware of in society. The 2016 reporting period was also marked by large migrations, conditioned by events in part of Europe and the world reflected in the territory of Croatia, requiring the protection of children and the activities of the Ombudsman for children. In doing so, special attention is paid to monitoring and protecting the rights of children in the movement, children without escort, as particularly vulnerable groups of children. Visiting the institution where the children are located, talking to experts, who are engaged in their acceptance, and representatives of civil society organisations and other stakeholders, who deal with this problem, the Ombudsman then observed problems related to reception, assistance, child protection lack of specialised capacity, custody problems and the lack of translators. Furthermore, as regards violence, violence against children, it is present in all segments of society, children are exposed to violence, family, school, street, media, are threatened by adults, but also their peers, and forms of violence are the most diverse that has been shown through complaints received by the office. Multi-annual investment in the establishment of better quality rules in line with international documents except in the area of the internet which shows an insufficient normative framework for the protection of children against violence indicates a clear view of society on the non-acceptability of any violence against children, including physical punishment for the purpose of discipline. However, practice shows that the laws themselves are not sufficient if the conditions for their implementation are not ensured. One of the key starting points in the effective fight against violence against children is the employment of enough experts who are highly educated, sensitive to the recognition of violence and to take appropriate action to protect a child who suffers and/or commits violence. In addition to reactive treatment, it is necessary and continuous to carry out educational campaigns and preventive activities for adults and children in order to raise awareness of the dangers of violence and to teach children only to protect themselves. Compared to 2017 it is 15 reports sent to the Croatian Parliament for the year. What is significant is that the work of the office was marked by the status changes made by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision to repeal the Law on Advocates for Children of 2003. In July 2017, a new Law on the Ombudsman for Children was adopted, whereby the Ombudsman remained an independent and specialised institution for the protection and promotion of children's rights as a particularly sensitive group of citizens. In the second half of November, the decision of the Croatian Parliament appointed a new Ombudsman for children, so I have been acting on this duty since 17 November, so this report refers to the activities of the Office of the Advocates for Children during the term of office of Ms. Ivana Milas Klaric, who acted until November 17th and me who acted from then until the end of calendar 2017. What is important to stress is that the office maintains the continuity of the work of a multidisciplinary team of experts who is employed there from the establishment itself. In 2017 2502 new items were opened, so we again have 1573 applications relating to the violation of individual rights of children and 929 general initiatives of the office. Applications include, or refer to, 1893 children and 255 groups of children. Most of the problems have been identified, the most reported concerns related to issues related to parental care, the second is the violation of educational rights, the third is the application for the protection of children from violence and neglect, and there are also a number of applications relating to the application of children's health rights. It should also be said that more than 2,000 counselling and guidance to parties regarding the protection of children's rights has been achieved in direct contact with the offices or telephones. During that year, 59 general recommendations aimed at improving the protection of children's rights in Croatia were also addressed, and 24 institutions and places where children are staying were visited. If, therefore, we go from violation of individual rights, the most frequently reported ones are individuals who referred to children’s rights to life with parents and parental care. What was observed during 2017 is the continued weak protection of children who are faced with a high conflict divorce of marriage and the interruption of the extramarital parent community. The main problem is that parents fail to agree on further parental care for children because of the high level of their mutual conflict, and they often transfer this responsibility to their former partner, and some of them expect solutions that will be in line with their wishes. When it's not like that, they file a complaint. We must stress that they have been observed through cases of very frequent parental manipulative behavior with the aim of alienating the child from another parent in a wide variety of ways. Despite the efforts made by competent institutions to improve the situation of children in such a crisis, I would say to them situations, therefore in situations where children are uncontested and uncontested for them, the situation of children is still making it difficult for experts or their overload and lack of education and, consequently, the slowness in decision-making. The second place, as I have already said in the number of applications received, refers to weaknesses in the achievement of children's educational rights. There was an unequal availability of education, the involvement of children with developmental difficulties, unequal spatial security and organisational conditions, which is particularly unfavourable for children in certain parts of the country, so in those isolated areas of the state. Unfortunately, many applications refer to the illegal and incompetent treatment of some educational professionals towards children, which certainly points to the necessity of establishing a system for checking the work of educational professionals to enable periodic checks on their ability to work with children. And that was also a recommendation from the attorney general's office for the children. The third area is children's rights to protection against violence, neglect, physical punishment in families, institutions and elsewhere. An increase in violence associated with modern technology has been observed, which is precisely what points to the need for enhanced preventive action in the area. It is indicated that children and adults need to be instructed to protect children on the Internet and to provide systematic support to parents to meet new educational challenges in which we see a particularly important role in the education system. Furthermore, during 2017, reports related to the violation of children's health rights and still a large number of these applications were related to the refusal of parents to vaccinate children, and further recommended that quality and full information should be given to parents on vaccination and public awareness of the benefits of vaccination, with pediatricians, family doctors, experts from the Public Health Office. Working on cases relating to the violation of this child's right, problems of insufficient number of health professionals, difficulties in access to healthcare in certain parts of the country, conditions of treatment for children suffering from severe diseases and insufficient care for mental health of children have been observed. In addition to working on individual cases relating to child rights violations, what is important for 2017 is that a new study called Participation of Children in the Education and Education System has been launched in the office. During 2017, part of the pilot project was carried out, and the research continues in this year 2018. The goal is to come up with an understanding of the extent to which children participate in the decision-making processes involved, especially at school and how generally they are involved as initiative holders and active participants in the life and work of their school. It is precisely this right that is one of the rights which has also been found to be very often violated, that is, the right of children to participate, that is, participation. These areas of the most frequent violations of children's rights point to priorities in the activities of all institutions dealing with child protection, of course inescapable, and that is to re-emerge and poverty as a global and local problem that threatens the many rights of children and robs them of childhood. Both reports, i.e. through both reporting periods, have seen the problem of inequality of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, particularly given their economic strength, which consequently affects the scope and content of services for children. Children are not provided with equal opportunities, they are not given an equal starting position in education, access to different health services, but also in the quality of leisure time. These are just some of the problems identified in the reports and which require the attention of all of us and point to priorities in the activities of all institutions, institutions, experts in child protection. These reports should serve as a basis for improving the conditions for better living of children in Croatia. In order to achieve the promotion and improvement of the position and rights of children in Croatia, it is necessary to engage all institutions and institutions, i.e. societies dealing with children, but also all members of society, that is, all of us who can contribute in their own way to solving existing problems. Thank you, that would be compared to both reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82552	Thank you. Let's go now, you have six replicas. Take your seats. The first one's a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82553	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. The Honorable Madam Advocate, in the 2016 and 2017 report, is one finding, it is about adopted children and it is a conclusion that there have been a lot of complaints about the violation of the right to the protection of personal data and the privacy of adopted children. Since we went to a parliamentary debate, that is, with an initiative related to the OIB and the OIB problem and adopted children, and in the debate it was specifically referred to your position that I cannot quote until the end of the sentence that was, but that the opinion of the Ombudsman for children's rights is that it can be resolved in some other way or other. Now I am interested, given that the 2016 and 2017 report says that people complain that there is a problem, how do you stand at all, and what do you think about 1100 children, adopted children in Croatia have this problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82554	Thank you. The esteemed attorney, therefore you can respond to the replica, you have one minute each time or a united answer after the debate, as you wish. So it's the first time, so I'm just giving a note. Here she is. You need to get up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82555	Thank you for asking. So that's the problem here and I've already met now during my work. The office is in 2016-2017 and is now absolutely in favour of solving this, I would say problems related to the change of OIB of adopted children. In fact, we stand for it, therefore, absolutely in any way we need to solve this problem. What the Office finds, or how we view it, is that this will be increasingly addressed through the Family Law. Therefore, if the resolution through the amendment of the OIB Act were not to be comprehensive. So it would be necessary in any novel of the existing Family Law, either by the new Family Law, to solve it entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82556	Thank you. Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82557	Your Honorary Attorney, you have spoken here of reports which you have actually given mainly for your predecessor, Mrs. Milas-Klaric, who, you have never once mentioned that her report had not been adopted and that her work had continued and after her report had been rejected, so I would like to have heard from you here a little more criticism about her work because this home here, these people have concluded that her work is not good. So it's not good, so I'm sorry you didn't point that out anywhere. So her previous report didn't accept this home, so I'd like to hear a little more criticism about her work in these subsequent reports, and I haven't heard that. Any comment on this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82558	Thank you. Here you go. Okay, then let's move on. Dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82559	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. On the contrary, I am sorry that the government has proposed this formulation to take note that the report will not be accepted because it would be in your favor because the Ombudsman must be independent if we want to. And most people have made such a decision and it's not good, that most people make decisions. Always those concerned with the minority, in this case children's rights believe that children who are threatened fall into a minority. And I'd like to give you some advice, if that's possible. To initiate the initiative that we have here until the next report, here we have to help you, we have to have an insight into the children's budget, to see how much this society is giving to children. It's now by various ministries, various institutions, and at this point we don't know. I believe if we had that information so everyone would wonder if we were doing all right. I wish you a lot of success in your work, but on the contrary, what my colleague Zekanovic said, let it be independent work and don't spare anyone when it comes to children's rights, there are no exceptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82560	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Then we'll go to the fourth line. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82561	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to take the opportunity to discuss these two reports to draw attention to the criticism we have received from the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, who has resented the fact that, without any reasonable reason, the predecessor, Ms Ivana Milas-Klaric, has been removed and disabled in the completion of her term of office. So it was definitely a pressure on the independence of this body, which is not good. It is not good because it is such a blow to independence and a commission to prevent conflicts of interest, where Mrs Dalia Oreskovic was, shows that ruling wants to have independent bodies under her control that are key to quality work in the Republic of Croatia, as we are told from the Council of Europe. I wish the lady a lot of success in her work and I invite her not to be afraid, especially of these outbursts in the Parliament as we have just heard from her colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82562	Okay. Let's move on. Dear colleague Marko Vučetić, please. Wait a minute, colleague Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82563	Dear President of the Parliament. A colleague of the standard insults and this time has been violated by an art. 236, section 4, demeans fellow MPs. I don't know what kind of outbursts it is. When he speaks, it's all normal, and others are characterized by outbursts. I think every speech of yours is exactly what you've characterized mine and try to end up civilized speaking...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82564	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zekanovic, please, and a colleague of Jovanovic. You're all awfully thin. You're very rude to others, and then when someone calls you, you pick up that plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure. We have some standard discussion. I mean, we can't expect to just be complimented right now, so please don't raise my plate for this kind of reason, it's not the best statement, but it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because you can give up the debate now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82565	Here's an injury. In 238, he has now injured the Rules of Procedure, and in his statement, he said that the parliament estimated that Mrs. Milas-Klaric had done bad work. That's not true, that's a lie. It's never been said, and it's nowhere to be concluded.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82566	Okay. This isn't even a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you, I'm going to start giving warnings, it's also an obligation under the Rules of Procedure, and don't abuse that institute. Let's move on. Dear colleague Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82567	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honorary Attorney, what we met today is a violation of children's rights. This is more important than the violation of any Rules of Procedure and anything that happens in the adult world because the adult world is showing us here as a world that threatens children's rights and these rights are also threatened by those who should be educated to prevent peer violence and to manage to mediate those models, those norms and those knowledge that will lead them to responsible people who will not deal with themselves but who will build the world. In this report, I have therefore noticed that it is extremely warning that we have incompetent teachers who are unable to respond to an enormous growing problem, which is among peer violence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82568	Thank you. And let's go to the last line, dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82569	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would have started specifically, in 2007 then the Ombudsman for children made a recommendation for the establishment of a children's child protection clinic in Split. Nothing has happened since then. We have dozens of similar recommendations from the Ombudsman for children, who remain unfulfilled or ignored by institutions, which directly endangers the life and health of children in the field of parental care, endangers their health, the exercise of rights and social care, housing and education. Question, I have two questions, one question for the government of the Republic of Croatia, and another question for the Ombudsman for the children. Why is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its statement to the Ombudsman's report for children, often using expressions, that the Advocate General's opinion is incorrect, that it does not have quality information, that everything is fine, with all areas of child protection in Croatia. By humiliating the Ombudsman for children, he also humiliates the Croatian Parliament as the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82570	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. So now we'd be up to the board, any of the committees who discussed it come forward? No, I don't. Then he would ask a representative of the government, respected Margaret Mađeric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography of the Family, Youth and Social Policy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82571	... The Croatian Parliament addressed the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2016 and 2017 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, reports on the work of the Ombudsman for children in order to give an opinion on the report on the work of the Ombudsman. [[Specially enabled.]] These reports show the activities of the Advocate General's Office for Children, 2016 and 2017, as well as the content of the whole in areas related to the monitoring of individual areas of children's rights, a network of young advisers and children's participation, isolated areas of protection of children's rights, recommendations from the Ombudsman for children, normative activities, research activities, visits to institutions for children and other places, other activities related to the protection and promotion of children's rights, meetings, conversations and cooperation with children, international cooperation, other activities of regional and central bodies, and the establishment and financial business. The competent authorities have provided an indication of the reports in question, and based on these indications, the competent authorities, the ministries, the Central State Sport Office and the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you have received in your materials and, if there are any questions, proposals or ambiguities, I am at the disposal of all proposals and questions and answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82572	I thank the secretary of state. We have one replica, dear colleague Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82573	I would just like to update, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in its indication of the Ombudsman's report for children, is often using expressions that the Ombudsman's opinion is incorrect, that it does not have quality information and that everything is fine, then I guess with areas of child protection in Croatia. Humiliation of the Ombudsman for children, the Croatian Parliament is also humiliated, as the representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that we need a new Law on Defence, where the powers of the Ombudsman will be stronger and will be focused on active protection of the rights and interests of children, not on correspondence between institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82574	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82575	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, as I pointed out, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up opinions on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children and for 2016 and for 2017 on the basis of the opinion of the relevant ministries. Opinions were also made by the Ministry of Demography of the Family, Youth and Social Policy, Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Administration, the Central State Office for Sport and the Office for Drugs Management. On the basis of this, we have drawn up an opinion on all the recommendations and proposals that we have seen in the Ombudsman's report for children, and certainly that we need each other's cooperation, all the competent authorities, institutions and lawyers, in order for the position of children in the Republic of Croatia to be at the level at which, of course, we are in the best interest of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82576	Thank you. Now I'm opening a debate, we're moving on to a club debate, first in line is a club representative of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, a respected colleague of Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82577	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys, representatives of the Government, today we have two reports from the Ombudsman for children, one for 2016 and one for 2017, here are these reports. It is interesting to note that this 2016 report has 31 pages. and this second one for 2017 has 231 p. So it's much more extensive. And although all quantity is not a guarantee and quality, this is a second report. From 2017 is better, more content and allows for deeper insight. On the other hand, it seems that the new counselor for the children has done well. Childcare should be a priority to every society, because children are our future, children are unscathed creatures, who have dreams, who trust people, trust the system, institutions. Breaking down children's ideals is a serious anomaly of society, and we can freely say crime with inexplicable consequences. Many of the evils committed by adults are rooted in childhood traumas, so society's responsibility is greater. In Croatia children suffer a number of damages as we see in the reports, and one of them, which is quite accurate, is one of the most severe, child poverty. Poverty affects children's health, their education, their play, leisure and generally n socialization. After child poverty, Croatia is among the worst EU members, especially after long-term poverty. We from the Living Wall in the past 18 months, 18, how long this Parliament's council's council has been convened, we have tried countless times to warn of the causes of poverty, the Implementing Law, the poor economic and social policy, monetary and fiscal policy, the problem of corruption and justice. We have repeatedly warned here in Parliament that the studies of the Economic Institute that show that 1/5 children in Croatia are poor. That children often do not only have allowance, they do not even have a bed, they do not have food, they do not have clothes, so they do not have the most basic existential conditions for some peaceful childhood. The ruling majority never wanted to hear what we had to say, all of our proposals were being rejected and at least they were doing something. Here is today on the parliamentary committees, the ruling majority refused our Law on Temporary Child Support although it costs only 18 million kunas, so they did not accept it which is very regrettable because we see, for example, that it is only one week's worth of consultants in Agrokor but there is, for them, no children. There are often cases of violence against children, including physical violence. The report also shows that children suffer violence on different grounds, e.g. on a national basis, by religious basis, by gender, by disability, by social status. Violence even occurs in educational institutions and especially on the way to school, say on the bus or in the accompanying content, e.g. at school playgrounds. A special case represents increasing violence on the Internet. Unfortunately, children are exposed to inappropriate advertising on a daily basis, e.g. Alcohol drink producers usually put their jumbo posters next to schools, here we have cases in Varazdin, quite concrete I got the other day, so when a beer is to be advertised, then it's best to put past the classroom window that young people are subconsciously preparing for future addiction. We also have inappropriate advertising on television and especially on the Internet, where gambling, pornography, violence, regardless of what content they watch, so even those content that are for children, you always have next to the main page, you have so-called. windows, so-called banners that you can deliberately or accidentally squeeze and automatically come to unwanted content. Unfortunately, there are more and more such content directly in those programmes offered to children, e.g. in cartoons or in so-called films for children where murderers, different psychopaths, sexualized etc. also appear increasingly. We read unfortunately in increasingly frequent cases of murder committed by young people under the influence of video games. So we have people who simply became addicts to the extent that this virtual world is trying to transfer to reality. Last year, more than once in 2017, news was published in the media that a video game called Blue Kit directly encourages children to commit suicide. We have a case that, say, Matthew Schustek of Nash killed a 17-year-old girl because, in his own words, he was forced to do it by the character from the video game Big Car theft. We also know that there have been suicides which unfortunately have been caused by social networks, violence on Facebook, Whatsapp and other computer content, and we in Croatia have to wonder if the government has ever taken any concrete action on this issue, in the end whether one of these pages has tried to block, whether it has tried to check whether young people have the right to access such sites at all, etc. It is particularly difficult to protect children from pedophilia, which deals with this report on page 7. And the attorney general's conclusion is defeating, so I'd sketch it here for a while. Listen well now, so we're talking pedophile. The lawyer’s conclusion is: “Croatia has not built a quality and efficient child protection system against sexual abuse and exploitation. A system of support for victims of sexual violence is missing in order to provide timely assistance to negotiate treatment to help overcome traumatic experiences. The justice system is not tailored to victims' children and potentially endangers the child from re-traumaticisation. The case-law is unequal to both the treatment of the victim in proceedings and the punishment of the perpetrator of sexual violence against the child. There is insufficient prevention, education and a superior vision of experts. No quality surveillance of the perpetrators has been established under a sustained sentence. Prevention programs are poorly organised and when they are, they are not available to their children under equal conditions." So this is literally devastating, defeating. This is, I would dare say, a catastrophic report upon which every parliamentary representative should be deeply pictured and concerned and only now can I ask here if anyone cares about this and this report? See here now some read the newspaper, review the portals on their phones, read only the newspaper headlines of the last few days. The teacher of pedophile works at three schools, the head of the Anti-Pedophilia Association is a convicted pedophile, so how is it possible that no institutions react? Look, unfortunately, we even have cases of pedophile in the clergy, where there should be some sort of superior morale, some kind of character behavior we have severe cases of pedophilia that no one sanctions. The head of the parish court in Sibenik abused three boys, committed nine crimes arrested and released, a Spliti friar abused the boys released. I can't do anything to him because she's out of date. The priest Nedjeljko Jovanovic has abused children for 20 years not a day in prison, he is punished by being retired. A priest from Slavonia for raping a child was punished by working for the greater good. Priest Drago Ljubic has two years in prison for molesting five children. Priest Young Skin for collecting pornography, watch out for the baby, a couple of months in prison. Is that normal? We have a rape case, though not a priest, but a minor for ten years was needed for a first-degree sentence. For those cases that end up in court, and we know that in a court of law, only a small number of such cases could be assumed by 5%, 50% of the offenders are legally sentenced to parole. Those who are convicted are sentenced to minimum punishment, so if the sentence is one to five years old they will always be sentenced to one, and rarely or almost never to five years. To make things worse pedophiles after a sustained sentence, they return to the scene of the crime, they return to the neighborhood in the street where that crime was committed and they traumatize their victims when they must meet them on the street, with the possibility of course reciting, and the surveillance is very weak. We have cases of pedophilia in schools, in doctor's offices, but you can't get these people out of the system because they're being protected by so-called. protects them from legislation in working relationships where they can press charges against their employers and then simply leave them on the job and they continue to carry out their move to generally harass victims and those people who know about it through informal channels. It sounds amazing that in Croatia, according to official statistics, 25% of children are sexually abused, each fourth child. That we have cases of the closest relatives harassing their children, relatives, or worse even their children and grandchildren. And in society we've heard I repeat again in this attorney's report, there's no prevention, there's no education, there's no experts, there's no supervisory, and then in the end there's no criminal responsibility. We do have a case, however, that led the child's attorney to say that two girls reported their father to be sexually abused so that the State's Attorney's office would press charges against them afterwards. Look out, the State's Attorney's office has filed a complaint against two girls. So what's not absurd, what's not sad? So you're giving me what they are, how much you have to be a monster that sexually abuses some girl's child's father and then still the state's attorney haunts those girls. Is that the society we live in? What is the media's responsibility for such things? They also have a whole series of inappropriate advertising in people's lowest passions, you read every day in the media how teenagers in the Netherlands sleep with strangers for one ice cream, how graduates in Sweden, the Norwegian orgy when they receive diplomas, how grandma fell in love with her 17-year-old grandson, so it's wonderful to them, even having surrogate motherhood. And then they let under such articles as sharks collect pedophiles and encourage each other and what's worst of all that they try to change public opinion, try to convince people that it's normal behavior, that it should be tolerated, that everyone does that, that children are sexual beings. Is that normal? I accept that you attorneys mentioned the role of the media in this whole problem, but you mentioned in five, six sentences on a report that has 231 pages. Why today, on committees dealing with this problem, no single medium was present, no single medium, they are not interested in the prosecutor's report for children. And you're right when you point out and you've made it hard for journalists among other things to break their own code of honor and violate recommendations for the protection of children's rights and the safe use of electronic media. Therefore, I call on Parliament's representatives to take this issue very seriously and hope that all representatives' clubs will eventually come out with their proposals in particular legislative proposals to protect children from any possible type of violence, and we from the Living Wall will accept this report because it gives hope that some concrete results will come in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82578	Thank you, too. Let's move on. In front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ms. Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82579	Thank you, dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for the children of Mrs Pirnat-Dragičević, the respected State Secretary Mađeric, respected Deputy Gableice with a co-worker, here is a respected colleague and colleague. We know that neglect and violence go hand in hand and we see that these extensive reports have strengthened both. I will not talk too much about the work of the office because it has already been said and we have had opportunities to read these reports during this period of time. It's more important to talk about removing the problems this office needs to deal with. But a little while ago, something surprised me, although nothing can surprise us anymore, this appeal to move this point out of the agenda and to put it later because we have something more important now is actually sent me a message here from this assembly again, because it's really sad that on topics concerning children, first we wait for a year, two or more, not to say a few years, and then when these topics finally come to the agenda as reports for 2017 and 2016 in mid- 2018, individuals from the opposition and then minorize these topics and I personally find it a matter of political indifference for this topic. It turns out that politics is really a cruel activity that has no understanding of all topics, but only those that are interesting to individuals. 'Cause I'd say it won't be much of a so-called. Big guys deal with children's rights or fighting violence or cyber bulling or abuse don't give God at all, because you see colleagues, and you wouldn't believe some people are just as interested in children's rights and all that I've listed, as well as some other topics that are so-called. A more powerful topic. And I'm not diminishing the importance of these topics that are now current. And that doesn't mean that we're here now that we're present in the assembly maybe weak, soft or uninterested in the economy or some other important topic, that means exactly the opposite. The fact that we're here now is that we're aware of the importance of this topic. Now to return to this report, this report cited the most important weak points in the opinion of the Ombudsman and, in the opinion of the current prosecutor, and we heard that the government gave its opinions by reading the government's reports, in part, agreeing that they are in disseminating somewhere, but in many areas there is still a need to make a lot of efforts both institutional and professional and personal enthusiasm if you want to, to bring the situation to the desired level. And what I will single out in my personal opinion as still disputed, and we see it increasingly and cruelly violently. And violence in all forms of phenomenon in our society, from physical accounting in the yard of school or in parking to cyber bulling, to psychological abuse of children who are and what is worse in some sensitive phase of life or are more vulnerable than non-empathic peers. We had a chance to see a case recently that personally disgusted me, such cyber violence against a little girl who had lost her parents. And that level of unempathy and cold-bloodedness in children, her peers are very worrying and we all need to take this seriously. And it's one of the phenomena dealing with this report, not specifically this phenomenon, but this topic and this phenomenon and this topic is the subject of various reports, including the law, and even documents, but none of these documents can correct, nor replace education or here might be better to say some lack of quality education. And we can deny as much as we want, but we live in the Fourth Industrial Revolution and that's a fact. Everything is fast, life itself is accelerated, we eat fast, and we even read fast and unfortunately our parents even if they want to, they don't have enough time, or they have less time to do quality work with children, and children are unfortunately often left alone or alone, or what is even worse with various influences, media, social networks, youtube channels, and on such media situations as head-cutting, rape, beating to death and all other indescribable types of violence and abuse is something that is lazier, something that some like, something that is considered fun to look at. And if no child in that sensitive childhood in front of puberty, puberty, and before that does not explain that it is not an acceptable pattern of behavior, does not explain that it is neither likable, nor cool, nor fun, nor acceptable, if this child, I say, does not return to some normal healthy colossium, then I fear it will be late and that after some time and that child, which we see from these situations, will become just a non-empathic person, a bully or have some other deviant kind of behavior. The institutions as an attorney's office for children are there to indicate, to warn, to draw attention, but in fact objectively speaking, they, neither the institution of the prosecutor for children has so many powers, nor the possibility to prevent these phenomena, to prevent all violence, nor to punish violence. That's what we know, that's our legislative framework, and besides, it's the work of the Advocate's Office for Children, because it stems from these legal powers. But their role, therefore, and the Attorney General's Office for Children is, if not the most, mostly preventive. Preventive, therefore, just an indication, a warning, a distraction and that's where they can give and where the attorney and her office of interdisciplinary professionals can certainly contribute and I hope they will contribute. And we from this pay phone, we can and should keep sending clear messages, that as part of society, we can certainly make a contribution, that our behavior affects as little of these phenomena as possible, because it depends on us in part, that children, or future generations, will also take advantage of events and people with whom they are together in the same environment. We must not forget, and this is mentioned in these reports, that the role of parents, guardians, guardians in the process of raising children is irreplaceable, crucial. Of course, it's a foundation, and everything else is an upgrade, add-on. And I personally view this report as a list of recommendations, case problems, but also a list of wishes, so it would be desirable, if the irregularities that have been seen and are well argued in the reports, until the following reports at least try to correct it, it would be desirable, and it would be ideal for the media, institutions and parents who have not yet come to the sense that their impact, its capabilities, their reach can be much more positive and thus enhance what is positive, to reduce what is negative. Because it turns out that kids are the best lacmus paper that shows the reciprocity of invested and obtained. And then aware of that, let's be aware of our responsibilities, with everything else I said before and of course, the HDZ Club agreed with the government's opinion on these reports, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82580	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club, Mrs. Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82581	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Advocacy for children, distinguished secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies. In front of us is a united report for 2016, 2017 and at the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I would like to emphasise that we are talking about a particularly sensitive group of populations, about children, about their specific rights, about those we very often know to say that our future and whatever it may have become a common flossule, they really are. So, children's rights are human rights, not some minor rights, and we're talking about 20 years of practice of having children's rights as a special category of human rights. It is protected by different documents, of which most importantly is the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The report is united and we are talking about several hundred pages and it maintains and represents a complete display of work and condition, and related to various violations of children's rights, normative activities, events, description, office work and financial situation. In 2017, the year I'm going to be cornered. Based on its discussion, 2502 new items have been opened, of which 1573 reports of infringements of individual rights of children, and 929 initiatives, offices, which are every impressive number to be congratulated on. I mean to congratulate you on the initiative, not on the fact that there are violations of children's rights. Individual infringements of children's rights in 2017 included 1903 children and 255 groups. The primary job of a child's attorney is to monitor all areas of life and children's rights, sees whether better treatment can be done in the protection of children and points to irregularities, and encourages protection. This is the last thing we think of as one of the most important things that the attorney general actually does. In the largest number in 2017, parents were called, of course, characteristic that they were in a number of mother cases, only in a small number, of 43 cases actually competent institutions. In addition to parents, the report highlights the protection of children's privacy, the institution in which children stay, so schools, kindergartens, homes, we see the need for further sensitisation and education of the media and publishers of respect for children's rights to danger. A great danger of possible violations of children's rights, we see irresponsible use of the Internet, which is why it is important to educate them on the dangers and risks of establishing the necessary cooperation of institutions involved in child care. Very often written in but also in electronic media, we have the opportunity to read about the age settlement, then we're all like parents, right? appalled and worried, so we don't get the same problem. Peer violence is a mandatory problem, which commits to education, prevention and coordinated actions of parents, teacher staff and experts. But the data from the reports I'm talking about shows that schools don't have enough effective ways to prevent and combat this kind of violence. Reports also point to the frequent occurrence of psychological and verbal peer violence in the form of insult, demeaning, exclusion, rarely associated with child safety. In addition to these already known types of violence, we are increasingly faced with a particularly dangerous type of violence that takes place, which is not yet adequately sanctioned, therefore electronic violence and data suggest that there is an insufficient level of knowledge about ways to protect children on the Internet and not to manage in situations where a child is the victim of any form of virtual violence. Peer violence between children and teenagers through the Internet and mobile phones takes alarming proportions, and police data show that at least 25% of children and adolescents in Croatia were victims of such violence. In the last 2 years, police have received 2306 anonymous applications, online abuses, and this year alone has seized 2500 photos, 3000 videos and 400 gigabytes of child pornography content. Even 93% of the children surveyed have a Facebook profile, and 60% of them opened it before the age of 13, although this is opposed to the rules of the social network. Almost half the children on Facebook spend an hour, two, and every fifth child for 3 or more hours. About a fifth of children have more than one open profile, and over half of children and more than 300 friends on Facebook. Each fifth child said that several times or often received offensive messages or comments through the FB, although more than half asked the sender to stop doing so. As many as 16% of children admitted that someone broke into their profile and published unpleasant things about them, and 15% received a threat at least once through the FB. In such cases it is necessary to encourage the victim not to be silent, to confide in the adult and the consequences of this and such pressures are devastating because the victim feels helpless, lives in fear, withdraws into himself, has a bad picture of himself, feels insecure, loses confidence, tends to be depressed, often sees no way out, and even has flight cases. We often view events like this as none of our business, and that's what's wrong because they don't happen to us, but they happen around us and they change data significantly every day, violence spreads rapidly through the Internet, and the question is when will happen to you or your children. It is therefore necessary to introduce children to the dangers of using social networks and protecting them. It is important to point out, even for this speaker, that such acts are punishable under Article 178. A criminal code describing the offence of violation of the privacy of a child who may also be committed through a computer network, and prison sentences have been prescribed if such an act has caused anxiety or other damage to his well-being. Although the greatest responsibility lies with the FB itself, and responsibility is on all of us. A kind of link through social networks affects actors more than we can imagine, and the consequences are long-term, alarming, and unfortunately more and more often and tragic lately, so they should not be ignored. However, for this speaker, I have talked several times about various humanitarian actions, perhaps what is good about the Internet and social networks, so it is precisely the fact that through social networks that many valuable humanitarian actions are encouraged and that it is possible to spread information and animate more benefactors. Although in some cases in which we learn from the media, such action has ended favorably for children by allowing temporary improvements in the conditions of life, the purchase of expensive medicine, or child support, it has almost always been a child and sacrificed itself in some way, and its privacy has been sacrificed. By finishing this story on social networks, I just still want to look at one fact, which is how non-accepting diversity and the unpreparedness and inability of individual educational workers to the challenges of raising and education of children in a multicultural and pluralistic society can leave negative consequences on children and their relationship with others. Namely, I am talking about a case of discriminatory behaviour of a teacher towards students, members of a Serb national minority who are educated in minority language when a teacher is found guilty of abuse of harassment, political attitudes and discriminatory address of children. However, until the judgment of the Criminal Court becomes final, the teacher remains in session. To deal with this, according to the special group, surely this job is very responsible, demanding and specific. That is why the Institute of Child Advocates must also remain an independent and specialised institution for the protection and promotion of children's rights independent of day-to-day political turmoil, sovereign in decision-making and loud in the demands of those who, as I said at the beginning of the debate, are our future. And as long as the D.A. is loud enough and clear enough, she'll have the support of the SDSS Representatives' Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82582	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs Sabina's voter's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82583	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, respected representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is a little unserious to discuss now in 2018, here we are almost in the middle of 2018 on the report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2016. Especially in light of the circumstances that, among other things, the things they write in the report have already dropped the head of the Ombudsman, and that the report a year before that for 2015 in this Croatian Parliament has not passed, which was an indication and a serious warning that if she does not watch what she writes, what stories, which problems she warns that this Assembly and parliamentary majority could come head over. And it happened, but most of them were so impatient that they couldn't even wait to discuss or direct this procedure or be brave then the 2016 Attorney General's report on the work of 2016 that we're discussing today, so let's see what Ivana Milos Klaric actually did wrong so that she can get a vote of no confidence. But no, that was not possible, the law had to be amended and a new law was passed in order to get rid of the unsuspecting lawyers. Why am I talking about this in the introduction of a report on the protection of children's rights and the promotion of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia, everything that is a problem in Croatian society, everything that the Office of the Ombudsman warns about in everything that we should have a strong bond, working atmosphere and cooperation between the Office of the Ombudsman and the Croatian Parliament, as well as competent institutions that are there to remove obstacles to the promotion of children's rights and to strengthen all those mechanisms of protecting the rights of the same. However, I am saying this because it will not be easy to work under the conditions in which we are today. Unfortunately, here in 2016 and 2017 when we talk about some key segments of child rights protection, we see that the Office of the Advocate General considered in 2016 a total of 1876 individual infringements of the rights of children or child rights claims. In those 1876 cases from previous years were involved, 1558 new applications were slightly more than in the previous year. In 2017, the Advocate's Office submitted 1573 new cases and from year to year the Republic of Croatia faced the same or similar problems. Once again, when we compare these two reports, we can see that applications mostly referred to problems in achieving the rights of children in parental care, this is the biggest and most recent burning problem. Secondly, somehow they're a violation of education rights, that's the same thing that happens from year to year. Protecting children from violence and neglect is a third problem by frequency if we look at the number of applications or problems in the Attorney's Office, health rights, followed by children's rights in judicial proceedings, economic rights and violations of the right to privacy. All of these are actually problems that year by year and now if we took a few years in a row, I guess we'd run into the same problems, we'd encounter the same recommendations from the Attorney's Office to the state institutions how to solve these problems, but we actually see that this cooperation doesn't work. And when we see an indication of the government of the Republic of Croatia, we see a single defence letter, so they kind of see it as an attack on themselves, not as a particular alarm that should ring in their heads in their systems and that should lead to concrete solutions being offered through changes to certain laws, which through changes to certain sublegal acts. I will also look back at two key things that we have the opportunity to see in the 2017 report, these are the remarks and inclusion of the Office of the Advocate General in public consultation with the public when we talk about the Law on Education and Education where the educational authorities simply do not listen. There was a public consultation, and here I was now running here for a plenary session with the parent committee where we were just discussing the proposed law and they simply do not give up or respect the comments of the Ombudsman, and the Ombudsman for children has indicated that the Proposed Law on Education excludes the principle of promoting educational values and values based on the right of parents to decide independently on the raising of children, and in order to achieve the rights and best interests of the child, to allow their children to attend among the issues and/or interdisciplinary topics and/or modules that contribute to the achievement of the best interests and rights of the child guaranteed to the Convention on the Rights of the child. This is one of the remarks where the Ombudsman for children and the Ombudsman's Office for Children would certainly not go past the child's interest because he is concerned, among other things, about the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Rights of Children in all our documents. But no, the Ministry of Education is obviously under pressure again by some radical groups to insist on this item, regardless of the fact that the Constitution guarantees parents the right to raise their children, which no one questions this right, which no one intends to question that right that parents continue to raise their children in their homes as they wish. But it is the state that is obliged and in the child's interest to take responsibility for their education, for their healthy, unfettered development to create a healthy system of values and to prepare children for life, to, with their knowledge, skills, competences and ability, preparedness and learning to be good people, be willing to work and make for themselves, tomorrow their family and society, but on the other hand be happy and satisfied people. Similarly, the Ombudsman also referred to the proposal of the Family Law, the Family Law Draft and warned about the changes that were announced, remember, it is the only law in the history of the Republic of Croatia that has been put on public consultation and withdrawn, it seems to me two days after it appeared on the official website of the Ministry. He was so scandalous. The Ombudsman warns, when we talk about Family Law, that there is no satisfactory level of child protection in conflict divorces, and the Family Law currently in force, which is now required by the obligation of a special custodian. And for several years now, the D.A.'s office has been appealing to the Ministry to find mechanisms to revive this legal provision. But no, in that one crazy idea of 2 days that was available to the Croatian public, the Ministry decided precisely on this very serious and sensitive part because, for example, in 2017, a large number of applications relate precisely to the absence of this mechanism of care, the Ministry decided that a special guardian should, for example, be paid in some ways by parents, provided by parents, proposed by parents. What would that mean? Would this mean that children who do not have the funds or children who live, who come from poor families who are in a poor financial situation, would not have the right to consume this right. What should be, in fact, extended the availability and better-capacitated centre for special custody, and the new proposal of the Family Law actually went in the opposite direction. Not team up state institutions, not provide free service, take responsibility for these conflict situations that the state jumps where it should, but not transfer that responsibility and financial and everyone else to the back of those who are already in life hell and are actually looking at the state to save them from solving some of their personal life problems. But I believe a lot of spears will break around the Family Law. I believe that on family laws, family laws and the protection of the rights of children they offer and should be guaranteed as the most sensitive, vulnerable group of society, there will still be speeches in these defence reports. This government will not give up the need to pass a new Family Law although numerous research, numerous studies, and some European references are in favour of this family law which has now shown maturity and that it is very good at its implementation. The question is whether any more heads will fall due to the new Family Law, because of some other family laws. What I would like is to be honest that these are not the last two reports to be written honestly, objectively, without censorship and independently. The Office of the Advocates of the Sea and is obliged to point out all the failures in the protection of the rights of children, point out and slap institutions, to step up the mechanisms for the protection of these same rights and what I want to put in this new office of the Advocate's Office, although it is difficult in these circumstances to expect them to do their job independently and responsibly, regardless of what the legislator or most of them in this Croatian Parliament have decided to call them here all the time, pulls them for ears and calls for reports not just one year, but through these amendments and additions to the law that replaced Ivana Milas-Klarić so-called. lex Milas-Klaric, it went so far as not to be able to trap the attorney's head because of the failure to adopt a report that says something that the ruling majority does not respond to, but that at any time it can be asked the Attorney's Office to come here with extraordinary and to submit accounts and explain its moves, references, alarms to the Croatian Parliament. This can, if we're going to do things to absurde now, lead to her taking bills here every week and not actually doing her job for which she's paid and what she's actually supposed to do, and that's protecting children's rights, not investing in the ruling majority, so she's not being replaced or re-elected tomorrow. New amendments to the law are a disgrace in European frameworks. The Commissioner for Human Rights has also called us for it. This is a bad example of the collapse of independence, so-called independence. the independent institutions because, unfortunately, the adoption of the new law is no longer so, and I sincerely hope that instead of dealing with the unsuspecting and content that we do not like to start doing our job and that the Ministry will take these remarks seriously by the Ombudsman and work intensively on the fact that children's rights are not being violated but that they are improving in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82584	Thank you, too. It is now Mrs Vesna Pusic's turn in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney with a deputy, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So these two texts ahead of us Report for 2016 and 2017, I think the review of them could be divided into two basic categories. The first is the fact that the work of the Ombudsman on which the 2016 report is submitted, and de facto in large part and for 2017 has been assessed as being so unacceptable or poor by the Government that the government and parliamentary majority have gone to change the law so that the Ombudsman can be replaced. The second body of the topic to be discussed is the content of these reports itself, so as it were, which is a consistent and unusual fact that, in the 2017 report, it is mainly said that it continues with the arrival of a new Ombudsman who comes during 2017 or at the end of 2017, to continue to do exactly the same and to continue to work on the same methodology with a focus on the same problems. So the law was changed to get one lawyer out so that the job would continue according to everything we can see from these two reports work in the same way and with the same methodology. The purpose of the Advocates of any kind, and especially the Ombudsman for children, is to be independent or independent because if the Executive Authority and the arbitration decisions are satisfied or dissatisfaction of any kind because, by definition of the tasks of the Advocate General for Children as well as the Advocate General, as well as any other Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's task is to register, speak of things that do not work, which function badly. And if, in this context, the Ombudsman does not have autonomy and independence, then it does not need it because then the Government knows better, and then they need no one to warn about problems that arise in places where institutions do not function, where mistakes are made, situations where institutions or institutions or procedures or approaches should be changed, added, taken away, any of which to avoid the ill-being of institutions, in order to improve the protection of children, in order to avoid exploiting and harassing children in different ways that both of these reports testify. So by changing the law, and this happened during this period on the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman for children, that person's wings were cut off or the attorney's independence for children was ostensified. And the question now is how will this institution work at all? If in a situation where the Government is not satisfied with a report that one by definition of a person whose job description is to be critical and to criticise the bad points in the functioning of the Executive Authority, it can be replaced whenever the Government decides, so there is no autonomous mandate, preferably always better that does not match the mandate of any government, then I do not see what is really the function of the Ombudsman for children, if he cannot say anything that the Government does not like because he is going to rush her out. This happened during this period, and this is actually an institutional fundamental issue. Is this what a children's protection institute that we had in Croatia and most of them talk about both of these reports is de facto, in real terms, dimmed because of his loss of independence? One of the other sure signs that this happened is that in the report even explicitly, the expression verebis writes after a change of law did not lose its independence. Why would it be said that this is not exactly a questionable matter, so in this way, let me put it this way, a detour in the report itself and mention it. As for the content of both reports, so what is certainly good is the emphasis on individual children's rights, the stop-silence project is also good, so one with the great help of children to say so or from the children themselves is said here, but I would say with the great help of children, a defined way to fight peer violence and bulling at school and among children. It is also a good direct, direct approach to visiting institutions and foster parents who care for children without parental care, hence the direct presence of the Ombudsman in these institutions and reporting from these institutions. The international co-operation, mentioned in both reports, is a very intensive international co-operation, and I would say, a certain recognition received by the Ombudsman for children by the fact that in Croatia it is a state conference on, for example, children whose parents are in prison, meaning that the person and the work of the Ombudsman were recognized if an international conference where the lawyer participates also in the network of European lawyers and lawyers in Southeast Europe, so I would say some of Croatia's efforts on this topic. What we really need to look into in these reports and beyond these reports is spreading and unpunished, or I would say to cynicisms the reduced punishment of sex offenders against children. Also a case of different types of violence and threats that children face in educational institutions, I think it is very important to mention. My colleague Jeckov talked about this when it comes to children of different ethnicities, it is deadly in my opinion for society and we in GLAS and HSU certainly think that if children are raised from the smallest legs, we as a society have no chance of becoming a decent society. We also have a famous believer at Matija Gubec School and we have cases of pedophilia in different institutions, of which children expect help, who are trusted like church, school, family, so these are topics that the Ombudsman of children is talking about, of course, in these reports, but these are topics that are why the child defender exists. These are topics where we have failed both as a society and as a state. Institutionally not preventing, not covering, not if you want to sanction, punishing, embarrassing people who are excluded from communicating with children and even from a dignified existence of people who engage in such behavior and that kind of child abuse. I don't know if that was the main reason, but it's also about the so-called. the protection of children in the movement or children of migrants. It's a topic that the child's attorney accepted. During this period, as one of the most famous examples, an Afghan girl was killed by a train run over after meeting with the border police. So we have alarm bells all over the place. What's the reaction? Change the law and throw out the lawyer who warned and talked about it. What is the position and protection of migrant children, asylum seekers children, asylum seekers' children? The Council of Europe's report yesterday or the day before yesterday speaks of the alarming increase of extremist profassist ideology and behaviour in children in Croatia. Look at yourself on the Internet. We should be more concerned about this than the Council of Europe but also about the Council of Europe and we should be absolutely concerned and should be one of the topics that we will discuss here and more widely and certainly give the power and opportunity of the Ombudsman for children not only to talk about it to investigate and make recommendations, but to make such recommendations and accept them as is the case. civil education in schools, possibly preschoolized to avoid such a tragic situation. In any event, the GLAS and HSU Club considered that the Ombudsman had worked well for children in 2016 and 2017. If she had to go on like this, I hope that the new lawyer will also continue to work no matter what the sword of the new law hangs over her, which is if something too critical, the government will be able to replace her. But he better guard the children and his dignity than his position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82586	Now it's Mrs. Maria Puh's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82587	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Respected attorneys with an associate, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, today we are discussing a joint report by the Advocate General for 2016 and 2017. It is important to point out that it is now even the last 15th report, i.e. 15 years from the work of the Ombudsman for children in the Republic of Croatia. By reading these reports and looking at these reports, we can definitely understand them and they can serve us as one basis for improving the position and rights of children in the Republic of Croatia. Looking at the reports and the statistics alone, the figures on the application sent to the attorney, we see that the most still is the application for high conflict divorces, or the right to live with parents and to have parental care. Unfortunately, children in a difficult period of life in which they are found because of their parents ’ divorce are still exposed to various manipulations of one and the other parents, and ultimately, the divorce process itself takes quite a long time. The processes are exhausting and I think that we should all appeal to institutions and all those involved in the divorce process itself, so that these procedures are reduced as much as possible, that as much as possible take care of children, that this in some ways is not so traumatic, and that education professionals who will be able to devote themselves enough to any child who will not be overly burdened with a number of cases. Another major problem that plagues our children and that perhaps even I would point out as one perhaps even the biggest problem, which is the unequal possibility of education. Unfortunately, our beautiful country is quite unevenly developed. Local self-government units have a major contribution to rights and to the equal starting position of children, and they themselves have great differences between their financial opportunities that they can provide to children. In the Republic of Croatia there is a huge difference between urban and rural areas and there is a huge difference in the content and number of services for children who are made available and offered to children. After all, it is not only a big difference in the opportunities provided by local self-government units, but it is an automatic and large difference in the services that the civil sector itself provides in individual villages, cities and municipalities, because there are no civil sector and certain services in many. As an excellent example of this, I would have taken advantage of yesterday's Day of Marking, yesterday's celebration of the International Family Day on which, among other things, the work of the Centre for Children, Youth and Family of Velika Gorica was presented. Looking at and listening to the services provided by the Centre, the way they help children, and parents themselves, both in the field of education and in the field of all other aspects of life and any other problems that children face in the process of growing up, and thus parallel with them and their parents with all new challenges ahead of them. Sadly, such a good example does not have the ability to use many children and parents. In fact, when we look at most children and parents in the Republic of Croatia, they do not have access to such content and services, which can, in fact, make it easier for them to grow up and get to know all the new challenges and problems that are being delayed during childhood. Definitely, I think it's something that we really need to discuss in more detail, and we should find some possibility that units of local self-government are even, that they have more resources so that they can put all children in an equal starting position, and eventually, to stop the eviction from rural environments. All of us are talking about moving out of the Republic of Croatia, little who actually talks about moving out of the Republic of Croatia, where from rural environments people move to certain urban environments where they have more opportunities, more opportunities and maybe better jobs, and that is one, so I would really say that maybe even more of a problem than moving out of the Republic of Croatia because we have to worry about not having Croatia turn into a let's say, a desert country that will actually have populated places only around larger urban areas, and definitely an opportunity for children and opportunities that are provided both for children and for the exercise of rights and for learning about their rights are unfortunately in rural areas of the Republic of Croatia much smaller than in urban areas such as Zagreb, Rijeka, Split and all major cities. In the third place, the application that the Ombudsman received, and I was honestly a little surprised that it was only in third place because according to the perception created in the public and according to the news that we can look at daily, it seems that this problem is much, much bigger, and that is violence, violence, physical punishment and neglect. What is definitely not an honor to all of us, which is the very perception of young people about violence and the very attitude of young people towards violence, and I would even say that their perception is not that it is devastating, but that it is disastrous. Every once in a while we witness some organized fighting and child abuse, and when we look for more media monitoring, we share on social networks how trauma it is for children who have been abused. Over 40% of children and young people feel that violence is justified. Why is this happening to us? Why is it such a large number of children who think it's okay to hit someone or hit them and thus solve problems? When I went a little further to study these reports of violence against children, then we get another more than worrying data, which is that out of the 90 reports that have come about violence in educational institutions, as many as 8 of them are related to cases that occur in kindergartens. So in kindergartens, a certain spiral of violence starts already, children are kind of taught to solve their problems with violence, and we've all talked about it many times already, we'll talk about it many times, but I believe it's not enough and that this awareness that we have to start to prevent ourselves in some way, we see for ourselves both at kindergarten age and look back on it. Because if 40% of children now feel that violence is justified, I'm afraid it'll only be in a few years. As physical violence is increasing, so on the rise and only violence related to insults, demeaning, exclusion from society, and unfortunately all of this is being further enhanced in many ways by new technologies, new technologies that should actually be used for all of us, which should be in some way a tool for us, but unfortunately new technologies in many ways serve as peer violence and for the abuse of our friends and acquaintances. In some ways, when you look at the kind of violence that has been committed through cell phones, certain groups, social networks, there are actually far worse consequences than those of some of the classic forms of violence that have been more common, which is before when children came home from school, in a way they left a bully at school, there are other problems at school, and they knew that they are now at home, that they are in some way certain, that the person who abuses them is not close to them, and with the new technologies that are happening. So children carry with them all the messages, all the insults, all the mockery and debauchery, carry with them in their pockets, bring it into their rooms and, unfortunately, live all day and day, without any rest from any fear and bad feeling that only violence causes. Now I'd like to look back, not so much on this data that I've already touched, which is a network of young counselors. I think that a network of young counselors is an excellent practice that exists in the childcare system, and I think it would be good if we could think about expanding one such practice to some other institutions, that children have the right to express their views in some way, to participate in creating opportunities to exercise their rights. We see that last year, the fourth generation of young counselors was elected, and as far as I saw it, there was quite an interest in the applications, so I would like to congratulate all the new young counselors, as well as the lawyer who rounds it up, keeps it together and encourages their work. We have seen that they are also doing research on topics that they think are important to them, and I think that this institution or I don't know how to call them, help is very good and that in the future we will be able to hear a lot of good things from a network of young counselors, and in the end, as I said, it would be good to think that such a practice should be extended to some other institutions. We've had opportunities to hear from the D.A. that she's stepped up the field tours, going to various institutions and schools, and I definitely think it's commendable because how best you can see something happening and what might be wrong if you don't come, if you don't look at it, and if you don't actually hear from the first hand what's going on and how it can be helped and where it should possibly be urinated from her side. What we had to hear on the board is that only 40% of the recommendations the attorney's office made were accepted. I think that this figure is more than devastating and that all of us would have to work together to accept the visibility of the office, in that all institutions apply the recommendations and suggestions received by the Ombudsman because all of these recommendations and let's say in some way suggestions are actually there and because of the well-being of the children, they are based on certain complaints and I think we ourselves have to run this particular spiral of good practice, spirals of respect for opinions, and we all have to appeal to the institutions a little bit more, that this number of 40% of suggestions accepted, until next year much more changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82588	Thank you, too. At the gallery are students and students of the Mark Marulić University of Knin, we welcome them all with applause and thank you for being with us... Let's move on with the individual debate, first Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82589	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed attorney with a co-worker, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and co-worker. Today, we all agree that violence against children is in all segments of society and that it is necessary to change the views and attitudes of all of us, society as a whole, in order for children to be better. Of course, it is the Ombudsman who should act and act proactively, promoting and defending the rights of children, who should give a recommendation for the protection of children, all, regardless of whether they are classified differently in different floors of heating, on religious, social or other grounds. Children suffer violence, we hear in playgrounds, and even in educational institutions. What I would talk about today, if the children were to suffer violence in this assembly. It's sad, but whether we're thinking about how that fellow's kid feels, who we're going to call a liar, a political manipulator, a hypocritical, tells him he's sorry, that he's ignorant. Maybe we'll say it's just attacks by political inexperience, maybe we'll say it's freedom of speech. We often see and hear, after that, a colleague comes by a colleague and says, "Oh, we have to do this on our own, a little bit." Is it more important for him to get support or commendation from one of his potential voters or to hurt a child's colleagues? We say there should be good media cooperation, even I hear that cooperation is good. Do we think about how the child, the official, feels, whether it's a member of the government, a representative or a mayor, the mayor, the mayor, the director of a communist, when it's said to be his place in Remetinco, that he's been bought or sold, because he's coalitiond, with some major party, that he's washed millions. Have we ever considered how the children of former Minister Roncevic felt when he was filling the headlines after six and a half years and finally legally released? 2016 and 2017 were years, to remember '16. the time when parliamentary elections were and 2017 when we had local elections. We know we're full of posters then, full of graphite. On posters we often get a thief, we get mustaches, not to say, what can be drawn for male colleagues and women. I'm asking the D.A.'s attorney to think carefully, in what way, and here, and here, she's appealing to all of us together, to think about how one elementary school kid feels when he goes past the posters in the morning and sees something like that in his parents' picture. I think we should think carefully about how to protect those children, and not that there are so few. We've been witnesses recently, for example. A teacher or teacher at school, he says to a child, a child, who will conclude the score within a week, that the parent will think very carefully about how he will vote when it comes to ratification of the Istanbul Convention. My colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately there are few of us, here are the things we care about and care about and we want to talk about children's rights in Croatia, so that we can all think carefully and stay away from false and baseless accusations, difficult words, insults. Officials, they say, must endure inappropriate criticism, insults and threats, but what about our children. Can we in any way protect them from all this? Maybe we should just imagine, even though we're parents and there's no parents, who certainly isn't that kind of story and lived and heard it in his house, but here, just for a second, to think about what it would be like for someone to make such a public excuse against our parents. Could we, no matter how old we are, wear it like that, no pain without a trace? So here, once again, is the appeal to us, and to you, the esteemed Ombudsman, to see, to help our children, to protect them from the pain they have in view of their parents' responsible and public duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82590	Thank you very much, Istanbul Convention, we know, protects women and children. No, no, just work, otherwise, all right, but protects women and children of the Istanbul Convention, a reason more to be ratified. Mr. Miranda Mršić, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82591	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, the lawyer is here somewhere with a co-worker, too. We have a report on the work of the Advocate General for Children for 2016 and 2017. We can't discuss that report without touching a little what happened in history not long ago. So, she was a child lawyer, a lady who was simply forced, that is, we were doing an amendment to the law because she by certain criteria, the ruling options couldn't stay, and here we actually decided again on the subject of children to discuss something that we shouldn't have discussed. And then the law introduced a provision that if the lawyer's report fails, then it becomes a commitment or a non-confidential vote. Therefore, there is a conclusion that this report was only being taken into account, we simply do not think that it is, a report that any other report should be voted on. The role of the Ombudsman for children is extremely important, it is extremely important and its independence, it is extremely important that the reports speak precisely about the state of the matter. Why? Just to be better, just because and when you look at this history of reports, you see some progress, and you have to say that progress exists, that all of us, when we do one job, are learning, both at the beginning and at the end of the day, there are differences. And that's why it's important that impartiality, that impartiality, and that it's not all the time above the head of the sword. Look, if someone likes my report then I'll have a problem, then I might not be voted on so I'll have to go, so I'll fill out the newspaper pages, so my kids will be able to track down what the distinguished predecessor was saying before me, maybe see. So it's just not good, the attorney has to be independent, he has to say things in his report that someone doesn't like. But why? Just because we'd be better. Just to be an incentive to change the law, to make our laws better,... to see what we have in the field and try to do things the right way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We cannot also talk about this report that we do not touch the Istanbul Convention and all the opposition that is developing in societies, one Istanbul Convention is talking among other things about combating the abuse of women and domestic abuses that we are absolutely in a certain way and we have seen through these reports what it is, and therefore it is extremely good to discuss this Istanbul Convention, and to shed light on what it is. I remember when there was a child defender's competition, there were five candidates, each candidate was asked a question about the Istanbul Convention. Of those five candidates, I mean, I wouldn't want to offend anyone, but if three of them had heard about it for the first time when we asked them. It means that they didn't get very ready for the job and everyone was so very fit, I wouldn't want to get too involved in it, which is actually a good thing to say attitude, you can never like everyone. And that's why, here's why I'm taking one more chance because there's a lawyer for the kids, it won't be easy for you, this job is extremely demanding, and it won't be easy for you in context because you have a law that says if you're not accepted, or if you don't vote, then your job is compromised, it's not good. The Ombudsman must be a certain number of years independent, independent of the political structures that are being changed. You have to talk about the state it is because when you talk about the state it is, only it can be better, only at that moment you can make a step further, and we all who do this job, whether you are in executive or legislative power, should strive to make a step, to be better, that every report shows a slight shift and that you are talking about the problems that are. The problems are there, we can't hide them under the carpet, when you hide any problem under the carpet, there's a big pile of them, you pop on your nose and you fall. We need to talk openly and publicly about problems. I'm equally sure and you've had a chance to see it, there's a law that's already caused a big public debate, it's family law. The family law that was passed in 2014, then the Constitutional Court made it approximately a year, I think the end of 2014, at the end of 2015 was suspended from application, so somewhere there if I am not mistaken, 1 December 2015 went on to apply, it applies. I'm the one with the attitude, I don't think there's an ideal law. And anyone who thinks he wrote something ideal and that's unchangeable has a little problem. I think every law should be put into practice, you need to see what's good because you can't predict all the situations, all the scenarios, in practice you need to see what's good, it goes on, which is bad, change. If there are too many changes and additions then we see that structure, then there's something but all of the little changes and additions are absolutely welcome. This family law was in a public debate I think for two days, after that it was really with a big pomp. There was a problem where we didn't know the minister knew what she was letting go or didn't know, but that's a story for someone else. The family law will surely go back to some of the announcements that we expect may take place in the second half of this year. This public debate will again be absolutely under the light of the public because we are all sensitive to it. But there will also be an extremely significant role for you. It will be important for your role to be actively involved, that everything you see in practice and now you see, you have associates, which is the problem, that in this Family Law be tried through the legislative frameworks, and there is your responsibility and that is something that this or some other assembly will certainly ask you when the report will be and do the report for 2016 when you were not there, and defend for 2017 when you were only partial and that is the fact. But your responsibility will continue to be for that law to participate, to try to be in that law everything you see from practice is a problem and to make your job easier by law. So it's not the law that's gonna solve all the problems. The law provides frameworks that someone can act, that it's easier for him to do his job, to give an answer, and when you do something and where it says you say it, I work here because it says here and there will be your responsibility. And that's why I'm saying, someone will rightly question you on the next report if you really do so with the Family Law, and we live in a country where we predict something that will be within a week, I speak politically, is really at the level of cards or throwing beans because of course what was worth a week ago, it's not worth it today, as you all of us who live in this political life are actively, we know. However, what is really a focus on family law. Otherwise I really think that if so many changes are better done for easier treatment new, but let's not throw ourselves away all the time and what was good. In this law they also have some good things, they also have some practices that have shown that they are good, let’s not give it up lightly. And that's where I read your responsibility. So your responsibility for the 2016 report is none, for 2017 is in that really small segment. The report is realistically written, talking about situations that I am now and I was saying that I think it was much better not to tie the lawyer's position to the fact that we accept or do not accept the report. And I'm using every opportunity, so I was in the executive office, there was a report by the attorney general where I was headed wasn't rated the way I thought I was supposed to be, and I was terribly angry and I was an attorney general and I asked for a meeting and everything. After one conversation with her, I actually realized that each of us was doing his job. She rated it the way she saw it, and we should have learned from it and been better in the next report and that's the point of the Ombudsman and that's the role and importance and we need to look at everything together in this context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82592	Thank you, too. Replica Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82593	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you have made observations and should respect them, and I would like the prosecutor to be shown a little more often, but the fact is and the question is why the Advocate's Office is not more often present in a public space in which the public's attention should be directed towards the protection of the child's interests. For example, why was it not publicly reacted or manifested to a violation of the rights of a child as was the case in Split, we all remember him, which is the case of a small Cesar, in an attempt to execute a child where we had an event of the people, not a rule of law. It's been under pressure for years, the people have to rebel, and the D.A.'s office keeps quiet all the time. Now imagine what it's like for that child, and we have an institute to do with a child. Imagine having a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82594	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82595	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. We really had opportunities and media if I'm not mistaken, it was last summer, where all the media talked about it all and I can agree with you and the attorney's office really is to be on the ground and to participate and to see what's going on because that committee from the office seems a little different to you than when you really go away for a moment and you see things as they are. The report says that the entire office and the services are on their way, and I think it's a good thing. And I also think it's incomparable that even in cases, no matter what the office says, it's always better to say its position than to keep quiet. When you keep quiet then you always feel like someone's hiding something or there's nothing to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82596	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82597	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. I've already said one thing in the replica that bothers me, I haven't heard an answer from you, so I'll repeat it. You have de facto given a report not for your work because you were only there for a month in 2017 and something but have given a report for the work of your predecessor, Milos Klaric, who is for those how many 23 months of her work. And as you know her previous report to this House, this House has not accepted. But as far as I've been able to see this report, These reports of yours and what you presented to them have no big difference in its work and in the period which the Parliament did not accept and about what you were now saying. And I wish you'd made a clear distinction between that and that you'd fenced yourself a little bit from her work because this home right here, these people didn't accept her report, and that's very, very important. Because if we ignore it as one fact, as a single fact then we have your relationship with this House is not how it should be and I think it's a mistake, but you see you still get in the final word and make that distinction or comment and her work because you're talking about it. And when we talk about the esteemed Milas Klaric here we heard Mrs Pusic and Mrs. Mrak who are extremely sad that she is no longer a child lawyer and forgot that the Ombudsman for children and his deputies must not belong to any political party, nor should they participate in political activities. And that's exactly what your predecessor did. She was such a fine right hand to the SDP, or the entire SDP policy, she was very supportive and she was not objective in her work which she showed very, very many times and that is what matters, that is, what is crucial that you all need to know. It wasn't because she was doing her job, it was because she was involved in politics in one way, and she shouldn't have done it. I heard my colleague Mrak talking about the Istanbul Convention, and I agree with her in some way, I really was the one who asked you a question about the Istanbul Convention, most of you didn't have an opinion on one key document, and I'm sorry it wasn't, but I was glad to hear from you that, unlike all the other candidates, you were explicit about gender ideology, and you said these words, there's this in the phonogram, I'm not, clearly. And that was why I gave you the trust, that crucial moment when I decided for you when you said so honestly, I didn't do it. However, here I must note, however, that in these past few months you have had one chance in which you have made a mistake, perhaps it is one initial mistake, I believe it is, and that is the reaction to that children's carnival in Kaštel. A little something, but I think your statement about this event that it wasn't my place to say it was a carnival. The carnival is each against the system, criticises various people, as the furs are burned by politicians, celebrities, so why don't you show a picture book that doesn't answer to some or many of them in this country. So you had to keep that in mind, that it was a carnival, that it was one of the celebrations, one of the parties because they set Pernar's colleagues on fire in a carnival, so no one was defending him. But I think that maybe we should have defended him before him, for example, even though I don't think that he, any of us who are public, could actually have happened. Furthermore, counterpart Pusic spoke again about fascism among young people. I didn't hear you say it was happening, so maybe a final comment on her finding of a significant increase in fascism and I don't know, an unacceptable form of behavior among young people, I think it's a notorious lie by commenting on it. I'll lock it up. The report you gave de facto is not your report, or you were talking about your predecessor's report, which this house said was not doing a good job, and I believe that as a new attorney for the dignity of this home, you must be able to fence yourself from what your predecessor did. At least of those things that were controversial to these MPs here who chose you, or most of all, the home of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82598	Mr. Zekanovic, as far as the Rivers are concerned, there is a carnival where dolls are burned. It's not an Inquisition where people are burned, it's a carnival, it's a joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82599	Dear Vice President, that's exactly what I... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82600	Mr. Tomislav Jagar, as an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82601	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney for the children with the co-worker, the distinguished state secretary with the co-worker, co-workers and colleagues, I will try to say a few things that I think are important to make known during this debate. Anyway, as far as the report is concerned, I would still like to point out that this is your attorney's report, regardless of what was the second prosecutor before October, this is your report, this is the Ombudsman's report, and that is how we should observe it because we must not look at institutions based on or interrupt their work and watch them... on the basis of who is leading them at a certain point because in a given moment, as you are elected in the Croatian Assembly, you may be resolved by someone tomorrow, but I think that what is the aim of the Ombudsman and what is legally defined, you need to meet and there you have full support and I hope that you will succeed, and there is much work to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is there a lot of work to do? I'll try to say in one aspect that I see is extremely important. In fact, everything reflected in the world of young people, in the world of our children, is the result of what is reflected in the adult world. Children are exclusively victims of relationships that occur, or that result in unresolved relations between adults or sufficiently undefined institutions that should take care of children's rights, their protection, and in this sense I said in the replica, and I suggest that it is really isolated, to see exactly what is the child's budget and how much money is available because without money we won't do much. Why does it matter? I agree with you, I think that's what you said in the introduction, and it says in the report. Professionalism is something we must not ignore, expertise is very important. If we're talking about expertise here, let's get a welfare center. Our welfare centres are doing their job, but do they have enough capacity, do they have enough professional people to do the job properly? This is where the school system was mentioned. Teachers who are often not competent enough to face the problems we face daily. In many schools, be careful not all schools have equal standards. Although there are pedagogical standards that we have adopted long ago because rules or laws have been passed, we still don't have those standards. Some schools do not have professional co-workers that are needed, so schools do not have psychologists, educators, defecologists, everything they need, logos, so that they can face specific requirements and problems that children face on a daily basis. I agree with you that there is a need to introduce more control over teachers, but on the other hand, these people need to be helped. They don't have to go to sanctions, they need help. I don't know if you know that in many schools, a teacher if he wants to go to professional training can't get money for it because there's no easy money. As a society, we have a constant problem that we lack money in important things. And then it reflects later on the expertise of these teachers and then on the problems associated with children. And we mustn't forget exactly you as a lawyer are also receiving complaints from parents, but we must understand that parents are not always right, that their level of knowledge, competence is not enough for them to judge, and of course they are subjective to their child so that they can judge in the right way. So, as far as school teachers are concerned, they also need to be helped to make better decisions. And what I would especially like to stress right now, and that seems to me in the report somehow, but given that it's not until the end of your work, but you can help out a lot. I'm talking preschool. It's very hard to get out of poverty. We days in the Republic of Croatia have counties that, according to the averages in the Republic of Croatia at the beginning, mean very low income levels, have huge problems, and eventually children are getting smaller because of these negative demographic movements and these counties are poor. So in my county, I think it's 13, in Virovitica-Podravska County, I think there are 13 kindergartens, now don't take my word for it, experts who, we've been reading about it for years, warn that it's an early education of children from 6 months to 6 years, extremely important because if intelligence and generally cognitive skills are observed not only from a biological point of view but from a sociological point of view, from the point of view of developing these abilities through that early preschool education, then it's extremely important. And there should be more work to do. Local self-government units, under those objective circumstances that do not have enough money, often have some unreasonable, unobstructive circumstances so they do not want to co-finance kindergarten if it is in the area of others, actually the parents of kindergarten, if it is in the area of the unit of local self-government, which is completely pointless from the point of view of the child's right. And I think that at preschool level you can do a lot more, of course this mandatory programme that was introduced since 1 October 2014, this one year in which the previous school of the compulsory programme is not enough. They show the research results that children who are in kindergartens usually achieve better results at school. And because of this system you should invest more, it is not mandatory at this point but could be invested more and I think that you as a lawyer can give a lot of suggestions in this area. There are many more topics that we can open but leave it for your future work and I hope that your office is open to all the comments, suggestions that we will send you, I have some questions still from the field that we do not burden the entire public, individual questions, and here I ask you for your help and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82602	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, first line requested by Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82603	Dear colleague Sagar, this isn't yours, it's less addressed but first counsel down. We all know that children are the most vulnerable part of society, and every crime against a child is unforgivable, and what about a certain group here if you care so much about children and we see children begging, you have arranged marriages, is that perhaps pedophilia? 12 years of a certain group, yes. I once saw from Ban Jelačić Square to professional beggars here, who are those heads? What about integration into Croatian society? Who's he talking about and who's protecting their rights? I'm looking at a young kid playing harmonica, it's raining cold, he wants to go in, he's threatening from the inside, it's the same as a pimp just kids use. What are your data on pedophilia, by groups, clubs, other religious communities besides the Catholic Church, what are you doing on this issue, what is the statistics? Here's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82604	Excuse me, time. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82605	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Glasovic, you have warned of some of the fates of children and young people. I just answered to inform you that there will be a thematic session soon, and I welcome the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, where this particular problem, which is an extremely big problem, is a problem of pedophilia, will be called to this session by all those relevant who can say something about it. Here I invite you personally, to come to that session, I am a member of the board, to come to that session and discuss these topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82606	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82607	Dear colleague, you said at one point about children's rights and I had a feeling that somehow you neglected your parents' rights. I would still point out through this replica. It is the parents who primarily raise their children and no one can dispute that right. Of course, all this rest isn't questionable. I had a feeling that somehow you wanted to transfer more responsibility to the institutions and that this must not happen, or must happen, and through the laws on which they will work, bear in mind that parents are the ones who primarily raise their children and that no one can dispute them. But as far as the first children are concerned, we agree, but let's not forget the right parents in this context.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82608	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82609	Dear colleague Zekanovic, I'm sorry if you misunderstood me, but I, as a parent, am also thinking further than my family, every parent thinks so. But there are knowledge, competences I don't have, I don't have enough to face. Well, since I was working at school as a classmate, many times my parents came and said and those were teenage kids, they said I don't know what to do, I just don't know, as a parent told me that, so then I wondered as a teacher what to do. In that sense, I say that institutions need to work more, help parents, eventually the whole society, because these kids today, they're going to be pillars of this society no matter how we look at it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82610	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. Now it's Mr. Marko Vučetic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82611	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. This report that we are discussing today is certainly the most important, most important point of the agenda, there is no important, there is no important point that we can discuss because all others are deeply politicised. All the other points are the possibility that we can make a path through them and open a path into the possibility of our political survival or that we can review what we've done so far. This report is a report I call the report of the missing reality or the disappearance of reality because it contains all the data concerning the violation of children's rights. Infringements of children's rights can only be done by a creature who doesn't realize that a child is the most valuable thing in the human world. For what? Because we are all stopped in development and we are all going towards our end and in front of the children is development and the future. We're all somewhat past beings and only children are beings of the future. They belong to something, it doesn't belong to them what's in this report, which is discrimination from taking the right, from the right of the family. In these discussions so far, I will now look back on this one absoluteization of parental care and parental rights over children's rights. That's inadmissible. Parents, being parents, are not in a privileged position, that children are extradited to them, and that their children belong to them as an absolute property. No, children belong to the human world and belong to themselves, and they belong to parents. These reports and sum up these reports, therefore, are not a prayer record to the Attorney General, to bow down to the power of parenting and the untouchableness of parenting, but to prescribe both within the family and within parental relations, whether there has been a violation of the rights of children, and we have seen from this report, that parents are in high complete situations, stop being parents and become warlords whom children use, only as soldiers to achieve their goals, on a battlefield that is not appropriate to a child and on a battlefield that is not appropriate to this world in which we should and wish to live. Since everyone has already listed the infringements of children's rights in these two years, almost, unchanged, not to mention them, and there are no big differences, even in the number of these injuries, it is obvious that we must develop different strategies and learn to conflict with this legality out of trans-reality and that this report should be viewed as an atlas of public policy anatomy and atlas of the anatomy of perfict relationships of all those who see in children an instrument or in children a goal, which will enable them to survive either in their sadism or in their own different, human, immature activities, in which I count and activities of teachers, who are unable to protect the child. I also count the activities of the parents that are being played... And then the children are prescribed not to be vaccinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also include religious communities that consider the child to be an object of mediated fanaticism. So, all this healthy parenting will take care of the child’s health. A healthy religious community will take care of the spiritual health of a child healthy society will take care of it, not to discuss the Ombudsman, but to discuss what this report is about, and this is about children who are happy with certain rights. We face discrimination, members of the children of the Roma national minority or members of all other minorities because we deny them some rights. We're meeting up with data that we don't have enough room in institutions for children for up to three years of life. We meet to see that we don't have enough foster families, places in foster parents for children. We meet with the lively and courteous sadness of these reports, and therefore I call for us not to politicize this subject today and the subject of this report, but to realize that the policies are a tool through which we can change this reality and if we want to develop some kind of patriotism, we would call on all MPs to give up patriotism that will focus on defence of borders, persuasion of bloody traces, wars and life in the past. And to understand that our true, true, patriotic act is to see in children an object, object and purpose, meaning, goal, what should be a patriotic act. To learn to treat children as the most valuable part of the world and in a part called restructuring as a national state. I therefore call on us, in the next report and all future reports, to approach these reports from the level of this redefine patriotism. That in children, we see, what is worth, collectively love and that collective love we express in a way, the protection of the child's world and respect for children's rights, because only then will we live in a world of respect for human rights and in a world of absence of these competitions which when I give a negative report to and whether it is crucial, whether someone will be for Istanbul, ratification of the Istanbul Convention or not. So, these are submerged, irrelevant relationships, with our personal history, but it is important that we live not in a world where we think about a better world, but that we live in a world where we will act in a way that creates the reality of this world where there will be no of these missing realities and in which children will be protected, happy, and in which people will succeed, adults live in the births that are protected by children's rights and live in a world of respect for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82612	Thank you very much. A lack of presidency, that I can't give you for rights, that's my lack, but we'll have other opinions now, because you have a lot of replicas. The first is Mrs. Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82613	Dear Vice-President Vučetic, here you have quite apostrophe of the role of parents in raising children, and I would draw you one attention to the fact that, especially after this report by the Council of Europe, in Croatia, very much, especially in last year, hate speech. Well, here I am asking you, and all of us, what about protecting children from hate speech, from these labors? Who's in charge, who needs to be done, why isn't it done? And in fact, what is the role of those, that is, the responsibility, of those who use it, which is used by hate speech, and that really affects both the development of children and those who do nothing about it, or do very little and not enough in the direction of clear condemnation and other mechanisms when it comes to hate speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82614	Mr. Vučetic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82615	Here's a thank you. I'm glad we touched this level of our common or communication and social dimension of a human being, and that's the human being by being a community only by being able to express itself, which is able to communicate, which is able to use speech. The speech doesn't belong to hate. It is true, and it is again one of those sad truths of our world in which we now live and our time in which we time all existence, which is that language has experienced many of its collapses and that family language when parents teach children hate and not the ability to meet different realities and different valuable beings. If you have such a hate speech in your family communities and no doubt we have it, then it is clear that we will have it in all other institutions and in all other forms of our common consciousness.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82616	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82617	Your Honor, I've been listening to you, as if you were going to the President's election, all that sounds great, but here it is. Always that mantra to worry about the future, not the past. What are you talking about? Do an analysis of why and who was saying that family is an unnatural community, where does that come from? And today what are you looking at in society, in this social anarchy? Who encourages this nonstop? You have associations, for example. Associations, civil society, where the first teachers must be parents, there is created and formed the character of one man, of course. If that's not done then the law represents force, it means someone abuses a child, takes away a child. Well, you have kids who are afraid to go to school for peer violence. Who should be punished? Your parents should be punished. What did we hear today, what kind of hate speech? Is hate speech like this, who's he pointing at? Against the majority Croatian regiment because this was where they died for
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82618	.../Intruder Radin: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Glasnović, for your time, Mr. Glasnović. Here you go, Mr. Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82619	Of course, the man has two speeches. The first is the speech of history and the second is the speech of the future. Both speeches take place in the human now, in the state now and in the political now. We have the right and we have the opportunity to talk about the past, but we don't have the opportunity to be masters of that past. What belongs to man is the future and we are in a body that thinks about the future, not that opens up discussions from the past. It's true that you said no one can replace parents, but parents are the ones who care about the truth of a child, not those who teach children how to become their replicas. As a parent, I must tell you that I am extremely trying to make sure that my children face many other truths that are not my truths because that is the only way they will be able to meet with themselves and their own subjectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82620	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82621	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vučetic. Here you have offered me in your debate to quote one poet who says: your children are not your children, you can give them your love, but not your thoughts because they have their own thoughts, you can capture their bodies, but not their souls, because their souls are staying in a house from tomorrow you can't visit, even in your dreams. You can climb up to be like them, but you don't ask them to be like you. Just a large part of the people who were children now, a large part of their accident, the unfortunate lives lie in the fact that parents wanted their ambitions, the treatment of their frustrations, or wanted their children to become what they couldn't be and have just led to those children being unhappy all their life, choosing either their interest, or their way, and parents, we have to conclude, do not always have the competences, do not always have the knowledge they need to give their child the best, and therefore they are important experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82622	Thank you very much. Don't throw it away, please. The answer, Mr. Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82623	Thank you. It is true that this relationship between parents and children can be observed at several levels. Time and logic parents are ahead of children, but if we look at things in a different way, then the truth is that parents are having children. But the fact is, the more true fact is that children are giving birth to their parents. And if we realize that this is almost the same relationship, not the relationship between the superiors, it's the act in which parents gave birth to children and the act in which children gave birth to parenting and their parents. We should also look at the same things as evolution so that we should not allow the next generation to be at our level in their families. The next generation of humanity must be more perfect than we are and therefore we must not terrorise children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82624	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic asked for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82625	Thank you, Vice President. You've talked a lot about children's rights. Of course all children should have the same rights, but also similar rights. Every child has the right to have a home, to have a right to eat, to have a school, to have a place to live, to have children, to need us, to verticalize society, to try to help them have it all. Of course, you mentioned the Roma, so we know for a fact that they don't have it all. And we must make an effort from here, from this House, to bring these children here to be tools like you mentioned, not hate, but a tool of kindness where we must think about them, their standards, their status, whatever nations and what religions they have been. We are these people here who should also be in this law that is passed and which should certainly be supported and tried to provide children with a nicer home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82626	Thank you. Mr. Wolfettic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82627	Thank you. Dear colleague. You've told a few truths, I'll just hold on to two. The first is when you say that we are in charge of considering policies that will help members of national minorities, then let us bear in mind that we are just facing a referendum that national minority representatives want to take away their rights. It is unacceptable for anyone to think in 2018 that there are people who have different rights in the same space. It's a definition of discrimination. Another form of discrimination that once again stems from our political consciousness, and almost no one mentioned it today is that we also violate children's rights in pre-election campaigns. In local, especially local elections, there is a massive violation of children's rights and we need to talk about it, and for these rights we as politicians are responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82628	Thank you very much. And the last line has Mr. Steve Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82629	Your Honor, Vice President. A fellow respected, respected. I can't help but look at your exposure to patriotism that should be removed. The memory of patriotism encourages me to tell you that our presence here is the result of someone's patriotism that many would, and also remove it from the curricula, and also from the public space and impose something new. The collective memory also encourages us to remember the patriotism of the Homeland War, and we've also heard many times in this assembly some new memories, new definitions, new Fascision, going back to the past without your great idea in the perfect future that's utopia, and I'm going to read to you how some go back into the past. Dejan Drakulić SDSSB, deputy mayor of Vukovar, participated...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82630	But unfortunately, we don't have... But, Mr. Culey, you'll have to do it another time because time's up. I'm sorry. Mr. Vuketic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82631	Dear colleague Culey, I'm going to be very clear right now. I have not denied the value of the Homeland War, in several times I have even pointed out that someone who does not recognize the justifying act of Croatian statehood, which is the Homeland War, has thus denied the possibility of being a citizen of this country. And I hope we all agree on that, that we all agree. One who denies the value of the Homeland War and justifying the act of the Homeland War as an act of the foundation of the Croatian state, Croatian statehood has therefore been ruled out from the possibility of being a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, but we agree that this justifying act must result in a chain of all other patriotic acts. And for me in 2018 is a patriotic act after the Homeland War, I now see it transforming itself into a care and a patriotic concern for children we will not expose to any form of violation of rights and discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82632	Thank you, too. We're done with the replicas. Let's move on with the individual debate. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney-General with my associates, I will look back in my brief debate on something that I think is a really big problem that we pay too much attention to, which is sexual abuse and child abuse. The number of those who speak to you, of course, is not real. He's in proportion to what really exists. It is in proportion to the actual number of children who experience some form of sexual abuse and exploitation. State institutions, including us, would say are pushing this problem under the rug for many years. I've been here a long time, this is my third term, and year after year we're discussing reports and we're saying that, that's the problem, is, and we have laws, and they're bad, but it'll be better, and we'll solve it, and we're not solving anything. So, we're always here, we tap in place, and the problem doesn't work out. Here's the DORH report for 2016, according to the courts confirmed 1095 indictments, totaled 1336 verdicts. So 93% convicted, but you know how many with parole? 85%. 85% with parole and we say we have the law. So what laws do we have? And not just that. The work of the courts left 2173 indictees of these crimes where no verdict was reached. Well, there's a direct breach here. 4. The law on youth courts that talk about the urgency of the procedure, so we're surprised. No, no, let's not be surprised, let's not be surprised before we should start over and over and over again that it's actually a state of affairs, which is that the Republic has not built one quality and complete system, an effective child protection system. We don't have it. First, the victim's child support system is not good. We don't have a system that allows a child to get out of trauma quickly. Secondly, we don't have a center for forensic examination of victims' children in every district center or at least regional centres. We don't have effective surveillance, effective pedophile control system at a sustained sentence. We don't have a system-organized prevention that's available to our children. We have a judicial system as we have with some minor shifts in the last 10 years, it's actually not at all tailored to the victims' children and endangers actually the child from re-traumaticisation and multiple examinations. The case-law is unequal, not only as regards the treatment of the victim's child but also as regards the punishment of the perpetrator of sexual violence against the child. I won't talk about the length of court proceedings. I don't have time. I'm not going to talk about embarrassing judgments because I don't have time. In other words, children are not protected from contact with paedophiles, penalties are too mild for paedophiles, all children do not have the same recovery options because not all services are equally available to them, which means that we discriminate on children within Croatian borders. We don't have enough experts and we don't have enough facilities to treat child abusers. And what do you do? So what now? Well, what we shouldn't possibly be pushing under the carpet again is a problem. Because they won't disappear. We might try rather, listen to what the citizens tell us. Let us listen to what they have been telling us in recent months from the Association for Supporting Victims to Pedophiles and their families, Luke of Rijeka, for example. Which tells us the citizens' initiative of parents against pedophilia in Croatia, who are fighting, for a stricter, more serious approach to criminals and paedophiles to the harm of children and minors. For months already, pilgrimages by the ministries have come a long way, from the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, demographics, family, youth and social policies, and point out that there are major gaps in the decision-making of sex criminals against children and youth in which the perpetrator is constantly going for the benefit of the perpetrator, and the victim is being ignored and the victim is being Stigmatised. They're for new law, anti-pedophilic law. That's just how he got his name in public. A new law that would seriously deal with this problem. But, of course, the very mention of the new law, critics say, so we already have the Penal Code, he's dealing with the problem. What if we had it when it's bad, when it's not effective, when it's not effective. And we see that, we all know that. Some say but we'll change the Penal Code, so what have we been waiting for so far, what are we doing? If there is an amendment to the Penal Code, I'm sure it will be a cosmetic nature and only extend such a bad case law, which we've been witnessing for years. What we need is a new whole law, which will deal with this problem seriously. Someone will say again, but why paedophile a special law. Let them go to a special law. If we have a problem and we don't have effective fighting instruments, so let the new law go, and why not? Why not? Could someone be defending them? Do they need to be defended? As long as they are within the Penal Code, they will not be punished as they should be. Why? Because the Penal Code allows for the determination of penalties, minor penalties, and taking easy circumstances, and setting the minimum prison sentence, and leaving the ground after serving the sentence, for good conduct, you were very well ruled, so he worked for the common good. Great. He's made a big contribution to society. And then you have a case like in Rijeka, in 2012, a man who was sentenced to a unique prison sentence of six years and two months. For sexual abuse of a child under the age of 12 for child pornography, and I will not cite it painfully to listen to what he was convicted of, so he was released for good conduct for 1 year and 2 months. Previously on AMC's The Walking Dead... And then when RTL TV caught him somewhere and asked him what he thought, is he, feeling guilty, no, he says, I didn't do anything wrong. We rehabilitated him well in prison, he's really recovered. It proves to you what our laws are, what our system is, and how truly we don't really fight the problems that we all see. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I believe, when the law of anti-pedophilicism comes into the parliamentary procedure that you will all support it because the practice so far is not good, because we must change the practice so far and we must not wait for some great tragedy to happen, as in neighbouring countries, because there is no such thing as what can happen in society when the law cannot be regulated. It's just a question of whether we want to or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82634	Thank you. You have three replicas, the first replica of Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82635	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic, I absolutely agree with what you said, that pedophiles should go into a special law, because it is the most terrible crime to take away a child's childhood, safety, health and everything else. We need to think about that too. I wanted to supplement your debate with something else, children also have the right to education, colleagues and colleagues, have the right to quality education, to information, not doctorate. And that's why I think it's also very important to mention in this debate, that we still don't have civil education in the vast majority of our schools and that children don't learn, right? They don't learn, and it depends on the initiative of their professors, teachers, teachers, to responsibly consume the media. To not teach them that corruption is something that is wrong, which is undesirable. Because growing up in a society like this, where corruption is at every turn, they can't think it's allowed. I think I'm raising the key, that education is the key, that I've always said, one kuna to education, can be returned to us multiple times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82636	Thank you very much. Answer, Mrs. Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82637	Thank you very much. It is very important to realise that Croatian institutions do not have a Croatian institution, which enables the rehabilitation of pedophile. And these people are actually committing a crime against a child with intent and plan. They've been able to prepare for years for a moment when they'll kidnap an innocent child. And it's a serious crime and it's a serious violation of children's rights, or human rights. Such persons should not go through with a penalty reduced due to easing circumstances. I really can't imagine what, now the lawyers would probably get on their feet to hear me, and okay, but for me, it's right and to a basic point of view. Thank you very much. [[Intruder; Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82638	Time, Mr. Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82639	... exposure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This way I've been in the justice system for 10 years, I've seen more sex sadistics, paedophiles than you'll ever see in your entire life. There's a saying, it says this: some people can't rehabilitate themselves, they've never been habilitated, these must be recognized, these characters in society, these pedophile, these sex sadistic, twisted criminals, and they have to be removed as quickly as possible from the law, actually from society, and we don't have those laws. Why don't we have those laws? Who's to blame? Here's 700 laws of Eu prescribed, Istanbul Convention, let's take action. What kind of data we have here in Croatia about suicide, child suicide, about incest, let's say the incest was legal in France until the 70s, terrifying. Transgeneration sex in areas where our data is, etc. When we talk, we have black spots for those, do we have black spots for those areas, etc.?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82640	Time, thank you. Mrs. Jerkovic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82641	I agree with you, but I'm back to the fact that if we truly want to and we recognize something as a social problem and if we want to truly solve it, then we can. We can. When we talk specifically about the problem of paedophiles, so crimes against children, I really believe that they must not enter the system of testing because they did not actually learn, they did not even have an institution there where they could learn that the crime they committed was indeed a crime and that what they did was something extremely bad. He spoke nicely of the future, the children are our future. It's a direct blow to our own future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82642	Thank you, too. The last replicas of Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82643	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Jerkovic, here I think you've highlighted a very, very good problem, it's actually a problem of violence and it's sexual violence against children. It's something that's really also very present in our society, and I would say that precisely because we don't have enough clarity and until the end of the law that it's still in force, even in spite of some reactions and some steps taken, it's still there, and it's right where it shouldn't be, and here we are reading yesterday on the portal's pages that just in Sibenik, among the clergy, so again one revealed case thanks to the report of three minors, fortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82644	Time, thank you. Mrs. Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82645	Thank you very much. You know, colleagues who demoted me terribly as a politician to do politics? And I've already told myself a few times, I've had enough, and I'm not going to be a part of it anymore. I can't understand why we need all these civil initiatives to get us started, why don't governments do their jobs? It doesn't matter which, until now. Why should parents rise up and defend their children and fight for their rights? What are we doing here? Why don't we pass laws that protect them? Why do parents of children suffer from dystrophy and severe illnesses have to go out on the street and fight for their children to get paid medicine, and they spend years in a health care system so that they and their children can be treated. Which is why so often we have to be driven by the ones we're here for, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82646	Thank you. And we have another replica from Mr. Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82647	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you spoke more about the consequences than the causes in your presentation. We are an insane state in certain matters, but this comes out of practice, as Mrs. Taritash said today, so the Law on Family Violence and the Law on Criminal Procedure, juvenile courts. We have certain things that are being solved, it's an individual who makes society, what you're talking about, and he comes from a family, and the family is once again one category where we all participate in hers. So the problem that happens to us is that in those individuals, and even in the sexual abuse of children and in paedophilia, no one can have any understanding or justification for what you've been saying, but the fact is that in this House and what we often talk about, we're actually working on things that don't happen. And from your presentation, I'd say it's a general phenomenon, and fortunately, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82648	Thank you. Mrs. Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82649	Thank you very much. There are trusts, we're a country burdened with problems and we have a lot of them. We're a young country, we're a young democracy, a lot of that fact can justify, but we shouldn't all, we shouldn't all, and there should be categories of problems that political divisions shouldn't be about. This is one of those problems, child protection. When a good law comes up, we should all raise our hand to that law. No polymizing, no, no human, at heart, knowing that what we're doing is a good thing. Now that will be a major advance for Croatian society when such a thing happens in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82650	Thank you very much. At least it's been 27 years since that young democracy was established. You should be growing up slowly by now. Ms. Helena Pirnat-Dragičević, attorney for the children, has the right on behalf of the promoter in the final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82651	Here are the respected representatives at the end of this item of the agenda I would like to thank all of you who today have been involved in any debate on the rights and position of children in Croatia, but also shared with us the reflection, on a number of topics related to children's rights in Croatia, but also on the work and functioning of the Office of Advocates for Children. What I would like to point out in this regard on several occasions was the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman for children, which is and which is determined that the Ombudsman for children can be replaced unless the annual report passes. That provision has existed in the law since 2003 and, yes, I agree with everyone, because I believe that the Advocate's office, that the lawyer's role, the lawyer's role, is independent, that is, that the Ombudsman should be independent. Especially when we talk about the Ombudsman for children and I would say, one thought is that children deserve consensus, so in this sense I also consider the work of the Office of Advocates for Children who is exclusively dedicated to children from a professional and professional point of view, I believe that they should be so seen by the Croatian Parliament. There have also been several speeches on several occasions, said the former Ombudsman for children. In this regard, I must say that when you look at all the last and all 15 reports, as many as there are and acts of the Office of the Ombudsman for Children, as an independent body, all these reports talk about certain relevant topics, based on specific applications, or on things and real events relating to child endangerment. It is precisely because of the responsibility and respect for these children that I do not want to and cannot build upon the importance of all the topics covered by reports that today are the subject of this debate, nor can I change the number of applications, nor can I change the rank of applications themselves. Here I think, i.e. also, not only on the last two reports, but also on the report of all former lawyers for children of Ms Mile Jelavić, as well as Mrs Ljubice Matijević Vrsaljko. What I would like to share with you, as a teacher, is that today my associate and I have listened carefully, that we will certainly consider all your proposals and criticisms, or that we will take action from the part-round work of the Ombudsman for children. What is the task of all of us is to make growing up our children safe and beautiful and to help them grow up, especially in those situations where they are vulnerable, in situations where they suffer and actually lose their childhood. For us professionals, who are involved and who are responsible for the achievement of children's rights, there is one additional task, which is to identify and respond in due time to the needs of all children. In this sense today, I call on you to continue, today to start a dialogue, with the aim of improving the position and rights of children in Croatia. What's my final thought is we all think about kids together and put the welfare and best interests of children first. In doing so, I must remind myself of the proposal of the Office of the Advocate General for Children, of the possibility of establishing a new model of cooperation, which some other countries have recognized, which, in the Office of the Advocates, would be called the thematic clock for children's rights. So either in the assembly room, or in the rooms of our office, it would allow us, such a model, to allow us to communicate on the current but also on all other topics, which are related to children's rights. So, in that sense, I invite you all to further cooperate with the Attorney General's Office for Children. And what I must also say, finally, is that, in relation to individual segments, that is, to certain violations of rights that have been mentioned today, I will refer to this perhaps the last sexual abuse of children mentioned, and I will say that since 2007, the office has been intensively and consistent in protecting children from sexual predators in all places. Therefore, the office has now, during my term of office, made recommendations, namely, to support the proposal put forward in the Assembly, which is related to the amendments to several laws, which would serve to protect children in this part, and to serve punishment, i.e. to serve the procedure and behaviour of those perpetrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82652	Thank you, too. I conclude the debate, I remind you it was two reports for 2016 and 2017 and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82653	The report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2016, the applicant is the Ombudsman for children, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2016 is accepted, please vote. I find that the majority of votes, 76 votes in favour and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82758	Now we move on to the next item of the agenda, which bears the title: - Attorney General for Children Allow me the freedom to make one remark. It is not excluded that one day we will have a lawyer for the children, but so far it has been a practice for us to have attorneys for the children, but since we cannot rule out, then we can't even write a Rules of Procedure for the children. It would be best if we wrote perhaps with your amendment, and since it's all about your attorney's office's office's Rules of Procedure for the children, so this applies to the entire office. That's what I'm saying because there are certain laws that speak about how a certain job should be appointed. So, Attorney General's Office's office may, you know, I'm not a Janitor, but the Rules of Procedure of Child Prosecution might be more meaningful, and you have both the deputies and the entire attorney general who's the subject of this Rules of Procedure. The applicant for this Rules of Procedure, whatever his or her name is, is the Ombudsman for children under Article. 27. It's a law about a child's attorney. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. Will the applicant give an additional explanation? Ms. Helena Pirnat Dragicevic, attorney for the children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82759	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs, I would like to begin by thanking you for this name-related reflection and I must say that there have been such reflections in the Office. However, I think they need to change in that section, so the Law should be first amended then on the Ombudsman for children. So, by taking office in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children, I have been obliged to bring the Rules of Procedure before you today, i.e. which is given at the confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. I note that the last Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children was adopted at the time of its establishment in 2004. This Rules of Procedure, which is under discussion today, was discussed at the 18th session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and was also discussed at the meeting of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament and at both meetings was unanimously accepted with a proposal for confirmation, by the fact that I had previously accepted all objections made in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Rules of Procedure should have been amended or amended by the existing Rules of Procedure as a result of an increase in the scope of the work and also brought it into line with the existing situation and the applicable legislation. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed in detail by the internal structure of the Office of Advocates for the Child, Treatment, Mode of Work, way of Planning and Doing Jobs and other issues relevant to the orderly and timely conduct of the Jobs. The first amendment of the Rules of Procedure once again provides, as has been regulated by the rules of procedure so far, that the jobs of the Ombudsman for children are being carried out in the Office of the Ombudsman for children who is based in Zagreb, but in addition to the regional offices in Rijeka, Split and Osijek, which has proved to be a good solution in so far, given the easier availability for citizens. So, these regional offices have been operating normally for the past 10 years since 2007. In relation to the internal structure in the work of the Ombudsman's Office, two services, two professional services, and the Service for Professional and General Affairs, are detained, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ombudsman for Children. The work of the service shall be managed by the Deputy Advocates for Children who are responsible for the timely and effective functioning of the service they operate, by the fact that the Rules of Procedure are now framed, i.e. frameworkally elaborated powers and responsibilities of the Deputy Advocate for Children, who will be more detailedly regulated by the Sublegal Act. The Rules of Procedure also specify the provisions on conduct which are, in fact, the result of a work organisation so far or of the Office's experience both in complaints and in other segments of the Office's activities. Especially in the tours of places where children are located, where children are staying and doing insights into how children are cared for, especially children without adequate parental care, children with developmental difficulties, children with behavioral problems, children in conflict with the law, and other children in vulnerable situations. The new provisions of Art. 18. The rules of procedure are regulated in accordance with the rules on the confidentiality and data protection, and data protection in accordance with the provisions of the Data Protection Act and the principle of protection of the child's best interests. There is also regulated cooperation with the Croatian Parliament, cooperation with other defence institutions, inclusion in regulation procedures, monitoring the state of children's rights and co-operation with civil society organisations and others. The Rules of Procedure also regulates office operations as an important segment in the daily organisation of office work. The newspaper that this Rules of Procedure brings in relation to the current one is also provisions on a network of young advisers as an advisory body that makes up 20 children aged 12 to 18 who help the guardian for children by warning him of the problems and needs of his peers. These young counselors also disseminated information on children's rights in their environments and role as guardians for children and proved to be an important factor in the work of our office. Since the Rules of Procedure are also related to other acts which the Advocate General is obliged to bring upon his confirmation and which will allow for the timely and effective functioning of the Office, I appeal to us to the honourable legislators that the Rules of Procedure should be confirmed so as to ensure that the work of the Advocate General can be carried out uninterruptedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82760	Thank you, too. Mr. Hajdukovic has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82761	Thank you very much. Madam Attorney General, I just wanted to point out once again what you were saying about awareness and the children's public but also all the public about what the role of the child's attorney is, I think it's very important. Every time we discuss these defence institutions, we are talking about the need to say conditionally, the popularity of institutions, but to inform the public about what the role of the attorney's office is, or in this case, what you are doing and when you can help because we have a case that a lot of applications that come to the address of the Ombudsman are rejected because citizens often don't understand what the role of attorney is. It is also very important that children whose rights are damaged know when they can contact you or their parents know when they can contact you and when you can help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82762	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82763	I would like to thank you for your suggestion. I must say that by taking on the role of the Ombudsman for children as one of the separate priorities, I have pointed out precisely on the one hand to increase the visibility of children in the sense that this office is the voice of children or to encourage them to hear the children and to encourage as many children as possible to speak or to address the office, and on the other hand, I have also cited cooperation with other institutions that will be involved, so that everyone who deals with children or works with children, who will further point to the role or function of the Ombudsman's Office for Children so as not to view our work as a criticism but as a desire to improve or to point out the point where it is possible to improve the position of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82764	Thank you very much. It can do the same as critics, no problem. Mrs Margareta Majeric, the government's representative and state secretary at the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy will take the floor and give an additional explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very short, namely the Government of the Republic of Croatia had some remarks on the proposal of the Advocates' Rules of Procedure for Children who were mostly of a new technical nature. As we have heard, the Ombudsman for children has respected these remarks and the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the confirmation of the Rules of Procedure for Children by the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82766	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Ljubica Lukačić, will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club and I am opening the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed attorneys for children with co-workers, respected Madam Secretary of State, also with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here's the D.A. explained in detail what this new Rules of Procedure is bringing to this whiskey house for confirmation. I will simply say that these Rules of Procedure are governed by the way and organisation of work, the internal structure of the professional service and other issues important for the work of the Ombudsman for children. The remarks sent by the Government as we have heard were discussed and discussed on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Ombudsman said that these remarks would be accepted. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure on Work need to be regulated. What I think is extremely important is the newspaper in this Rules of Procedure, which is a new provision that regulates the network of young advisers. Thus, a network of young advisers will make up 20 children aged 12 to 18 who will be appointed for 3 years through a public call. These young counselors will have a role to play in counseling and help her by warning her of her problems and needs of her peers. I sincerely hope that even among those 20 young counselors, there will be at least one counselor who will have difficulty in developing, and I am sure that even though I know that at these times and your attorney's office is working with the Office of the Ombudsman for Persons with Disabilities, where children with developmental difficulties can say what is holding them back, but it is never a good chance that here and in your office there is one special attention and children with developmental difficulties, especially because today we are discussing the previous two points of the agenda, so we have a chance to hear how much violence is still happening on our children, and then unfortunately I have to point out to children with developmental difficulties further, and especially on girls with developmental difficulties. They as well as women with disabilities are three times as discriminated against and unfortunately by their loved ones and relatives. I think this Rules of Procedure is good, and with these changes, the HDZ Club will support the confirmation of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82768	Thank you, too. There's no replica. Now it's Mr. Zekanovic's turn to have an individual debate if he were present. He's not present. He's losing his right. And now Mrs. Attorney General, if he wants to say something in the end? No, good. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82769	The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman for children, confirmation, the applicant is the Ombudsman for children, the debate is concluded. During the debate, the applicant accepted the comments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on a decision to confirm the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Ombudsman for children, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 votes, and 3 votes, have been held to the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82770	And now another proposal, a proposal for one decision: - a proposal for a decision to elect two deputy attorneys for children. The proposer shall be the Ombudsman for children pursuant to Article 5 and Article 28. It's a law about a child's attorney. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant like to further explain the proposal? I think you should. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82771	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives. So in accordance with Article 28. I was obliged by the Attorney General to initiate a procedure for the selection of two deputy attorneys for children within eight days of the day of entry into office. For this reason, on 6 December 2017, the National Journal No. 121/2017 and on the website of the Ombudsman for children as well as on the portal My job has been published a public call for the collection of applications for appointments of two deputy or deputy counselors for children. On the basis of a published public call, 41 applications were received by the Deputy Advocate-General for Children. In the previous procedure for determining the formal conditions for the alternate, the Deputy Advocate-General for Children provided for in Article 4(3) and Article 23(2). The Law on Advocates for Children found that the three applications were incomplete, while 38 applications and 38 candidates were eligible for formal conditions for proposing candidates for a deputy and/or a deputy lawyer for children. After laying down the formal conditions, I held an oral interview with all the candidates reported in the period from 2 January 2018 to 12 January 2018, with the fact that there were always counselors from my office attending the interview with me, so there were no persons who made themselves known to this competition. Based on the overall process of determining the fulfilment of the conditions, working experience, professional knowledge, results achieved in the work so far and the willingness of candidates to act as deputies, it has been established that candidates Marija Gabelica Šupljika and Ivana Buljan Ajlic are best suited to the requirements and tasks of the Deputy Advocate for Children. Mrs. Master of the Sc. Marija Gabelica Šupljika is the current deputy attorney for children who is present today, psychologist by profession, professional experience gained in the institutions of education and education, health and higher education, and in the Office of Advocates for Children as a psychologist in the field of rights and protection of children, early development, education and education, psycho diagnostics, counselling, research and higher education. At the workplace of the Deputy Advocate General for Children, she shall conduct a professional service, coordinate her work and shall be responsible for drawing up annual and other reports on the work of the Ombudsman for children and on the state of individual children's rights. For years she was an external associate lecturer at the Faculty of Teachers in Petrinja and Zagreb and at the Department of Psychology of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb where she has the status of a higher lecturer. She taught at home and international scientific and professional gatherings and public hearings, she is the author of fifty professional papers in the field of development and social psychology, psychology of sports and children's rights, co-author of several manuals for parents and educators in the field of psychosocial assistance to children, cooperation with parents of early education and education, children's rights and models and concepts of child protection. Close to its area of interest are early development and human rights of preschool children, rights of children whose parents are in prison, sports and physical activities in childhood, pictures and privacy of children in the media, intergenerational development, health rights, parenting and models and institutions for the protection and promotion of children's rights. She is an editor of the Chamber Positive facilities for children and children, the House of First Children whose parents are in prison, published in the publication of the Ombudsman’s office for children. She is a member of the Croatian Psychological Chamber and European Network for Children whose parents are in prison, she is the winner of the Ivan Filipović State Prize for Preschool Education and Psychological Award Marko Marulić for a particularly valuable contribution, applied to psychology by the Croatian Psychological Society. In her current work at the Ombudsman’s children’s office, she pointed out by making several proposals and recommendations aimed at the best interests of children and in preparing and delivering expert discussions, as well as advisory work with applicants. Very analytical approaches to professional topics, competent and prepared to work in the field of professional business with express sensitivity to human and organisational resources, and shows a strong interest in team and interdisciplinary professional approach. With its qualifications, qualities and professional knowledge and achievements, it meets the demands and work tasks of the deputy lawyer for children, it is not a member of any political party. Another proposed candidate, Ivana Buljan Ajlic, is the magistrate's rights with a passed judicial exam, which is currently employed in the affairs of the prosecutor's advisor for legal affairs. Professional experience in the legal profession has been gained through work in the law office, in the office of the occupier and as an intern under the United Nations Development Programme for Croatia in Zagreb and Chambers of Anthony Berry in London. Volunteering in non-profit organizations, organizations and... from Turin and Croatian missionaries, she dealt with the protection of human rights, especially the victims of human trafficking, and helped organise donations, school construction and educational activities aimed at children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She completed a specialist master's degree in Turin from international, humanitarian and criminal law. She participated and taught at numerous domestic and international scientific and professional meetings, public stands and conferences. In professional work, the European Court of Human Rights' practice and monitoring and promoting the harmonisation of laws and other rules with international human rights legal acts and recommendations of international bodies has been pursued. She participated in the preparation of reports to international organisations, co-operated with the UN Subcommittee and the European torture prevention committee and international institutions and NGOs dealing with the prevention of torture. According to the current employer's assessments, the work is done effectively and efficiently, showing an exceptional level of expertise and competence in the performance of jobs and a high degree of innovation and creativity in the work. The scope of its interest is the protection of persons deprived of freedom, protection against torture and torture, protection of refugees, especially vulnerable groups such as children without parental escort and the protection of victims of human trafficking. With its qualifications, professional experience and achievements and motivation, it meets the demands and work tasks of the assistant attorney for children. She's not a member of any political party. In line with the above, I propose to the Croatian Parliament to elect Maria Gabelica Šupljika and Ivana Buljan Ajelic as the deputy attorney for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82772	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will be a respected representative of Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Attorney with your associate. Well, in her opening statement, the lawyer explained in detail why she suggested these two candidates for her deputies. The Ombudsman therefore issued a public call for the appointment of two deputies or a deputy lawyer for children and, on the basis of the verified procedure for determining, fulfilling the conditions, working experience, professional knowledge, results achieved in the work so far, and the willingness of candidates for the behaviour of the deputy attorney for children, established that the candidates of the Master of Science Marija Gabelica Šupljika and the magistrate of the rights of Ms. Ivana Buljan Ajelic meet the conditions in order to appoint the Deputy Advocate for Children. Therefore, the Advocate General has also proposed that this House decide on the appointment of the proposed candidates as its deputies. The Croatian Democratic Community club will support the decision as proposed by the Ombudsmans for children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82774	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And that concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82775	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of two Deputy Advocates for Children, the Proposer is the Advocate for Children, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the selection of Maria Gabelica Šupljika and Ivana Buljan Ajelic as the Deputy Advocate for Children, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for and 2 abstentions, have been decided on the election of Maria Gabelica Šupljika and Ivana Buljan Ajelic as the deputy attorney for children. Article 25 The Law on the Ombudsman for children is laid down to be the Ombudsman for children and his deputies to swear before the meeting of the Croatian Parliament before their entry into office. Now we're going to take the oath of the new Deputy Attorney General. After reading the text of the oath, I will call the deputy attorneys who pronounce the word "I swear." The text of the oath reads: “I swear that in my work I will stick to the Constitution and the law, respect the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and that I will carry out my duty in the justice, honor, conscientiously and impartially in the best interests of children.” Marija Gabelica Šupljika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82776	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82777	Ivana Buljan Ajelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82778	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82779	Congratulations to the Deputy Advocate General for the children on their sworn oath... And I wish her success in performing this honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82780	We will now move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, an emergency procedure, first and second, P.Z. No. 290 The applicant shall be the SDP representative club based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82781	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The conflict of interest is such behaviour that most citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not prohibited because most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not prohibited from sharing their interests, sharing their loyalty. Sometimes it's loyalty to family, sometimes it's loyalty to friends, relatives, or employers. However, there is a group of people who are forbidden to share loyalty in such a way. They're politicians. And the reason for that is quite clear, when citizens choose someone on duty then they have every right to ask that person, me, the vice president or any of us sitting here in a pay phone, ask that their duty to whom they are elected be an absolute priority. In order to ensure that such living in practice and not just some thought of guidance that should be a guideline for all of us, we have passed the Law on preventing conflicts of interest. And by that law, we have defined a whole series of behaviors that are forbidden to politicians, officials. Some of these behaviours also withdraw concrete sanctions, monetary or any other evidence of certain remaining spheres of caution or determination that such behaviour is not permitted, as we have, for example, in several cases when the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest found a breach of the principle of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest as in the case of then Deputy Prime Minister of Mr Karamark, President of the Republic, etc. Who does this law apply to? Not on anyone. Not to the people I or you think the law should apply to them. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest applies exclusively to those persons defined by that law as officials. Therefore, not to any official, not to the official, because he is defined by the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials, the Law on Parliamentary Representatives, etc., but because he is a legislator in Article 3(1). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest made one list, a list of those persons considered to be officials within the meaning of the law and who must implement its provisions. To be honest, I felt that reading this law also included an extraordinary commissioner in societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia is certainly within the circle of those persons to whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest applies. For what? Well, for a very simple reason. Because the Law on Extraordinary Administration makes it very clear what way an extraordinary commissioner is fighting. The extraordinary commissioner is not elected by the court, he is not elected by the credentials, he is not proposed by the previous owner of the company over which the extraordinary administration is conducted, he is proposed solely by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and no one else. The government of the Republic of Croatia as the main executive body of the Republic of Croatia is the only authorised proponent of an extraordinary commissioner, but not only that, as we have seen in the case of Mr Ramljak when he was relieved of his duties is the only authorised to launch the procedure for his replacement. And the court only has a formal role in all of this. As a result, at the end of last year, I asked the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest to show whether the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are applicable to the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, their response was strictly formal, and they concluded that the law does not apply. Now the question is, do we even need to get into a law like this? Should an extraordinary Commissioner in societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia be within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest? Some will say why, so it's a private company anyway. But respected colleagues and colleagues, it is indeed a private company if we consider only its ownership as exclusive and the only criterion for determining whether the state has the concrete and most decisive rights to manage those companies. But reality is different. It's a private society, but it's a state-run society. It's a society where, from the moment the extraordinary administration procedure begins, the main role of the state is played. We've had opportunities to see in the last year and something, and in the last week particularly intensely how the creation of the Law on Extraordinary Administration has taken place. We learned that there was a group of individuals gathered around the former Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Dalic, who chose a very interesting name for herself, called themselves the BORG group, hoping to assimilate all of us in her collective, who had been preparing for months to pass this law for months. But not only was she preparing to pass that law, she consulted some other people here and there. In particular, when we talk about the issue of conflict of interest related to the extraordinary administration, they also consulted the professor of commercial law and the rights of companies from the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb, a respected colleague of Miladin, and asked him for an opinion on this law. And fellow Miladin made it clear and loud to them, in the Law on Extraordinary Administration modeling the Italian lex Parmalate which was also a model for the adoption of this law, you need to install provisions that will define who may be an extraordinary manager, who may be the Prime Commissioner, but not only that, you need to install provisions that he can regulate with whom he can make deals with, with whom he can work. But the Borg group, like we had a chance to read, deafened to it, she said, "Who cares?" So how are we going to choose our own man if we put such crazy provisions into the law? And they didn't install them. And what did we have after that? We had a conflict of interest. Every day in every way. The lawyer's office that wrote the law, which every day communicated with Mr. Ramljak about what the law would look like to become the power of extraordinary administration. You will remember, in this House we talked about, the famous ones, already now famous e-mail addresses extraordinary.Government@shaborić.com But there is no care. Gentlemen from the Borg group have gathered and made a decision on who will become an adviser to the restructuring of Agrokor, who will become chief adviser to the extraordinary administration. And why did they choose this particular bidder? So because they had previously agreed with him, they were also convinced that he would allow them to do jobs later and put a million in their pocket each month. And what is it, colleagues and colleagues, is a conflict of interest between persons who should have worked for the benefit of those who named them, which is the Republic of Croatia, which, because we said in the law, has an interest that companies that are of systemic importance do not go into regular insolvency proceedings. We have concluded that there must be a special procedure in them. But we haven't installed any protective mechanisms to prevent those who carry out this procedure from being immune to the corrupt pressures that are present in such a high position every day. By proposing this law from the ruling we had the opportunity to hear several remarks. I'll let myself talk to some of them. One of the basic remarks, and besides such a remark goes almost every time the opposition proposes one concrete measure is we prepare the law over a few weeks, months, and perhaps by the end of the year, we will come up with a bill. And then what do we find out? That the bill on the prevention of conflicts of interest for Mrs. Rimac, a politician who has repeatedly been the subject of the Commission's action to decide on a conflict of interest because of her behaviour, because of her behaviour. So who did we trust to do this law? Dear Secretary of State, I have received information, and the entire public has been informed that Mrs. Rimac has been removed from that position and I am extremely pleased with it, at least in one part the pressure of the opposition has yielded fruit. But the claim that because we're passing the whole law, we can't intervene in this way is wrong. This is an acute problem. We've got to work this out. That we adopted this when the SDP proposed, so in February 2018. It would already apply to Mr. Peru, and we could question today whether the new Commissioner in Agrokor is in the same conflict of interest as he was before, and for his conflict of interest, I think there is no doubt about it anymore. The only question is whether his behaviour is only within the scope of the Committee's decision on conflict of interest or for another institution that protects a little more comprehensive interests and rights of the Republic of Croatia? But we missed it, we missed it. And the excuse to pass a comprehensive law can't be an excuse, just as it couldn't be with the Executive Act, the Law on Mandatory Relations, etc. here especially because this is about enormous amounts and this is about so many express corruption pressures that the Republic of Croatia has never seen before, except perhaps in the FIMI MEDIA case. The second remark that the respected government colleagues made when they showed themselves to this law is the claim that this law should not be adopted because then we will subject all the bankruptcy managers in the Republic of Croatia to control the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. But respected colleagues from the government, respected colleagues from the ruling majority, the bankruptcy manager, for example, a limited liability company with 10 employees and 3.4 million kuna traffic annually is not the same as the extraordinary commissioner in companies of, read the name of the law, the systemic meaning for the Republic of Croatia. Well, by the very name of the law, you've given special meaning to what that law covers, alone. You chose the name, I do not apologize, Mr. Šavoric said that the Deputy Prime Minister should choose his own name so that he will not interfere with it. So the Deputy Prime Minister has chosen a name and defined that this is about companies of systemic importance in which the Government and only the Government has the power to initiate a procedure for appointing and then resolve an extraordinary commissioner. In bankruptcy proceedings, the Republic of Croatia has no right to do so. Unless she's also a creditor of a creditor, and then she has no right to name anyone, she has no right to name anyone just because she's agreed with the Deputy Prime Minister for months to take over Agrokor and before taking over the INA or HEP. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There, that person must be on the list of bankruptcy managers. She had to pass certain tests, she had to show that she had certain expertise. For the extraordinary administration the government said no, we will propose, and the court will appoint. And finally, the government's final objection is that this would endanger the ability of an extraordinary commissioner to act because you imagine, he has the role of the company's authorities. And I'm asking you, dear fellow Secretary of State, is the president of HEP's administration a member of the company's body? Is the president of HEP administration a member of the administration that is in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies one of the bodies of a company called Croatian Electricity? It is. And does the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest apply to him? It's applied. And now I'm asking you why HEP can, and Agrokor can't. Although neither the fact that we are not fooling ourselves, nor the fact that someone is within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in itself is a guarantee of a conflict of interest or a god of corruption will not be. It's not a guarantee. But it makes it easier for us as citizens of this country to see corruption sometimes before it happens, in rare situations, too rare, but that's why and when it happens we see it before. And that's why we in the SDP think this is absolutely necessary to adopt. We believe, however, that it was necessary to listen to fellow Miladin when he assured the Borg group that what they were planning to do was inadmissible and in such a way to take over the governance of Agrokor. That's when it wasn't accepted. It would be better if it were accepted then, and if it wasn't then, then at least in February when we suggested it, and when the ruling didn't have a hearing then it would be good to do it now. Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82782	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first came from a respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grbin, everything you've said shows to what extent it's too late to accept our proposal. He would not experience the conflict of interest of epic proportions that we can study school at the writing of lex-Agrocor, at its implementation and which showed that the old proverb is worth changing hair and temperament because HDZ can change presidents, today there is no Tudjman, no Sanader, no Jadranka Kosor, no Karamark, there is Plenkovic, therefore the presidents are changing, but HDZ remains a party of dangerous intentions, a party marked in which in each case their core remains a conflict of interest and corruption paid by Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82784	Thank you. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82785	Dear colleague Jovanovic, I agree most of the time with what you said, but in one part, I think you made a serious mistake. I don't think you should have put Mrs. Kosor in the same circle of people as Ivo Sanader, Tomislav Karamarko and Andrej Plenkovic. They are still class to themselves, and how much Mrs. Kosor doesn't fit all of this is visible from how fast they kicked her out of HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82786	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82787	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, in your statement you pointed out that the Commissioner should be part of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and that is very clear why. Because, in the very copy of the Borg Group which had designed for HDZ and the Government, the Law lex-Agrokor insisted that they were not elected by a bankruptcy, or commissioner in Agrokor, but rather elected by the Government or proposed by the Government and elected by the Court. If the Government proposes an extraordinary Commissioner in Agrokor himself, then it is logical that if the public authority gives rise to his function to be with his property, the data is publicly available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So that's the key, and that's why this is proposed because the government obviously wanted to have full control over who they were going to name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82788	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82789	Dear colleague Maras, as I was saying earlier, is an extraordinary commissioner in societies that we created a year and a month ago, and before that, there was no such concept in the Croatian legal system. So, in societies of systemic significance. If we have defined that some trading company is of systemic importance to the Republic of Croatia, so what more do we need to tell us that there is a public interest in supervision, to control who will be the head of a trading company that is of systemic importance to the Republic of Croatia? I don't even have that kind of problem with the government choosing, but I have a problem with how the government has chosen in a specific case. I have a serious problem with that. I have a serious problem that someone with the Vice-President of the Government has been agreeing for two months that Agrokor will take over and will then draw money from it without us having absolutely no control mechanism to prevent it. Because that's what we have a problem with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82790	The answer of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Oh, I'm sorry. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grbin, you said that the main role in this process is state. The commissioner is not on the payroll of the state, the religious council is companies that are creditors paid by the commissioner, the state doesn't give a single kuna of budget money in this whole process, so I really don't understand how you think the main role of the country is. And I'm asking myself one more question, while you've now inaugurated the bill's proposal. And what if the commissioner was someone who wasn't a Croatian citizen? What if the commissioner was someone from America, from Germany, from another country. It could have been, right? How would we solve it, and how would we solve this problem at all if it were a very short time of year or year and three months of total time, as long as the mandate of the Commissioners lasted?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82792	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82793	Dear colleague Hrg, answer the question you asked me is not difficult at all. Until a year and six months ago, we had a Canadian citizen who was on temporary duty in the Republic of Croatia, for a year he acted as Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Did that stop him from reporting on the property? It's not. We had Minister Mia Montenegro for five days was a minister, does that mean he couldn't have been in conflict of interest? However, conflict of interest is what marked his mandate. Don't mix pears and apples. As far as the law is concerned, the laws of the Republic of Croatia have a territorial validity, so they apply throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia to all those who are here. Anyone who accepts a job in the Republic of Croatia accepts the rights and obligations arising from the Croatian legal order. Had this law been in force, it would have referred to any extraordinary Commissioner in Agrokor, regardless of whether he was a citizen of Croatia, BiH, Canada or some 27 countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82794	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82795	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. I support your initiative to discuss this subject. That's probably why you filed this amendment to the law, but technically, you're fixing it irreparably. So now that you're a lawyer, you're supposed to fix the law written by Ante Ramljak, which just doesn't make sense. You are now actually putting yourself in the position of Mr. Miladin or Mrs. Garasic who tried to do the same until the law was passed, so you saw the ruling majority react. She makes fun of it and completely ignores it, so she'll probably ignore you later when the cameras go out and make fun of you. So you're asking what control mechanisms are, unfortunately in this assembly there are none. There was once a dear God above the Parliament, and today it seems that only dear Borg is above the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82796	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82797	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you may be right, I may be chasing the windmills, I may be doing a useless job, but I believe that I have a very high responsibility for those who have chosen me, if I don't already propose a law that will be passed, and then at least show the ruling majority that neither now when everyone in the Republic of Croatia is fully clear how the Deputy Prime Minister is directly, and the Prime Minister is unfairly tolerated by the way in which they have allowed a robbery of giant proportions that can be compared, when we speak in the last few years, only with the one in Fimi Media. So this law we saw it and on committees it will not be adopted, ruling it not accepted. But let them come out, let them go out for this pay phone, let them try to explain to the Croatian public if they even know what the reasons are to be against something like this. I can't accept it, and I can't understand it, but let them try.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82798	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your fellow coat of arms, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, has written a conclusion as to what he thinks about your question. In principle, I say that the state officials prescribed in this article and those appointed by the Government and the Parliament are subject to the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Therefore, there are no persons appointed by the Croatian judiciary, regardless of what the government proposes, this should be put aside. On the other hand, this proposal is not consistent because you can only consider it to be an official who manages more than 5,000 employees and 7.5 billion kunas of income. Which means that someone who manages 4800 and 7 billion and 400 per you are not the same person who should be. I am telling you this because this should be dealt with systematically by what the Government is telling you, and it is changing the law and predicting not only this Commissioner but also other bankruptcy managers in the Republic of Croatia. So it's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82800	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82801	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you know I wouldn't miss this. Comrade Bačić, come on, for a wonderful miracle, I agree completely with you. Suggest a bankruptcy law to regulate how we will control the conflict of interest of bankruptcy managers, my support you have for it immediately. I'm telling you right now, whether my club is against it, I'll agree with you, I think bankruptcy managers should be closely monitored and you're right. But my esteemed colleague, Bacic, did not determine the conditions for someone to be a trading company of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, though. I was one of the ones who called you because of the conditions you set at the very beginning. I was one of those who showed you that according to the first proposal, this applies exclusively to Agrokor and not to any other company in Croatia. You then corrected the law and you then set these conditions. And now you're calling me because of what you wrote in the law. Defend this a little bit better for a colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82802	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, please, I asked you nicely not to throw us out of the bench. When you get your turn, you'll be able to say anything you want. I won't give you a warning if you won't insult anyone or any travel orders either. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Most will now speak the esteemed representative of Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82803	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Act on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia introduced the concept of an extraordinary administration and an extraordinary commissioner appointed by the court on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is a specific and new institution and it is not a classical state official, but we believe that in the case of an extraordinary commissioner, it is a person the executive authority has a decisive influence on his appointment and of course it is a political decision in which the court has only a formal role and it is questionable whether the court can at all reject the Government's proposal on the appointment of Commissioners. We feel the same way, and unfortunately it has proved that it is possible for an extraordinary commissioner to be exposed and found in a conflict of interest. And that is exactly why this institution should be incorporated into the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. On request, as counterpart Grbin said, the Committee on Conflict of Interest has formally replied that an extraordinary commissioner is not considered to be an official or acting official and is not subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The bill proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club suggests that an extraordinary commissioner in trading societies of systemic importance be an official in terms of the law. The draft law was submitted at the beginning of February of this year by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 8 March of this year and in its negative opinion did not agree that the extraordinary Commissioner should be a state official in terms of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Let's not go any further, I absolutely agree on this issue with the arguments put forward in the bill, and the MOST Representatives' Club will also support the proposal in the vote. What we expect is to be made known by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I expected it before, after the applicant's presentation, but the reason why we think it is necessary for the Proposer to make a statement is this: so the Government gave a negative opinion on March 8th, and a little later, in particular on April 17th, so about a month ago in the newspaper, a specific article in the Vecernji list is published over almost a whole page entitled, quote: The future also will be an extraordinary commissioner in system companies. However, the journalist who writes the article does not place that name on the basis of what colleagues and colleagues from the SDP are proposing and does not talk so much about the bill that SDP has issued in the debate, but is talking about what the Ministry of Administration will propose in the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. The article on the entire page also discusses a series of changes that the ministry foresees as changes, amendments and additions to the law. And then the following is stated, now I'm going to quote what's in that article. In this article, it says: There is special news that under the new law an extraordinary commissioner from the Law on Extraordinary Administration in Systemically Important Companies will also be a state official. This provision will not apply to Fabris Peru because the Emergency Administration Act will cease to apply on 10 July, unless the law changes and extends the deadline to the extraordinary administration and the adoption of a new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is foreseen for the fourth quarter of this year, so after the end of the extraordinary administration in Agrokor. And now it follows: if already an extraordinary commissioner, an official, at the beginning and at the end of his term of office, he would have to submit to the commission the property card as well as substantiate the property of his spouse or extramarital partner as well as young children and answer other questions about the origin of his property. So this is an article written by a journalist asking the Ministry of Administration as a resolute ministry for making amendments and supplementing the law, which will include a future proposal to amend the law. So in April of this year, the Ministry of Administration responded that, among other changes and additions, an extraordinary commissioner in systemically important companies would be a state official. I'm asked a logical question, what exactly is it now? Is what the government's opinion of March of this year negatively showing about the bill submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club? or what is being prepared by the Ministry of Administration, but with a delay for the end of this year, but the article clearly states that the position of the Ministry of Administration, which has never been denied, I assume that the journalist objectively wrote everything in that article, from which the Ministry of Administration also considers that an extraordinary Commissioner should be a state official within the meaning of the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. If that is true, and I would ask that, after my presentation, the Secretary of State is manifested, because it turns out that the Ministry of Administration actually has the same position as the SDP Representatives' Club and the Most Representatives' Club and that it should support this bill proposal, but of course not with a delay for the end of the year but now that the law is proposed and when it will soon be voted on. So, the Club of Representatives of the Most will support this bill. It is absolutely necessary for a Commissioner in Systemically Important Companies to be an official within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, no matter how much this will apply to the current Commissioner now, but as we have always said, it is not a law that will apply to only one company, today it is possible to refer to several companies even though God grant that it is never again applied to any systemically important company in the Republic of Croatia. But we think that it is absolutely necessary for the secretary of state from the Ministry of Administration to tell us what the position of the ministry and government is because there is definitely a dispute between what the government has said in its statement to the bill and what has been announced that the Ministry of Administration is preparing as part of its draft amendments and amendments to the law for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82804	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82805	Very short. Mr. Honorable Representative. I don't even know why you're surprised, that they were a month after they refused to say they would do what they refused. So the first thing they refused to do was ask for Mr Barisic's recall, so they replaced him, so they refused us Mrs Dalic's shift request a month ago, so they replaced her. And then the other day, we were denied the executive law that they defended in the Constitutional Court's decision. Now they refuse us a bill that they said after a month should be put into law. So they're so-called. We're just reminding ourselves that we've talked about some things before, that we've predicted them before and that what we're talking about is going to happen in a short time, including what we're going to send today, and that's the proposal for a decision to disband the Parliament. Therefore, there is no place of surprise, we propose and predict events that will happen, and this will soon be found in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or in the Banking Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82806	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative Robert Podolnjak will be replicating. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82807	Dear colleague Bauk. I didn't express my surprise, I just realized that there were opposing views of the government from March and the Ministry of Administration of April. What's logical is to expect us to hear an explanation. I think that not only us MPs who are now following the debate here, but also the Croatian public has the right to hear what is the position of both the Ministry of Administration and the Government. And we expect that it will now be on behalf of the Ministry and the Government, because you are actually here in a double capacity, and it is precisely good for you to state your position, and I would be pleased that the Ministry of Administration would indeed, as mentioned in this newspaper article, really believe that an extraordinary commissioner would have to be in charge of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and that you can still say that position publicly in front of the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82808	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82809	I just wanted to further point out that what you noticed is not only, so it is now the continuity of politics to change its mind in a month. As for Mrs. Dalic, within two days, an opinion has changed. On Friday, there was nothing new in e-mails on Sunday that could already be seen from these situations and expressions as being a little distant from Mrs. Dalic, and then she resigned on Monday. So probably, not until the end of this debate, but in the most recent time, the government will propose a law in which it will write exactly what we have written, as it will suggest, and perhaps the executive law in which it will write what we have written, and as it will suggest much other than what we have written, and they have not suggested, because so, I can quote one famous Croatian thinker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82810	The next is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82811	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that we support this proposal that came from the opposition, specifically from the SDP. If such a law had become in time, Ramljak would have come to the Committee's agenda to prevent conflicts of interest long ago. However, as we heard today in the debate over the very entry into force, even if the vote does not come at all. Well, first of all, it is necessary at the beginning of my speech today to condemn all that has happened in the last days, not only to condemn, we condemn myself and our colleagues and the opposition for a good year, but now I don't like it when we're right, because it means that it wasn't good, it means that it's going to be a job for the institutions, and that means that the entire trust of Croatian citizens in politics, politicians, everything that's connected to politics like public administration, such as the institutions that are appointed from this House and everything else. It's that a man simply doesn't believe. So here's before we go for a sucus, I'd just do a short chronology. 3.3. in the premises of Texo Management there is a meeting of the Borg Working Group to work on a law which, today known as lex Agrokor or the Law on extraordinary management in enterprises of systemic significance for the Republic of Croatia 23.3. early 3rd month last year, 13rd is the same meeting at the Ministry of Economy, 19.3rd meeting in InterCapital rooms with the words of the least people will see us. Obviously someone was hiding from the public, obviously people shouldn't have seen, not just random passersby, but the whole public, and especially this Parliament. The intensity is clear that everything wanted to hide. On 22.3rd, a task force is meeting in the government, 10.4. lex is in force for the appointment of Ramljaks. I remember these days, Prime Minister Plenkovic suddenly gathered the opposition there in the Banski dvori and told us here is the crisis in Agrokor not good and we have to do something, here we have prepared the law, but only in the worst case of extreme circumstances if the Constitution, laws and the market and then again the Constitution, the laws and the market don't do their job. For the next week, after the express procedure, there is no debate from the clear, the voting from the clear is gone, and in the People's Newspaper they were waiting for a short start immediately in the National newspaper and already at the end of that week Ramljak came to his post. And Mr. Alvarez probably bothered this Borg team if he didn't want to play by their rules, didn't let any immoral activities be done, he was simply driven away. 12.4. A very important date today, you will see why this is a very important date, because then the names of eight assistants and their companies that will help Mr. Ramljak have been published. Well, here's a few articles from 12.4. Which from the left, which from the right portals clearly shows that there are some people involved in counseling. The public were not known for anything at the time, so to speak, Mr Branimir Bricelj and Mark Delic of alter, we know them from correspondence, Tomislav Matic, Mr Šavoric, etc. At that time because we didn't know this background who wrote it, that information wasn't very valuable. But this moment is very valuable because now we can connect what was before and what was later. And there are those, and we know who those ministers are, Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance, Prime Minister Plenkovic and others who knew and what they were before and who got jobs afterwards. 25.4. Ramljak chooses Alix Partners American firm, on the same day Alix Partners as chief advisor gives sub-businesses under consultants I would say among them are Texo Management his own firm, InterCapital, alter and others. And two days later, there was a shooting of the HDZ and Most coalition. Here is no longer important Martina Dalic, let's say the ruling majority defended Minister Dalic despite all the accusations and all the failures from the shipbuilding to Agrokor to LNG within the last year, let them now ask her what we have defended because obviously you have recognized yourself in those mistakes and you have burdened both the Government and us so much that you can no longer be a minister. Mr. Plenkovic is clear from these e-mails, so this authenticity nobody slows down, even the actors confirmed that it was and the question is whether it was all from communication, I don't believe, will probably still come out in the coming time. The question arises why right now? Someone kept it for a year, why just now a day or two after the Constitutional Court approved Lex Agrokor? That's what we have to ask ourselves as the old Romans, who's using it, who's using it right now to let you know? But time will reveal that truth, if not already Croatian investigative institutions. Mr. Plenkovic knew in February that a group of Borg was forming, he knew that a group was gathering and organizing under the leadership of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, he knew that the Borg group was not meeting without meaning, even though it was meeting in restaurants and pubs, rather than meeting to write lex Agrokor, he knew that the group, which is seen from correspondence, would choose its man, its commissioner. Be careful not of any commissioner, says Šavoric, but of our man, our commissioner of the agenda, precisely with intent it was all done. He knew that Alix Partners would be brought in, and in the end he knew that the jobs would be given to the same subcontractors Alter, Tex, InterCapital and many others. Now that's completely clear. From our e-mails, we've seen the situation before, and we know from the public what happened after, and we add up two and two, all of them through one. Right, you're asking the minister probably didn't blow up her political career. There are some who are likely to throw a celebration for everything she's done with her involvement in politics in that chronic capitalism as they call it, but in public life, I think her career is forever over. It might not be disputed if these experts from the Borg group had just written a law within the Ministry of Economy or that they had just, just got these consulting jobs or had just advised here Ramljak is the best so we pit him for the Commissioner. However, they are not only, they are all first and second and third and fourth and fifth and sixth with intent and all secret. And again they ask the old Romans, who is he using? Well, it's them, and it's Ramljak, and it's Matic, and it's Bricel, and it's Shavoric, and I'm calling on the institutions from this place to examine both the proceeds and the assets and the prime ministers and ministers in the government that one of them has not received any benefit. Instead of doing all the public, it was publicly announced who would work for that task force to work through institutions, primarily through the Ministry of Economy, not everything was secretly done in the offices. It is also interesting that Texo Management is registered on Ilica 1A address where both Šavoric and partners are registered. The question is asked by the Ministry of Economy is a large ministry, it has changed the name and portfolios many times why we pay hundreds I guess there are hundreds, I'm looking for still a list of jobs I haven't received over the parliamentary issue, hundreds of experts at the Ministry of Economy which legal, which economists, economists, financial experts, I don't know what they're dealing with, why we're giving them huge salaries for years, and when something needs to be done we avoid, we don't need to go black. The logical question arises, why such a waste of resources? It is a very interesting fact that on the Committee on Economy, it is a question of what is the connection of Minister Dalic with Šavoric that she said nothing, but we know today that Mr. Šavoric worked for Agrokor for ten days at a time of extraordinary administration. She knew it all and had to know it. And why did she have to know? Because e-mails show that not only at the time of the extraordinary administration but since February she knew everything. So it's a pure lie. And not only was it a lie but it was a lie all this time about writing Lex Agrokor. Just remember one whole year of uncertainty about public deception, the demeaning of the subject in order to get it back on the subject of writing that it fell. It's an incredible set of events. Scandalous is it also what exactly Ante Ramljak as one of the authors and one of the members of the Borg group intervened in making this law in a way that he did what? First, the Commissioner can't be a bankruptcy manager, someone on the list of bankruptcy managers, not that it has to be a special man. First intervention. And the second thing, it's not like a bankruptcy manager will be responsible for his business, Ramljak will not be responsible for what he intends to do but will be responsible for the Republic of Croatia. Second pass. If the names of the people who wrote the law were published on 1.4, these people would never get consulting jobs. However, since we have not experienced a serious conflict of interest, abuse of privileged information, abuse of the situation of private and public interference, of course, to the harm of the public. All this Mr. Plenkovic knew or had to know could really be a shame to him that he was still pretending that nothing was happening and that he was still hiding from these facts. And who's gonna lose the most here? Clearly, suppliers, workers, Croatian public all this is actually a threat to the settlement. It does not endanger Secretary Dalic's shift settlement and the political crisis, the settlement is jeopardising the very corruption that has led to the political crisis. Who's gonna benefit the most from this? The one not to say Satan in London, Ivica Todorovic, he's exulting now, so I did tell you that they organized themselves to steal me, so I'm right all the time. And not only am I right, I will now be in court when they hand me over to Croatia to say that they are politically haunting me, I will prove to them that e-mails are ultimately the greatest evidence. On this basis, he will likely go to try to break the settlement and not just on that basis and on those reports that are not made properly. Mr. Ramljak, when appointed Commissioner, had to make the state of the company Agrokor concert, what the debts, what the assets, claims and everything else the audit profession requires, he did not do, audit, PVC was fenced from a whole series of these figures. I gave here an analysis of the public to the press it could be the foundation of one day to tear down this whole story. And now, as if that wasn't enough, it wasn't enough of these peripheries with the Council of Prophets now and this corruption, so Todorovic is overjoyed. The HDZ accused some of the opposition of working for Todorovic, who is now working for Todorovic, who will help Todorov the most now and don't let God sue Croatia for damages and I don't know what either. It's very interesting this timing, I've heard a few theories about who's placed this at this time and why, probably none of them are true, and maybe they are, but this is accurate information. More amazing than anyone in the Borg group has betrayed the minister and the other colleagues and placed this information and someone has been keeping this information for the moment. Maybe it's someone from the unsettled people at Prime Minister Plenkovic's, maybe it's someone from the Bridge who was in power at the time, maybe it's Mr. Todorovic himself over some channels. It will be very interesting to see who placed it and more importantly why right now. Why not a year ago when two and two were able to add up who wrote and who got the jobs? This could all be summed up at the latest on 1 May 2017. No, now it suits someone. Once again, we will support this law in the hope that it will help curb corruption in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82812	Thank you very much. My colleague Sincic, you are of the 14 minutes you've spoken literally none of you have committed to this law, but you've talked about everything else. I deliberately let you know that you're violating the Rules of Procedure and talking about topics that are not related to this law so you don't say that I don't know, ruling trying to shut something up, etc. But I ask all the following speakers to stick to the subject, the subject is this law as did previous speakers. Here's my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82813	The Honored Chairman of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, is the opposite of what you are talking about on the subject of conflict of interest, presented the overall chronology of events around Agrokor and I think it was an important and important exhibition that was to be heard here in the Croatian Parliament and closely related to this topic and the reasons why the SDP started with this initiative. And I'd ask you to let the MPs speak freely on that subject, we all know why we're discussing this today. Besides, my colleague Sincic was just discussing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82814	I'm assessing, of course, that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured and I'm staying with what I said. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82815	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. By carrying out this observation related to the discussion of the esteemed colleague Sincic, you have injured an article. 186. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which defines the way the debate is held at the plenary session. I don't know if you're familiar with that article, so I'll read it to you. The Parliament's session is about the bill's proposal as a rule of common debate and discussion on details. What the esteemed colleague Sincic has now done is something called a general debate. He talked about the subject and talked about the reasons for the law and I don't see how he hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82816	I know very well, as you know the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hurt him, and I'm not really a colleague of Sincic's, I didn't give him a warning, I didn't give him anything. I just asked other colleagues in a similar way as you were sticking to the subject when you exposed and explained this law, so that others would stick to the subject. And this generality story, etc. It can lead us anywhere and everywhere. So let's go, comrade Bunjac, here we go. And you think the Rules of Procedure got hurt? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82817	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, you've hurt your ankle. 186, where it says that it is allowed to speak in general and that it is allowed to discuss details. So, the SDP submitted a proposal to amend the law directly concerning Agrokor and the extraordinary commissioner and representative Sincic talked all the time about the creation of that law and about the extraordinary commissioner. So, he was in no way detached from the subject and simply, if you really had that intensity not to silence him then you could refrain from this final commentary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82818	Yes, of course, I'm staying with what I said and I'm holding that the Rules of Procedure is not hurt, and I'm staying with the one that I'm asking everyone to stick to the subject. And now, on behalf of the government, the Honorable Secretary of State Darko Nekic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82819	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all MPs and MPs. Here, the esteemed representative of the coat of arms spoke extensively about the argument, mentioning the government's opinion, but I would point to a part that you forgot to quote in your presentation. So the government is explaining why you rejected this proposal and mentioned two arguments that you did not quote in your presentation. So, compared to the provision of the article. 2. The proposal of your law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, points out that the said provision is retroactive since it stipulates that all proceedings will be completed before the law enters into force according to the provisions of the law. In this connection, the provision of the Article shall be referred to. 90th, 4th and 5th. The Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court under which the laws and regulations of the national authorities and bodies which have public authority cannot have a return effect, and for particularly justified reasons only certain provisions of the law may have a return effect. You did not mention this in your presentation, and this also stands in the government's view as well as the fact that the Government has ordered the Ministry of Justice to, or to task the Ministry of Justice to prepare appropriate legal proposals that should regulate ethical norms that would regulate all issues of conflict of interest in non-solence proceedings. As for the questions mentioned by the esteemed representative Podolnjak, so I did not read the interview of 17.4., it seems to me that you mentioned, in the Evening List, I do not know what the journalist wrote, but we are here to defend the official position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was expressed in the letter or in the opinion of 8 March 2018. What you said exactly is that the Department of Administration is preparing a whole new law on preventing conflicts of interest. In fact, at the 4th month, a working group was formed that works precisely on this law, and nextly, the task force is building in fact the first draft that has not yet been completed. So I don't see how the Department of Administration could comment on that first draft, and we haven't actually finished it yet. You have correctly quoted that this draft should be completed or the law in the fourth quarter, but I think that we will have to finish it much earlier and will already be sent to the government of the Republic of Croatia in August with all those opinions as provided for in the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82820	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. The first one will be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82821	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, the former president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has recently stated that all that was happening around the Agrokor affair is one of the most obvious conflicts of interest and that this is something where everyone involved in the process and who knew, so Mr. Plenkovic must go. What do you think of this as a senior HDZ official at the Ministry of Administration who is responsible for monitoring the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82822	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Robert Podlonjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82823	Thank you. Very short. I allow that the journalist did not talk to you about the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, but since she speaks in detail about everything the ministry would like to propose for a change and, among other things, a special emphasis on the inclusion of an extraordinary commissioner in system companies as an official, I can assume that she has discussed this with the minister himself. In any case, I don't believe the journalist concluded this by not talking to anyone responsible at the ministry. The article is on the entire page of the Evening List, and I'll show it to you, and I believe this debate will help make sure that the journalist who wrote this clearly shows who she was talking to, whether it's in preparation. And we'd like you to have it in the bill you're going to propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82824	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82825	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Neknic. So I've heard a lot of times as an argument from the government to refuse a single legal proposal. We're writing a new bill, none of those that I mentioned on the benches of the Assembly I haven't seen since the Hunting Law and beyond. So when you tell me that it's a completely missed argument, because I don't trust the government anymore. On the other hand, I am not a lawyer, you have raised a legal opinion, but in my view the point of this debate is just whether a man who manages companies of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, therefore who manages a company with more than 5,000 employees and 7.5 billion kuna, for which there is more than a reasonable conflict of interest, abuse of information privileged etc., etc. whether we want to include it in the category where the Law on conflict of interest can be applied. That's the only point of this whole debate, and that's not what the government wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82826	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad we had the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I'm glad for several reasons because I'm uncomfortable watching the Secretary of State keep quiet here while talking about an important topic, and I am given the opportunity to answer specific remarks. Yes, the bill provides for its retroactive action, yes. So did we keep it a secret? No, I don't. He writes explicitly in the explanation of certain provisions. And why is that suggested? Because the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia makes it clear that certain provisions of the law, if laid down by law, may have a feedback effect. When? When there are particular reasons to do so. Well, we at the SDP Representatives' Club felt that in the case of Mr. Ramljak, there were particularly valid reasons to entertain the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest, we did, and now I have to say why. Because he was involved in the correspondence as we now know with the vice-president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in which he agreed that he would look like the Extraordinary Management Act in trading societies of systemic significance for the Republic of Croatia with people who would directly, either through a third party afterwards, engage in the extraordinary administration procedure and allow some of them to make their income from 750,000 kuna in 2016 jump to 9 or 10 million kuna. These are persons who participated in the transcript. I will read to you one of these e-mails, which was sent by the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, fortunately not by the current Mrs. Dalic to Mr. Ramljak, Mr. Matic, Mr. Šavoric, Mr. Korunić, but Mr. Zdravko Maric. Maybe that's a familiar name, I believe. And the email reads: “The Prime Minister asks that you come to the government tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. on the subject we are working on. ” The Prime Minister is asking you to come to the government tomorrow on the subject we're working on. Whether it's a conflict of interest or something more about it will decide the commission as far as I know it on Friday and the DORH in the coming days. But it is a fact and I will repeat once again, Mrs Dalic, in the process of drafting the law, hired persons to advise her on how this law would look who later became an extraordinary commissioner, who was then elected by the restructuring adviser, and who were hired through it and who became special legal advisers of the extraordinary administration. Everyone's earned it. It's at least a conflict of interest, and in my humble legal knowledge and something more than that. And if you're asking me if I consider that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to suggest that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, there is a feedback in a way to apply it to the process that is under way, my answer to you is yes, there is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82828	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82829	It is important that colleagues of the coat of arms point out that we agree on the constitutional aspect of the retroactivity of certain provisions another significant circumstance. Namely, you proposed the law on February 7th of this year, Mr Ramljak resigned on February 21st and seven days later a new commissioner was appointed. So it was absolutely possible for the law to be voted by an emergency procedure in this Croatian Parliament and for the new Commissioner to be subject to the provisions of the amended law. in that case, there was not even any retroactivity in Mr. Peru. So that the government gave its opinion positively, it could actually have been carried out without even the retroactiveness of the new commissioner because everything was happening in February, could have been applied to it without the retroactiveness of the provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82830	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82831	Dear colleague, I honestly believe that there would be no retroactiveity here at all if we had passed this law. I am firmly convinced that the Committee for Conflict of Interest is unnecessaryly narrow so that I do not say grammatically, interpreted the law when it did not enter into the measure of things and, despite my reasoned proposal, found that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest was applied because of everything I had talked about earlier and to an extraordinary Commissioner. But yes, you're right. When we proposed this law, Ramljak was an extraordinary commissioner at the time not to tell the commissioner. However, there was more than enough time, especially at the moment when it became evident that the concerned, because of its conflict of interest, would have to leave Agrokor to adopt this law and that the new Commissioner who was coming, Mr Perusko, in a specific case when we mention names, would come to the post knowing that he had to give a report on the property and everything else that followed him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82832	Thank you. Dear Representative Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82833	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, we have also commented on this law and on committees and I have even been restrained because in principle we also recognize the lack of transparency that has been and there should always be sought as transparent a way of doing business and both extraordinary administrations and everything. What I would ask you by this law, which is imposed on me as one big problem and I trust the citizens, is that feedback and general action also has in paying the officials' fees during the time that it ceases to perform that 6+6 duty because in this case it is almost 4 million kuna, if you take all 3 Commissioners and per me, who should pay it? According to this private company, it obviously wouldn't have gone through in the Constitution, so the state, and then I have a problem with someone still getting paid that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82834	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82835	Your Honor, Mr. Curray, unfortunately you're mixing several laws. This is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The law defines officials only in terms and for the purposes of this law. For example, you have a Law on State officials that then regulates the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State officials that regulates their rights but does not apply, for example, to parliamentary legislators who have their own law, who again do not apply to officials in local self-government who have their own law and that law does not apply, for example, to a company that I previously spoke of, HEP, which is financed from pockets of Croatian citizens who pay electricity to the directors that companies apply the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. So this law gives us obligations and no one acquires any rights other than the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are hereby entitled to know who manages the biggest trade concert in this country on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82836	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS, the time will be shared by the respected representative Batinić and the respected representative Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state. Well, in my debate, together with who's lying to Curaj, I'm going to have to mention a few other laws that are inevitably tied up so that we can understand the intensity of the SDP club that is proposing this law. In fact, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is more or less here we all agree that it is extremely important, that it is also necessary as an official and I can say thank you to whoever first launched this initiative to even begin to pass such a law. But here we have a few doubts, a few dilemmas, a more formal nature, otherwise we generally support thinking and the idea to see how in what way in the future I think and wish it was, that we no longer have to apply this law anywhere in any commercial society, but just in case these dilemmas and doubts that have proved to be kind of prevented. So in particular, we have the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the aim is to make an extraordinary commissioner or proposal to be classified as an official. Now, if we are reading the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, there is no such thing as a reference, should we primarily intervene in this law to introduce an extraordinary Commissioner by definition? We don't even have it in the Law on Local Self-Government, meaning where local self-government leaders are, the mayors are also under the auspices of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and we don't have the same in the Law on the procedure of extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance. So we should have legally intervened probably in the Law on civil servants, on the rights and obligations of civil servants. I will only point out some of the articles that define it, when it says Article 13b, which speaks to salaries or fees of members of the management of companies, directors, etc., meaning under which category they might be aware of it, will be determined according to the provisions of the article of the law and cannot be higher than the established salaries of ministers. Very acceptable more than correct. Will we be able to function in this way in the future? Furthermore, not to mention all the obligations provided by law with more or less of all articles that regulate this topic. But I also have to go back to the extraordinary government law itself, which means who chooses, whom he appoints, is appointed by the court. It's a fact and it is on the government's proposal. But it's called a court, not a government. Then not to quote permanent articles, it is applied in a section that is not sufficiently defined, assuming, that it was the legislator's intensities, that certain articles of the bankruptcy law apply, according to the model of the acquired law. Next, to whom does the extraordinary commissioner answer? Except for the court. Except for the court. Of course, the Committee of Believers, depending on what is being decided. Art. 14. The Law on extraordinary, systemically important societies, is the court's sole jurisdiction, to monitor the work of an extraordinary commissioner. Still, the court, may recall an extraordinary... to name a new one at any time on a government proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We at the HNS Club, of course, support the principle law on preventing conflicts of interest, which is in force, but also, with the desire for the government to move to change and supplement as soon as possible, because there is a series of illogicalities. I'm going to say just one and hypothetically that the state official's extraordinary commissioner, which given the importance and size of the job, would answer, if he tries to put him in that category, I'm saying hypothetically, 6 plus 6. The SDP Club's draft law states that there will be no consequences under the budget. Can we and who can grant an extraordinary commissioner a salary payment of 6 plus 6, because he's practically 12 months old, he can't get a job anywhere. Why do I say it anywhere? So let's just try to look at the width, the complexity, the number of companies that are in one way or another connected to Agrokora. I know a few, I know a few shipping companies, which aren't from my neighborhood, that didn't work for Agrokor, but only a few. I know a few O.P.G.s that aren't. Guys, that's certainly a subject and I said it on the board, a good idea. A good idea, a good proposal to the promoter, the Government, to consider seeing this possibility, however, would like to hear from the proposing himself, this SDP Club proposal, as he imagined, in which category, how to define his salary and a few more interventions would be needed in the Law on the Rights of State Officials and in the Law itself, which regulated the extraordinary Commissioner to intervene. Because here it is mentioned that an extraordinary commissioner, that he has a fee or a reward, how to valorize it in terms of conflict of interest. Who does he approve of, who he confirms to, where is the government? There's no government here. There's no public money. Zero Kuna, and if this law is passed, it is very likely that taking the responsibility of Parliament's own legislator can happen, that those, after the end, are a well-remarked commissioner because, if we read the existing law, which I am simply not sure, that we can fully implement it, 3 months. He'll be getting paid, and for 12 months, he won't be able to get a job anywhere, absolutely nowhere. I support thinking as an idea, as an idea, but I also suggest to my colleagues from the SDP, that they try to find a complete solution and offer a package of amendments to the law, that we can get one more quality, one broader picture of it all together. There's something else I'd like to mention when the topic of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I'm going to use the presence of the Secretary of State, we've had amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, and I also believe it's the same thing as one of the goals to be made, to simply try, the 12 months. amortise or make a fee, which is reduced to 6 months. or somewhere on the 3 to be proportional to that, the decrease and duration, of that one vacuum space of 12 months. whether to 6, whether to 3, whether to receive a fee or to similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82838	Thank you very much. Before he says anything to his colleague Curaj, let's welcome, at the gallery, the students of the Catholic University of Zagreb, who came to welcome us... Here you go, colleague Curai. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82839	I would like to thank the Vice-President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I think counterpart Batinić has very well detected all the potential problems by changing this one, i.e. two articles. So, absolutely, and I'm going to do it again from his exposure, we don't mind, and the more transparency we do, the better, but here we open ourselves up needlessly hips and I think that this problem and potential future one can be solved by a lexic specialist, so, individually, if we look at maybe so on. By law on extraordinary administrations, i.e. companies of systemic importance. Because here it is very well stated what it all means, to someone, to give him all the obligations, and to take away all his rights. The constitutionality of it, then is questioned, the functioning, is questionable, and the law that we are talking about today, the prevention of a conflict of interest, is talking about a conflict of interest, which one? Private and public. So, translated, does anyone do public duty not suit private persons, whether to themselves or to close to themselves or to another private. As it is a private company, there is no public money, it is I think that it is clear to everyone now and that is what we have been saying all along that this crisis is not allowed neither this law nor anything else, nor June to cost our citizens, and it is absolutely now clear to everyone and it is no longer said by those who have threatened to pay or do not know what, it has become me thinking clearly and unequivocally to everyone. And the whole system that's already at the end of now I mean the conflict of interest that was and the transparency that we pointed to and said that, paid by the former commissioner, he left without the Prevention Act. But it does not say that something should not be and that such a situation should be anticipated. However, you have a situation in that private company where you answer to the believers who say we want that, too. And he needs to come and say, if I can't, you know, I might be in a conflict of interest if I do. And we will limit private interest, private money and freedom in the finality of the capital market. That's where we have to be careful, and that's very important. What's there is a whole cause of what this person is proposing is not a government, not a name, but a proposal, and it's a basis for determining these changes and additions. Yes, the government can propose five people, the court can choose anyone or say no, it can't refuse to appoint. The court may and the court may already assume its responsibility. Of course we do, and we don't have to say that it's not like other bankruptcy managers, it's absolutely clear. That's why the law was, and that's why the government is just proposing because such deals cannot be left to the mere case according to the description of some bankruptcy managers. However, when we look at the wider picture, it is now clear to all that something had to be done to those who were against us at that time in opposition when we did not participate or suggest those advisers who did or received emails from our ministry officials, or had ministers who conducted it in government or voted. In the end, if our amendments had been accepted, we would have voted, yes, we would have maintained that law because we were aware that something had to be done, we were constructive. Some of them knew that Mr. Ramljak was involved in consulting the law and they had no problem supporting him in the government, and now they're saying something else. We weren't then, we were for the ultimate goal, to save every job that was possible to save, to maintain production, to prevent the unimaginable. What's this all about? I can then understand the public interest in the commission next item of the agenda because it is not a small thing, but nothing should remove us from that ultimate goal, reaching a settlement, maintaining production, maintenance and our suppliers in the end line. These shelves are still filling and need to be filled, as many Croatian products as possible and saving each individual job, tens and tens of thousands of jobs. That's what the target is. What someone said, is it opportunistic and when and at what cost to kill a cow for two steaks, my people sometimes do, if otherwise can't. But now you can and must otherwise, if you can't happen to any of our irresponsible actions in the past and now you question any job, let alone 50,000 or how many jobs and the fate of the entire economy, that's what's at stake. If there were things that weren't good, it's clear to everyone. It's about everyone's responsibilities, we'll have this later on and in the next presentation to explain it, but I think that ultimately the very intensity of this proposal is always to welcome, but the realization is almost impossible, questionable and opens up too many hips and will not give us the solution that we want. And that's why we need to look at this issue from lex specialis and certain laws that regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82840	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the word to be taken by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82841	Little Ramljak, little Shavoric, little Pedja, little me who goes. So in this formal section of the Special Commissioner, it would be worth the same thing to the directors of public enterprises, so neither are they government officials nor have any protection mechanism, but would be in the same case as the directors of public companies. As far as local self-government is concerned, she doesn't have six plus six, but these other six aren't, but they're still worth everything. And it's not entirely true that he couldn't get a job anywhere, he couldn't be a director, but with the permission of the Committee of Conflict of Interest he could get a job in a company with permission. Now, let me worry about someone whose company got 12 million kuna from counseling services what they're gonna do next year, I don't know, so 12 million kunas if they were to calculate the salaries of all Parliamentarians I think that would go on for a few years. However, something else is also important to highlight here, which is that it would apply to an extraordinary commissioner the principles of action that apply to politicians as well. When he learned the case with Texo Management the Prime Minister received a report and then said one statement, I will try to quote a colleague to BACIC, so perhaps, that "the rent is morally questionable" which Mr Ramljak received, I think I guess I hit the point correctly. So it wasn't an act I asked, it was just an amount for the Texo Management. So 12 million kunas are immoral and 4 million kunas would probably be moral or be moral 2 million kunas or 500 000, where that limit of morality and ethics is, etc.? The Commission of Conflict of Interest is empowered to say whether someone acted by the principles of action or not because this is how it turns out that Ramljak left without breaking the Law of Conflict of Interest or any principle of action because no principles of action were attributed to him, so he was actually a victim if this argument turned out to be what kind of complications were possible if they were not subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Therefore, our message here must be clear. And that is to say to the people that the Government, you will say propose a court and we will be a little bit more direct and say if the Government sets it up and the court confirms, that the same rules and principles of action are laid down for those appointed by the Government in state companies and that they are obliged to do so because that is not the case, then there would be no political responsibility either for Mr Ramljak or Mrs Dalic. They came to the Committee on Economy a few weeks ago, answering questions, and the general impression was that they broke the entire opposition and half the ruling majority. Two months after that, they both fell. So, the impression sometimes cheats and the Prime Minister is very, very mild, though, he always does so apaurically, commented on their actions, defended until the last and then eventually they both resigned, probably not because of what they did well. We believe that we should also bear criminal sanctions for violating the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and now I do not have enough legal knowledge for this speaker to assess whether there are elements of some other responsibility. Therefore, we cannot accept these formal reasons as arguments why this law should be rejected because an extraordinary commissioner in systemicly important companies would not be in any worse situation than the leaders of local self-governments that do not have 6+6, but such as the directors of public companies who can also not be employed after this 6 months, or a year, but with the permission of the Committee for Conflict of Interest and we believe that an extraordinary commissioner in system companies falls within the circle of those who should be in charge of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82842	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused a lot of replicas. The first is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82843	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, I see you've been listening very carefully to the debate and you've answered some of my questions, means the official, yes, but you haven't figured out which one, you've compared it to the public company, so to speak. But when I spoke, what was the intensity of my debate? Preventing conflicts of interest is a priority, transparency never enough, but my suggestion towards you has been to come with a complete proposal for a set of amendments to the law because it creates doubt, one legal uncertainty if we just go through this law. Well, here's just one case, so Article 20. The law of the extraordinary commissioner, the prize, means it must not be greater than the average monthly fee that the members of the management of the debtor before... It's more than an extraordinary commissioner has come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course those numbers are astronomical to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82844	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82845	So I'm going to quote Article 1 or 2. The law on preventing conflicts of interest or already some, therefore, would be an official within the meaning of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. So that would be the definition. He wouldn't be a state official, he wouldn't be a local self-government official like the directors of public companies. It would also be subject to any rules relating to the official in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. That's the answer to the question. As far as whole solutions are concerned, this is a complete solution. And that's that an extraordinary commissioner who's in a concert of two actually, has once been applied and would have changed one article of the law and given him some obligations that he has to stick to anyway because if he hadn't had to stick to, he wouldn't have been an ex today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82846	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82847	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, you spoke of the heights of some consulting services, etc., you were a minister in the government who wanted to privatise the HPB and monetize highways. That monetization and that privatisation required consultants. You've opened a privatisation tender for the HPB that never happened. The amount of $11 million, do you know who answered that contest and who got it? This society we talk about all the time. Why does it bother you now when we're talking about private money and here you've paid off from the budget and nothing's happened, and the monetization that we're not talking about? Three years talking, giving up government in 30 seconds, paying off money for what? And who? It means nothing. It's your pattern of conduct and responsibility for taxpayers' resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82848	The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82849	As far as monetization is concerned, we've copied it from the government where you were the secretary of state, so that's not an argument to you. As far as HPB is concerned, it was about recapitalisation as far as I'm concerned, and Mr. Greek told me so, so I didn't do HPB, as you know, I think. ... And because he can't answer your line, I can, so I'm helping, I mean, it's okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And I think that's where the competition was held, right? And that contest didn't seem to be written to me by those who won, did it, fellow Greek? So, that's as much as I could answer Mr. Greek's assistance, so much as I answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82850	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82851	Dear colleague Bauk, back to me on the subject, and the topic is conflict of interest. ... We have a situation here where we are discussing the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and the spread of its application to an extraordinary commissioner. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Why? Because of the shops that happened. The following persons participated in these activities, undoubtedly, Mr. Ramljak – he flew away, Mrs. Dalic – flew away. Why? Because they were doing something that was illegal. And who knew all this time? Who? Prime Minister. We'll do it again. The Prime Minister is asking you to come to the government tomorrow on the subject we're working on. Don't forget, he's begging to come to the government at 3:30. Dear colleague Bauk, do you think all this talk we talked about today should continue in the process of water expansion? So since we can't apply the Law to Ramljak, do we apply it to someone else?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82852	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82853	Well, I think that apart from Mrs. Dalic at the Committee of Conflict of Interest, we should certainly see if the prime minister has adhered to the principles of public duty. That would be another interesting assessment of the Commission's conflict of interest. And as for your question as mentioned, the answer should be, of course. And I don't think, politically speaking, even the Prime Minister can get away with political responsibility in this case. Now it's a question of what level this political responsibility should go to and we'll see how far he can get out of all of this like the PR's get away with just as he knows it. Dedramatic, relaxation, what else? Yes, the trip to Sofia and Romania to Transylvania and where other countries are already going and then said the weekend was coming. And by Monday, I guess we'll forget. And we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82854	Thank you very much. Don't keep whispering to your colleagues, Bauku, from all sides. The next replica is the respected representative Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82855	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bauk, looking at the proposal you made as a representative club, is an irresistible reminder, in fact, of the corporate governance code of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which also implies that the restriction should be, in particular, related to the conflict of interest, clearly indicated. Therefore, the question arises, in essence, why this code did not apply and now that we had this situation because, in its opinion, there was indeed a threat to the stock market itself and the stockholders' trust. Those who are currently still the owners of the Agrokor company. This is what I think is a good upgrade that complements the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the Code itself, and I think it makes one significant stability of the political impact on decision-making in Agrokor itself and reduces actually possible damage that would be done by implementing such a way as has now been done for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82856	Answer. There's no answer, okay. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82857	Dear colleague Bauk, in several of your discussions today you mentioned your prophetic abilities when you said you requested a vote of no confidence, so after a while these same ministers were replaced. I remind you that you asked for a vote of no confidence in the government, so the government is still there, Minister Maric, so the minister remains a minister. Mrs. Nadi Murganic, so she is still a minister, I can also remind you at a time when you were the minister how many ministers were replaced during the Milanic government by Linic, Jovanovic, etc. and no vote of no confidence. But the key to this story is to point out who and whose funds have been charged for by those we've been talking about all along. So, not a single lip from the Republic of Croatia's budget. The funds that will be paid exclusively are the assets of Agrokor and the believers, and they are very much involved in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82858	The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82859	As for Mrs. Murganic, this is where we joined our colleagues from GLAS. Statistically speaking, we're not bad at this number. So, as for this last thing you said, I understand that this is one defense attempt, a legitimate attempt to defend the indemnity, and I don't blame you for anything, but I am sure that activists and HDZ members when they went to tell the citizens that in the 2016 elections they voted for HDZ, that they were not doing it so that a group of people who had nothing to do with HDZ had nothing to do with it, but were friends of the vice president who had come out of HDZ, and donated smartly rich, or in order for me to say it better now, "concerned". So in that sense, I believe neither HDZ members nor activists will give you the story exactly for the right, but you defend yourself properly. It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82860	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82861	Thank you. Well, a few of the things I pointed out in the presentation, you didn't make a reference. First of all, it's about just addressing this problem that I agree with, that's what I said. But I don't think this law is an object that needs to be solved. It's a lex specialis from more than one thing. First of all, this Law is about a conflict of private and public, when someone puts their private interest ahead of the public. In the sense of this Act, this person would then be treated as a public official at the head of a private company. So, because all the time it's been said in the Law of Public responsibilities, the public duties of what I also pointed out, what if someone from the Committee of the Prophets said that we want that company where you used to work? I want her. I want you to do what I tell you. My money, my decision. He says I can't, I'm in conflict of interest. So that's the point. Private and public. That's why we have to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82862	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82863	So the basic question is, would all of this be possible without State interference? The answer is no. And that's where the story starts and ends. Everything else in the content sense is very clear. So first one group did the Law, and then it became something in that Law that allowed itself to earn some money. They proposed an external consultant who then proposed them to subcontractors, etc., etc. And in the end, they had to leave the chief culprits of that story. So in a political sense, it's relatively more or less clear, if I haven't been able to refer to everything you've said, it's for two reasons. Either I didn't have enough time or I didn't have enough knowledge to answer everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82864	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDSS on behalf of which the respected Pupovac representative will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82865	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I signed up for this debate out of respect for our colleague, Pedji Grbino, and his good intentions. But I'm not sure that with this bill, it goes thoroughly enough, it goes wide enough, and I'm not quite sure that we would also decide to adopt a bill like this so that it could not be disputed or the amendment or addition of the law that it could not be challenged. Why do I think he might be challenged? One of the arguments has just been made by a colleague named Churay. So it's in the front row of a private company, private money, private suppliers, except the city of Zagreb. And the deeper involvement of the state in the whole process would, in our opinion, be additionally risky for the Republic of Croatia, and the Law itself already poses certain risks. Second, no matter how important it was in public perception, and objectively it was the role of the former governor, but it was decided by the Law by the believers. They could decide whether he would be accepted, whether to accept his resignation, would not accept his resignation, whatever they were saying here. And thirdly, he also has final confirmation of the court. This does not give for any official or any official in the situation in which this person is located, in this role. And that makes it specific. And that's why we as the SDSS Club are reserved according to this initiative whose intention we recognize as good. Try to reduce the dangers that exist objectively, but we think it takes to create something else and something wider and something more. I made a point in this regard this morning in my discussion of those five minutes of free debate. I think we need a set of system laws that will make a transparent relationship between the state and non-state actors. Whether it's about companies, whether it's about professors, whether it's about consultants and their companies. We don't have a law on terms and assumptions for lobbying. We don't have a real owner's register. We don't have a real owner's register. We have no law to prevent money laundering in the full and true sense of that word. [[Let's not throw it out of the bench, let's let a colleague of the Pupovec expose his.]] These three system laws, these three system solutions should ensure what was missing in this case and what was missing in a number of cases. And important for our job as Parliamentarians for whom a good part of us has long known nothing about it sitting here in the Parliament, only with years does he realize what he's dealing with. Well, I'll say something about it. So, we have no doubt, we need to do everything possible to comply as an EU member with the obligations we have taken and with the interest of strengthening our own state institutions, protecting public interest, public money and the way public decisions are made, including regulations and laws. We don't know that this assumption of serious control of this colleague, the coat of arms, we're weak from a series of players in play. This morning I mentioned the adoption of the General Tax Code, are there any leads on who was consulted in the course of the consultations, are there any records? They don't exist, they're not available to us, we don't have the obligation to do that. Was there also a defined obligation to do in our case the same thing that was done in the event of the Italian Parmalate crisis, when it was known exactly where and when which meeting was held, who took part in it, who said what, who advocated what. No, we don't have that. We didn't have it in the case of the realisation of this law, but we don't have it either in the case of preparation or any other law, and that's our big problem. It is a big problem for us MPs because we are always one step or two behind those who participate in the creation of laws because they are easier to reach representatives of the government of the state, ministries, agencies and anyone else than we are. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS calls for us to address this and to make all those circumstances concerning information relating to the system in the management of conflict of interest transparent, to make it transparent all cases involving experts employed in private companies, particularly consultants, who participate in different working groups for the making of laws, rules, programmes or anything else. So what we feel is that transparency is strengthened through such legislative mechanisms, and that can be done if we have a register of individuals dealing with lobbying, if we have a register of meetings of officials, if we have a legal obligation to create a record on any kind of consultation or informal conversation that government officials conduct with individual consultants, whether at universities, whether outside of it, the obligation to create and write a trace of all forms of impact on the content of decisions and a specific ban on previous or subsequent employment or obtaining a position. It should be systemically and legally resolved. And if we do this systemically and legally, then we have a completely real framework within which cases like this have appeared with published emails can be properly sanctioned, not only as a question of conflict of interest and comprehensively. For this reason, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will join the effort to implement the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest as soon as possible, to provide us with a complete register and a real register of real owners and also the Law on Money Laundering as soon as possible. When we get that, then we will have an institutional framework that will allow us as agents to act stronger and stronger than we do, and the state will strengthen and make it more competitive and its experts than it is right now. And now, finally, let's say something. The circumvention of the state in the things in which the state takes over part of the obligation is something that must not happen and therefore political responsibility has been shouldered and, among other things, the vice president had to leave. Not that there are really no experts in the state who are able to do this when we know that without those in this country doing their job with honor, this raw material that is written here could never have come to this House if it hadn't been for people who know how to do their job. Let's help these people be stronger, let's make the state stronger. I'm not here to prevent a debate, I'm not here to prevent an initiative, I appreciate what my colleague Grbin started, but we're going to go at it wider and more systematically. And that's why we call you when we come out with the initiative of some of these laws in accordance with the strength of our club, probably with the Law of Lobby and what will soon come out of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, let's go ahead and we'll have a much stronger framework and a much better institutional form than we have right now. At this point, we have circumstances that are typical of classical liberal states where the state is weak and the groups that own money are stronger. In our circumstances, this is further linked to the group and what mutual interest of connectivity, and then we get the circumstances we have and we still have an additional situation that our policy has unfortunately been weakened over the past few years. I belong to a small stranger so I can say that because we're weak by default. But I'm saying it because of parties that are big. And for which I want them to remain large, but we will not remain as big as either the party or this Parliament if we do not commit ourselves to what is our business, which is the adoption of thoughtful, not only ad hoc system solutions that will strengthen the state and which will strengthen the state institutions including the legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82866	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82867	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pupova, I'm going to start off with something I may not need to talk about from the pay phone because it's about my personal and attitude and my relationship with you because I really deeply appreciate you both as a man and as a politician. Some of the things you've done I greatly appreciate, of course, my God, some and much less. But I have to say, this time you've let me down a little bit, and I'm gonna start with what you said and what kind of surprised me, and I didn't expect you to. It may not be the subject of this law, but it is directly connected to it. To start lobbying, suggest, I'm convinced that on this side of the assembly you'll get me left-hand support because we want to arrange lobbying and do it. But when you talk about real owners, in the last year, the Croatian Parliament has twice discussed the real owners of legal persons. Once the SDP submitted an amendment to make that register public, you did not support it. The second time our colleagues were our colleagues from the Most when the amendment had not passed, they gave such a bill. You know when we voted on him? May 10th. Six days ago. And do you know how you personally voted on that bill then? You voted against the adoption of the law that the Register of Real Owners of Legal Persons should have made public. And I have to admit that I'm deeply surprised that today six days after you were against the Register of Real Owners becoming public, that's what you're saying with the pay phone, but let's let it go and get back to conflicting interest. You were talking about removing the state from corporate governance especially those that are privately owned, especially in those that are under extraordinary management. But a respected colleague, Pupovac, was held on 9 April 2018 a meeting in the Banski dvors, I don't know if you were present at it but I know that such well-known Croatian policies as Radimir Cacic or Mr Vrdoljak, the president of the HNS, were present and regardless of the state officials, were to them as members of the coalition, I don't know if you were, but I think you were, represented a settlement by an extraordinary member of the coalition, not some state body. And you're telling me here today that the state has no influence on the proceedings in Agror? Are you telling me the Prime Minister has nothing to do with what happened? And the prime minister organises a meeting on April 9th, 37 days ago for his coalition partners, of which the good part is not state officials and some are not officials at all. And they're represented by a settlement. They present themselves with the text of the settlement and they comment afterwards on this great, this is like, this is like, the parliamentary representatives not, members of the ruling coalition that, and we here today from the constituencies are talking about that politics has no impact on the processes in Agrokor? Politics has affected since day one. I read it to you, I'll read it again, and I'll do it a few more times during the day. The Prime Minister is asking you to come to the government tomorrow on the subject we're working on. The Prime Minister begs. A prime minister who knew every step of the way at all times and who was doing it. He knew about Šavoric, he knew about Ramljak, he knew about Altera, too. He knew. But he didn't do anything. When you were on the weekend of a conflict of interest we're talking about here in public, you said things that you and I deeply agree on. You said someone did things they shouldn't have done. And you were absolutely right. You said there was absolutely no doubt about what happened, and you were right. But you stood one step to the end. And you know where you left off? You stopped at the moment when you decided to accept the thesis that it was only the one who worked, not the one who worked, and the one who knew everything and the one who approved everything because if it was the vice president of the government, it was the prime minister. And he can't be fenced from that responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82868	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82869	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow coat of arms, I couldn't agree more with what you said. We often like to speak here in debates how this or that should be, but when certain legislative initiatives, certain amendments come to the vote, it is true that you have made amendments to the law then, but we have, too, been refused amendments and precisely because we have been refused amendments, we have sent these amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Combating Terrorism where we have asked that the Register of Real Owners of Companies be made public and we have asked here colleagues, including a colleague of Pupovac and others to support that law, we have warned colleagues from the HDZ that the EU has already set out in that direction to amend the directive and that we will definitely have to adopt it or change it, and here, it was not for that hearing. I hope that because of these words of my fellow buds, the government will now go in that direction, and I expect that, and I am glad that he supports it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82870	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoya, this is about one continuity. About one continuity where this government wants absolutely nothing to do with transparency. The register of real owners is just one example. It wouldn't cost anybody. We've set examples of other countries, it seems to me the Great Britain, etc., that have arranged it. So we didn't discover hot water. We asked that only what is in other countries be normal for Croatia as well. Nothing more but nothing less. Well, the same thing is here. We are looking here not to judge anyone in advance but to ensure transparency in order to extend the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. However, if the state does not, fortunately in Croatia there is still as many free media and they will do some things for us, instead of the state, instead of the institution and then we will find out what the Deputy Prime Minister was doing and what the Prime Minister was hiding. If we don't, fortunately, there's someone who will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82872	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82873	Dear counterpart Grbin, you did not go to dispute the arguments that I stated that your bill should not have been passed, which I should not have, which is why I have the reserve, but that you went to point out the side arguments about how someone acted under the given circumstances, that is, of course, allowed in politics. But in the discussion of the very thing as you know, both in court and in politics, it doesn't necessarily have to bring results. Therefore, whether I supported it or not to support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Register of Real Owners, I will not only go into controversy, I did not support it, but from the present experience it is clear to me that it must be done and that it must be changed. I learned. And as for the meetings regarding the situation in Agrokor...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82874	Thanks, we're running out of time. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82875	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, it's just gotten interesting. We were just about to find out something about the Agrokor meetings, but, well, you stopped it. Dear colleague Pupovac, I have said more than once, I will repeat, I have an extremely good opinion about you and this will not change him, but let me say that when I disagree with you, I have the right to state it. And that's what I'm gonna do. And as for the arguments, so I'm giving them away this morning, I gave them last week, I'm going to repeat them now. If, in a commercial company, a state introduces an extraordinary administration, a state, not a believer, not a court, the state introduces an extraordinary administration, then that person who will implement this extraordinary administration must be without any stain and the data on that person must be publicly available in exactly the same way as you say they are real owners. And I believe you'll agree with that logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82876	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82877	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, it is also important that we return all the time to the Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, it is about Commissioners in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and when the prime minister represented the law without wanting it to be exclusively related to Agrokor, then he mentioned, among other things, Zagreb Holding, that one of such companies and Zagreb Holding. And do we all think together if it happened in Zagreb Holding, and believe me, it's not a scenario that isn't looking, would we argue like this? Would you feel the same way? Because we think Agrokor and Agrokor equally of private interest all the time. What about the commissioner who would lead the whole process of Zagreb Holding, would you argue like this? Would you then think that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should deal with it? Therefore, no amendments to the law are adopted in one case. It's brought in for a lot more cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82878	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82879	Dear colleagues, thank you for noticing this, and I will add it is not just the Zagreb Holding that this could apply to. Tomorrow it could be INA, so I wonder who would be here to advocate that an extraordinary commissioner, for example, who would come to INA tomorrow, should not inform the public about his property situation before he entered and how the property was when he came out of that company. We have a situation here that a whole series of people participated in shops that are extremely dubious. If we wanted to stop at the beginning, we could, but we didn't. And finally we have Ramljak who advised, who wrote, Daliæ who supported it all, who pushed it all, who pushed it into the law and we have Plenkovic, Plenkovic, who remained the only one of the three, who knew everything and kept everything hidden. This is imperative, we must make the procedure transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82880	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82881	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow coat of arms, I would like to ask you a comment on the presentation of some MPs who said that the creditors supported the Lex Agrokor. I am now interested in it, clearly that the believers supported it because they were, take it or leave it, they were not able to choose much or take what was offered to them or perhaps run out of everything. But in any case, is it your opinion that this is the abolizing of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy and all those who wrote Lex Agrokor to do exactly what they were doing? That they had arranged consulting services of several hundred million kunas. Is that what you believers justify? So we're talking about it, here, and some of the MPs here and there mentioned that it's all under cover and with the approval of the credentials. Do you think really the believers would justify that the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister is now no longer, excuse me, and that would be with their consent?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82882	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82883	Dear colleague Prelec. There's an old saying that says the devil's in the details. You have now mentioned the believers. Believers are represented in the religious council in the extraordinary administration procedure. But look at that devil that's in the details. We are neither today nor after the period of one year to complete the extraordinary administration procedure, so in the extended period of time, we in the extensions still do not have a permanent religious council, but we have a temporary religious council. And do you know how a temporary religious council is formed? He's called an extraordinary commissioner. So the extraordinary commissioner appointed by the government, because without the government, he's gone, the role of the court is minor, he named the names of those who defend him today. And so, to give your colleague Shuker, yes, read the Law on Extraordinary Administration, read the Law on Extraordinary Administration and see who defines the criteria and you will see why we have litigation and you will see why the High Court of Commerce abolishes the classes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82884	Thank you. Please, come on, let's not get off the bench. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82885	A fellow coat of arms, if someone else said that the state was introducing an extraordinary administration, and not you, would not be replicating it. You know very well, and don't, I won't diminish the word, don't tell the truth. The extraordinary administration activates only the debtor and that is also done in this case. If it hadn't been for the former administration to activate the Emergency Administration Act, this would never have happened. So you know that, you just don't want to say it. And as for that other piece of work that I also replicated to you, and you know that, in accordance with Article 12 of this same law, an extraordinary administration is in charge of business, of preparing a settlement, of all relevant to report to the economy, namely the Ministry of Economy, i.e. Government of the The fact that the Prime Minister, at a meeting when an extraordinary commissioner is submitted to him by the report, calls on and representatives of the ruling majority, it is absolutely not the opposite of the law. So it's his decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82886	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82887	Thank you. Dear colleague Bačić, Article 24. It's a law of extraordinary management. After the request to open an extraordinary co-government, the court will inform the government. The court will inform the government. Then comes the key assumption without which an extraordinary administration procedure is opened, which is that the government will decide who will be an extraordinary commissioner and send it to the court. Without the government, without the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, this would not be all. However, my colleague Bacic, I understand your concern. You as the ruling majority, and above all you as HDZ are not really guilty here, nor do you have any debt involved in an affair in which, by the action of your former member, Mrs. Dalic and your president, one click, one bolument, one group of Borg has come to an opportunity to grease your mustache as much as you are together in FIMI MEDIA. So we're having an affair that needs to be spoken of publicly and cleaned up. If this were at the beginning when the law was passed, the question would have come to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82888	Thank you. Now we're going to go to the next club, and that's that GLAS and HSU in the name of which they're going to speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82889	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. What's the topic? The subject is a proposal to supplement the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The SDP Club has proposed that an extraordinary commissioner... of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia shall be included in the category of officials in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How did they explain that? He says: although the commissioner formally appoints the court, he is working on a proposal from the government, which makes the appointment of the commissioners a political decision in the sole jurisdiction of the government, unlike the example of the bankruptcy manager. The Commissioner manages systems of over 5,000 people and more than seven and a half billion debts, and is not subject to the provisions of this law or to the control of the commission. On the other hand, for example. any member of the management of a company owned by the Republic of Croatia shall be subject to that supervision. The corruption risks are enormous and because of the size of the company and the situation itself, the Commission for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest has declared itself incompetent and these are the reasons why it should change this Law. What did the government of the Republic of Croatia say to me? As for any law that comes from the opposition, she recommended that the law not be passed. How did they explain that? They explained because they said, the commissioner appointed a court. He says, because private-owned debtors' bodies are not considered officials. They compared it to bankruptcy managers who are not also officials. They said, among other things, that the Constitutional Court said that the law and regulations could not, had no retrograde action and that certain provisions could possibly, for particularly justified reasons, and said what we heard each time, and that is, we will have a comprehensive law that the government, let the government one day solve this problem. What exactly are we talking about and what is it? What we need to know is that an extraordinary commissioner at an incomparably greater risk of corrupt pressure than a large majority of officials who otherwise oversees the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest both because of the size of the company and because of the situation in which it is located. Although, you know, sometimes when you find yourself in some doubt and you're not quite sure how to solve it, then you turn around and you see a little bit of how others handled it. We keep in mind all the time, we should keep in mind the neighbouring country of Italy, the Paramalate, as they did, what they solved, and in the end that law wasn't called lex-paramalate and they didn't call it that, they called it different. But after that, there's a certain satisfaction that they've done so. The objection is equally so that an extraordinary commissioner is appointed by the court, but how does the court appoint a Commissioner? On a proposal from the government. Is this about a political appointment? It is. Well, it is. The government suggests, the court confirms. And the role of the court is of a formal nature. And so, all that objection that it's not political is political. In contrast, if we are going to make a comparison, it does not appoint a political body, it does not appoint a government, and that is the difference we need to know and talk about. The objection is also that the Constitutional Court has said that the laws cannot have a reverse effect. It's not... As this amendment to the SDP proposal, the provisions concerning the inclusion of Commissioners in the list of officials could be re-applied, and that return to application of certain provisions also allows for that decision of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Generally, there is no law and there is no law that would come from the side of the opposition and that has nothing to do with the world-wide, even if it had nothing to do with Agrokor and has nothing to do with anything that the ruling would say, so look, let's accept it, it will improve us. Even if it improves and even speeds up certain processes, there's no way. None of us mind that one comprehensive law solves the problem. But we don't mind because it lasts, because we don't get on the tables, because it's just an alibi for something else. And this law went into procedure, and when he entered the procedure, and when the SDP colleagues suggested it, I'm not sure they were so psychic that they could predict that a week ago, so we're talking a week ago, and on Wednesday a week ago, they started talking to e-mails, so it was Wednesday when everyone said it didn't matter, so it was Thursday when everyone said it didn't matter, so it was Friday, so there was a scene that actually shows everything. There were weddings in the Altar homeland and the camera recorded the departure of officials from that laying of the wreaths and ladies, former Deputy Prime Minister Dalic was the same when she came down from Medvedgrad, she came down alone. There was no one near her. You don't have to deal with politics, you don't have to have a lot of knowledge, you don't have to listen to what's being said in the halls, that picture said more than 1,000 words. On Monday, we could only guess what time Mrs. Dalic will say, I resign. It was a picture on Saturday. All those who defended on Wednesday, all those who defended on Thursday, all those who defended on Friday, did not do so on Saturday, or maybe it was Sunday, but anyway. Mrs. Dalic was alone and I believe that thanks to her experience she knew what was going on and that she was actually counting her stay not in days, but in hours. Equally real life has shown the following, that from the moment this Parliament voted the Law most of the time, we call it lex-Agrocor, but what we need to know and keep in mind, that this Law applies to all those companies, i.e. system companies that have more than 5,000 employees and a problem more than 7.5 billion. So, something else can be found here, I purposely mentioned Zagreb Holding because when the prime minister was in law, he said it could be Zagreb's Holding. I asked him then, Mr. Plenkovic, maybe you know something we don't know? But I'm afraid it's something that's like a map tower, but it's going to be something else. So, from the moment that most of the votes in this House this Law was voted upon, Mr. Ramljak went into history, Mrs. Dalic was within a week of having started e-mails as much as already and downloaded as I can see, by the portals of her photograph, of course from those photos that make up the government and we have the situation of the next commissioner who when he became, Mr. Fabris Perusko said from now on everything will be open, public, transparent, all of which I will publish, we have had the opportunity to see the press to which he came out, said what he had to say and there was neither the possibility of any questions of journalists and so much about the public, openness and transparency. Let's imagine the scenario in which it is in that law that there are provisions, those two articles or three articles that exist in that law that speaks of a parmalate where, or imagine where certain obligations are said to exist, I'm sure they wouldn't be discussing this today. The same way we justify and talk about the need to in the state, to protect the state, to protect a certain way of security, to safeguard stability, the question is crucial after all the e-mails we have to see what we are saving. Likewise, neither the midwife of the doorman nor the cards should be opened, nor the peas should be thrown, so that we know how the vote will end on Friday and what will be green, and what will be red and how many hands will be somewhere. But come on, I often know to say when someone asks something, I say let's try to remove what's written somewhere, let's include common sense so let's see what this is based on common sense we should make and what kind of decision we should make and the question is what bothers who in the Law on the prevention of conflict of interest is listed and Commissioner in societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. What's wrong with who? What's the problem? How many other people would be there, one, two, three, so we have one for now and what's the problem? When we answer what the problem is, then I think we'll give ourselves an answer to some other questions. We from GLAS Club and HSU will support this SDP proposal, we will support it for whatever reason, put it on yourself, when you give an answer to what bothers you, why it is a problem, why it could not be in that law, why it could not be examined or answered, and what it makes sense when you are based on the Law on preventing conflicts of interest, you give your property card at the beginning of the term of office and you give your property card at the end of the term of office. And you're looking at the difference that it is. What's wrong with an extraordinary commissioner doing the same? What bothers us is that someone can say something against an extraordinary commissioner and will say something like this, so when someone gets that job, then they must be responsible for everything that they do in this business. We at the GLAS and HSU Club have no problem with the extraordinary commissioner being another person to whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, of course we will support this. And somehow try to reason with each other to answer the question, and what does it bother you to have an extraordinary commissioner be the person to whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests applies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82890	Thank you. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Marija Jelkovac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82891	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. By proposing a law supplementing the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Proposer, i.e. the Club of Representatives of the SDP, proposes that a new point 42 be added in Article 3(1) of the current law, which would prescribe that an extraordinary Commissioner in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia be added. By Article 2 of the proposed law, they propose that all proceedings initiated before the proposed law enters into force be completed in accordance with the provisions of that law, i.e. propose retroactive action of the law. In their argument, the parallel is withdrawn with members of the company management owned by the Republic of Croatia, who are officials under the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. The HDZ Club does not support such an explanation and a proposal, and now I will briefly recapitulate that view. First of all, I would like to stress that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 11. The Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, the Extraordinary Commissioner appoints a court, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it only proposes it. The government is not in charge of the restructuring process, and the bodies of the extraordinary administration are the court, the extraordinary commissioner, the advisory body, the religious council in accordance with Article 9 of the same law. In accordance with Article 14 of the Law, it is the court that is solely competent to oversee the work of an extraordinary commissioner. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The authorities of the debtors, administrations and administrations as bodies of a private-owned company shall not be regarded as officials. With regard to the responsibility of the Extraordinary Commissioner, as referred to in Article 11(2), The law on extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and as regards its rights and duties, as referred to in Article 12 of that Law, shall apply to the provisions of the bankruptcy law. So when we look at the function and content of a job performed by an extraordinary commissioner first we can pull a parallel with bankruptcy managers who are also not officials but professionals who are trying to make the most of what is possible in fallen companies. And in the case of an extraordinary commissioner, we can say that this goal is the same as restructuring the debtors so that they can survive economically. Therefore, we cannot pull a parallel with members of the company management in majority state-owned companies because they manage something that is public good and therefore needs to be protected while the extraordinary commissioner manages the process in a private-owned company and does not decide for himself. So, according to the law, most decisions are made by a religious council, and therefore, in this way, extraordinary commissioners are already limited in their rights and decision-making. We must also point out that the entire case is being conducted and supervised by the court. The role of the state in this whole story can be said to be next, it is the state that protects the entire economic system in its interest was to create a legal framework as a prerequisite for such situations that threaten the economic downturn in the country to create a framework that will stop it from happening overnight and to create a normative space in which the company will try to restructure, calm down the creditors and, in a certain way, allow such a company to continue to operate in a positive way. In this whole process, we can say that the interest of the state is that such a procedure succeeds, that through the extraordinary commissioner he proposed does not manage the process itself, she only gets reports on how this process is going, but all decisions that are important for self-structure, for the settlement of religious debts, for the approval of the amount of credit to new creditors are made by the religious council. Of course, it's only so right because the believers have the greatest interest, and it's to protect their money. In this whole process, we must once again stress that all stakeholders in this process are charged from the money actually paid by the companies or by the same creditors who decided, so it is not the money from the state budget, not a single fee, not a single advisor paid from the state budget. I will conclude, the public interest in this whole process is that the process succeeds in making a settlement as the final objective of this process, but we cannot subdue to that interest the interest of the creditors who, through the council of the believers, ultimately decide. Of course, I must say once again that, according to this proposal, there are still some conflicting things, future officials in line with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests cannot be members of the Board of Commerce, namely such a proposal or an extraordinary commissioner who, by the essence of the work he does, can not actually be an official of the administration. Therefore, the HDZ club will not and cannot support such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82892	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82893	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As much as colleagues from HDZ are trying to say that this proposal is a technical issue, he is the first-class political issue of counterpart Jelkovac and I hope that citizens follow this debate and that at the end of this debate will have a much better insight into what this government is and what anemic Prime Minister Plenkovic is when it is necessary to address issues that are important and vital to Croatian society. So if we follow fresh information and all documents published in the media, if we follow the Borg twilight saga, then it is clear that an extraordinary commissioner in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia is exposed to huge corrupt risks, that it is also necessary to control preventive measures. That is why our law is needed and it would be necessary for everyone in this assembly who holds on to the integrity of politics and politicians of the interest of the citizens of Croatia on Friday to support this law. There is another reason why this law should be supported on Friday, it is almost symbolic but very indicative. In 18.5. in Denmark, Croatia takes over the Presidency of the Council of Europe, and do you know what is the key objective of our Presidency of the Council of Europe? The fight against corruption, but in this fight against corruption, there is a paradoxal gathering marked as a central meeting of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, which will be called Strengthening Transparency and Responsibility with the aim of preventing corruption. And our law fits into that, and that's why Friday should support it because it would be a great message at the beginning of our presidency. But where's the ultimate cynicism? This meeting Strengthening transparency and accountability with the aim of preventing corruption on 15 and 16 October 2018, do you know where it will be held? They will be held in Zadar, I guess it's a great place to show that the former prominent minister who used his position for double-painting tunnels, for half a mile of road due to the payment of the tunnel painting, worked on the transparency of the fight against corruption. Congratulations to the one who chose the city of Zadar to hold this rally there, I will repeat, Strengthening transparency and accountability with the aim of preventing corruption. Therefore, it is impossible not to look back when we talk about this law that is aimed at this very direction, transparency, accountability, prevention of corruption, not to remind that Croatia is 57th in 2017 according to the corruption perception index in the corrupt countries. So of 168 countries, Croatia is in a circle of corrupt countries and far from the example of Slovenia, which should be some example of how to fight corruption. Everything that's going on this day, this Borg twilight saga, this... Vice-President Dalic, who makes it uncomfortable for you at HDZ, I know that, when I criticized HDZ for criminal corruption, I never talked about ordinary HDZ members, but about the tip that again and this example showed that the top of HDZ is the one that corrupts the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the loss of trust in the bodies of the public government and the feeling of corruption all around us continues in 2017 and 2018, so it is no wonder that this is Plenkovic's muttering where, first of all, by sacrificing Ramljak and then hiding under Mrs. Dalic's skirt, he only cares about his chair. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, if we want to show that we care about the interests of the citizens of Croatia, that we want to show the Council of Europe that corruption should be successfully fought, then the only thing that makes sense is to support this bill before you. Therefore, the latest scandals that take place in Croatia show that the key responsibility is always borne by the president of HDZ, so this moment Mr Plenkovic is in a swamp that is much deeper than anything that has happened with Fimi Media and we know that because of Fimi Media HDZ is an unlawfully condemned, unfortunately as is always happening with us, this process is now restored to the beginning but believe everything that was done at the time of Sanader and Fimi Media is a small baby compared to what Andrej Plenkovic is doing. Therefore, the latest scandals that rock Croatia, since the silence of the media, through the obstruction of the work of the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, not the election of Dalia Oreshkovic, which was announced by all those who defended Martin Dalic, their career is very close to their end, show why Dalia Oreshkovic was not re-elected president of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests. Therefore, we are witnessing the conflict of interest of epic proportions, the vultures directed by Andrej Plenkovic and his teammates in that direction, Dalić and Ramljak, if I am not mistaken, are 3 persons, if 3 persons are joined in some venture, we know what the undertaking is called but let the DORH and USKOK who, as far as we heard, take over all materials in the Hotmail affair to see if they are stronger than the Borg in that fight in which we hope to side with the interests of Croatian citizens. I will remind you once again of one statement: “In every corrupt society, moral and valuable foundations are not good. Sin is forgiven and corruption cannot be forgiven, it needs first of all to be cured."The words are then the young archbishop and today Pope Francis. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, we cannot forgive what the Borg team has done, Plenkovic, Ramljak, Dalić, should punish them and this proposal is going in that direction, I hope that the citizens are watching. Plenkovic shows that the only chair of the prime minister is what he is fighting for is terrible. While his relationship with philosophers, conflict of interest, violence towards women, corruption is very anemic. There's no more transfusions, there can only help the full arrival of new people. With Plenkovic, unfortunately colleagues and colleagues in HDZ, you remain a movement for Croatia bound by corruption and conflict of interest. By your vote for our law, you will show that you do not agree to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82894	Thank you. The next Club is a representative of the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82895	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. On behalf of the HSS Club, first of all, I express my dissatisfaction with the fact that the vice president has denied me the opportunity to replicate to the legislator of this law, although in time I raised the tablet, but I did not want to make a mess as others do, but I warn that it is not fair for the HSS Club and for me personally because at least we are in good order to respect the Rules of Procedure and the way of discussion in this assembly, and I would also remind the chairman that the representatives of the clubs of the ruling majority discussed in the name of the club besides the topic, in addition to the law which is the subject of the debate, so you did not warn them and you warned the representatives of the opposition. I think it's correct that everyone has the same chance and that they equally use this pay phone to make their views known. Here's my remark on behalf of the club and on your own behalf, and I believe you'll apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82896	I'm going to answer you right now, I have no reason to apologize to you, you're too late to lift a tile, it's one thing and another, I'm after a speech by my colleague, Sincic, who I let say to the end, even though he talked all the time off the subject and how it was interpreted much wider than the subject, etc., so I let the others do the same. And as you can see, everything flows normally without any excitement, don't get too excited.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82897	Here, and now I'm asking you to answer here, where it says in the Rules of Procedure that you can interrupt the club in making your views, and now you've interrupted me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82898	I'll give you that for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82899	Here you can see that we don't all have the same chance and that some are more equal in this House, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. As for the law in question, the HSS Club will support this Law amending the Law on Conflict of Interest, because we believe that an extraordinary commissioner in a system company of special importance to the Republic of Croatia is an official because it was proposed by the Government, and the court only formally appointed him. And we believe that through this Law, its activities and the activities of all future extraordinary commissioners that the government will appoint in similar companies that manage more than 7.5 billion, more than 5,000 employees, but not just because of that, but because a number of irregularities have been identified through this process. It's according to the law, but it's not normal, so Ramljak goes. She's got a stain, she's got a shadow, so Mrs. Dalic's gone, and the real question is, and that's why this law needs to determine the facts of whether or not someone put the mustache down. If we as Parliamentarians and all other officials need to give our property card at the beginning of the term of office at the end of the term of office, to compare it, then I see no reason why and someone whom the Government has proposed to manage one such, one such object that weighs more than 60 billion and where we all agree, it is necessary to preserve a number of jobs, to enable the system of economic functioning, and then fiscally, the financial Republic. And what was found? Well, here it is today. It did not go with the proposal to appoint an extraordinary commissioner from the ranks of bankruptcy managers because they have passed exams, licences, they correspond to their assets for the management of bankruptcy proceedings, and to whom does the extraordinary commissioner answer? They're telling the court. In our opinion, it's not enough because it's named by the government. Why is there still a shadow on Mr. Ramljak, and he's gone and Mrs. Dalic? Not only because of these e-mails, but because of those 500 million kunas paid to counselors. It is paid to companies in which an extraordinary commissioner and an employee, or co-owner, has been paid. Look out, 250,000 kunas paid each other a week. And who made the decision about it? we members of the Committee on the Economy, who have worked hard to read all these records, do not say anywhere in those records that the interim religious council has approved that payment is so high, nowhere. They're probably the believers that were informed about it, but they didn't vote. Who made the decision to make that kind of compensation? It is justified that it is by international practice from Italy, from the Parmalat affair and the Parmalat problem where some 3-5 % of the total enquiries are paid to counselors. And that's in Italy. Why does it have to be so much in the Republic of Croatia? I said at the time when the Committee was, until then, 300 million kuna was paid, that with these 300 million kunas, it was paid to small suppliers who at that time were not all paid, they could save about 4,000 jobs in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, counselors need to be paid, but who has made a decision on how many will be appointed and what amount will be paid to them. I am the Commissioner and apparently also knew the Deputy Prime Minister, and apparently he knew the prime minister because we see that he participated in certain meetings with the group that prepared the Law and which was later implemented by the law, as I was saying at the outset, greased the mustache. I invite them to show all the expenses they've had, if it's really worth so much. Because they did not put out individual invoices, so they received compensation, but they received compensation for their work, for their reports. Here, there's this problem, and especially when we know that Mr Ramljak was appointed an extraordinary commissioner on April 10th, and until April 20th, he was on the list in Texo Management, twenty days after that. So much comotion, so much pride that they didn't make it on time and immediately checked out on April 10th. There's already a conflict of interest, these 20 days. What happened in those 20 days we don't know, it's not in the records when the compensation decisions were made, nor what advisors would be appointed. Now, that is what needs to be asked and why this Law and why an extraordinary Commissioner should be within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Because if we really all aim to keep jobs, which is, to make a deal happen, which is, but the fact is that we're looking for the truth about how much someone has been incometing from this extraordinary administration process and solving problems inside of Agrokor. They say it's the trustee's money. Yeah, it's the trustee's money. But one of the credentials is the Republic of Croatia. And it's quieting down. Over a billion kuna is searching for the Republic of Croatia through HBOR, through other state institutions and local self-government units. How many unpaid leases for state agricultural land and concessions and other purposes? What will happen to these agricultural plants, the combination of Belje, Vupik, PIK Vinkovci? I have already asked many times whether those who will be through this new Agrokor tomorrow, the owners of these companies, will continue to produce and preserve these jobs, will only be seen, but what we now need to see through this law, through this model whether anyone has greased the mustache, it is interested in Croatian citizens, if it must be answered. If someone helped them, it is not enough just to resign, it should be answered before the law of the Republic of Croatia because I want us all to be equal in front of the laws of Croatia, and we are not. You can tell from this that we're not. Mr. Todorovic was allowed to flee to London, it took a few months to turn himself in after him to be arrested. He had a lot of time to save. It took two weeks for Mr. Ramljak to move away, stretching for a few months to move Mrs. Dalic with the aim of clearly getting something else blurred. Let's not get foggy anymore, let's just make it clear to people what's true and how dirty the mustache is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82900	I thank Mr. Vlaovic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82901	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, given that he's fast on the lines, fellow Maras, if I were to be led by one of his own, often performed in the Assembly, then he'd ask for an end to the debate, because how much does the SDP care about this debate? None of the promoters of this amendment and the addition of the law are currently in the Assembly, so there is neither Mr Bernardic nor Mr Grbin, there is no Mr Orsat Milenić and there is no Mr Bauk. They're authorized proposers on the agenda, and Mr. Maras is better off waiting for a replica instead of replicating me, so... No, I'm not asking that we stop, as far as we're concerned, it doesn't matter if the gentlemen are here, we're prepared for a debate based on what the law says, not on what Mr. Davor Bernardic is supposed to tell us, but so much about how much SDP is interested in the bill that I'm proposing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What I was about to say, regardless of what there is no proposer. I wanted to say that Mr Grbin, as one of the proposings, asked on behalf of the SDP a committee to prevent conflicts of interest, whether or not an extraordinary commissioner, by virtue of the law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in commercial societies, of systemic importance, an official in terms of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and then the Commission told him that it did not, that it did not refer to him, that he was not listed in the list of state officials, and what is most important, neither appointed by the Government nor appointed by the Parliament, therefore he cannot be included in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. I think that the SDP, despite the fact that this initiative was colored by the events around Agrokor, had one good approach to the individual, in this case an extraordinary Commissioner in Agrokor, must be under a certain public eye, all those interested in the fate of the company he manages. However, counterpart Vlaovic says before that at least he is in the position of bankruptcy managers, and I would tell my colleague Vlaovic to read the law and he will see that the provisions, as far as the liability of the bankruptcy manager is concerned, are equal to those that, in accordance with the Banks Act, are a bankruptcy manager. Therefore, the extraordinary commissioner, the extraordinary commissioner, answers for the damage he causes, causes companies whose head is, as is the bankruptcy manager in the same way for the damage he commits during the time he acts as a bankruptcy manager, the cause of the company which is in bankruptcy and whose head the court has set up, thus already in the Emergency Administration Act, and we have said so many times, over 80% of the procedural provisions rely, relying on the Banking Procedure Act. Therefore, I am not inclined to introduce, simply because of this procedure on the extraordinary administration in Agrokor, an unthinking, unsuspecting institute, an extraordinary commissioner within the meaning of the Law of Conflict of Interest, an officer who is subject to these provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I am already more inclined to think about it systematically and his position, therefore an extraordinary commissioner, as well as the position of all bankruptcy managers in Croatia. It's not an argument, or it's a contrasting argument, because a colleague named Grbin came in now, so now we have a proposing representative, although he didn't sit on the bench, but we can define why only then an extraordinary commissioner would be, because he manages a company that has over 5,000 employees and over 7 and a half billion incomes, and let's say a bankruptcy manager in a company that may have 4999 employees and has a total income of 7 billion and 450 million kuna would not be. ... Well, that's not true. You'll get a chance to do the replica, so I'll tell you that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, the court has already appointed a Commissioner after, and after, and after the law has been passed, after the law has been activated, after the former administration has signed and activated the Emergency Administration Act, then Agrokor is managed by an extraordinary administration, a religious council and a court, neither the Government nor the Parliament, and we must be aware of that. Yesterday, you are not interested in the budget, this is not about the public money, this is about the trustee's money and they are warning you nicely don't disturb us, it's about paying the counselor we're going to charge less in this process and we are aware of it and we are allowing it because we keep the extraordinary administration at the head with an extraordinary commissioner this process leads to a settlement and signing and deals will preserve our capital, our interest, not your gentlemen, not yours. That you must understand, it's not your money, it's the trustee's money. And when they give 300, 500 million kunas, they give away and they share less and instead of having financial creditors able to recover only 18 or 20% at the end of the deal, maybe if they hadn't given the money to the believers, they would have returned 24% of their money invested and they are aware of it, but they count on that extraordinary commissioner and those advisers who are there allowing them not to go bankrupt so they don't get anything. You have to understand that this isn't about my money, or the taxpayers' money, this is about the trustee's money, and nobody in this world is more interested in the credentials as much as it is and how it's spent. Comrade Maras, I speak to you all the time, do you know how long you were Minister when Agrokor took over Konzum, do you know how much Ivica Todoric and Agrokor paid the money to the advisors, do you know how much? ... Do you know how much? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So at a time when there was no need to write a settlement at a time when there was no need to analyse the financial results of five, six years ago, at a time when no restructuring plans were to be done, that year when Mr. Maras said that Mercator's acquisition was the best thing that could have happened, and that was also the stone around the door of Agrokor, Agrokor paid his advisors dear Gordana 333 million kuna without the Law on extraordinary administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82902	Mr. Bačić, I'm asking you just a little bit. Wait a minute, stop the time, please. Mr. Maras, I've already let you in a few times, based on Article 238, I'm asking you to stay away from your colleagues, and I'm warning you that a warning will be given. Thank you very much, colleague Maras. Here you go, Mr. Bucci.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Excuse me, I'm speaking to my colleague Maras because he often comes into my word, therefore, only for that reason. So I wanted to say it's important that when you hear a million and two and five, it's all a lot, and anyone gets it, and when it's most just, it's still a million kunas very much, but it's important to say that they give out those who are most interested to let them save their money that they invested there. I am not defending anyone, nor is it my goal to defend me if someone gets a lip, two, five, ten, fifteen, one million or two, I just want to say that we have to let the Croatian citizens know that this is about money from banks and financial creditors, that all small suppliers, end my time I will have opportunities in the replica. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82904	I thank Mr. Bačić. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82905	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, I must admit that I am appalled with your debate when the whole of Croatia sees that it is not moral what happened there, that people took the money that they made the law to make millions of profits, which is what everyone sees, that no one questions. Everyone's gone against that public, the media, everyone who thinks straight sees it. You defend in this House that these people had the right to take that money because, as it is not the taxpayers' money, it is the money of creditors who have not yet been established. I can't believe I hear that. All in Croatia, Mr. Bačić, do you feel lonely, one thing people don't think is what you think. You've just told everyone here it's normal. It's not normal. If it's normal, why did Martina Dalic leave the government? Tell us that, explain it to me? Now you said it was normal. Why did Martina Dalic leave the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82906	Thanks to my colleague Maras, the sounding is still good for us so you can lower your tonality. Here you go, Mr. Bacic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, your scream won't replace the arguments if you don't have them, you have no arguments for what you claim. If someone committed the crime of a colleague of Maras to suit the crime, but if that job is worth so much I don't know, the believers know it much better. And these are the top world and financial institutions there you don't understand, which is much better than Gordan Maras knows how much the job of restructuring and writing a settlement in the world is worth and they paid it and they didn't take it from you out of my pocket, or from any citizen you call on. That's your problem. If he hadn't taken Texo Management, maybe the company from Graz would have taken over 20 70 million, you don't understand, so that's your problem. ... They understand many, understand those whose interest it is, Mr. Maras, they understand very well, unlike you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82908	Thanks to my colleague Bačić, you're out of time. Comrade Maras, on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning to interfere with my colleagues in the debate. Thank you very much. We move on to the replicas, the next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82909	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, when you talk about unedited and underdeveloped institutes, I would say that the extraordinary manager is just one of them. When you talk about suppliers, or creditors and their money, I have not received the impression, nor are they all in the same position now, nor are they all satisfied, nor are they all enthusiastic about counselors and the whole process in Agrokor. A colleague, Bačić, is appointed by the court as an extraordinary commissioner, but is the only proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. A colleague of Bačić, in Croatia, laws are written in low-profile restaurants, not in the ministries and in this House. That's why this law is important. You know why it's still important? Because he's good, he's bad, and he knew it. And you know who knew? The Prime Minister knew. He knew everything. That is why this law is important and that is why transparency is very important to counterpart Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82910	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajdukovic, it is much more important to me, believe me, than your populist performances, you and the SDP. It's much more important to me that there are 60,000 employees left there. It is far more important to me that small suppliers are only in this law, in no other which would have been in force in Croatia before this law would have charged 4%, 4%, and they were 100% charged. Large suppliers, the largest, strongest Croatian companies have charged 60% by now, and by the end 84% will be charged at least by financial creditors, banks,... They'll be at least charged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to me as a parliamentary representative that Croatian suppliers in this procedure, thanks to the me who voted for this law, were charged almost the total amount of all claims before the company went to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82912	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82913	Thank you, dear Vice President. You are fortunate to have Mr. Brkic sitting, otherwise Mr. Reiner would have told you if you hadn't discussed the subject, perhaps he would have warned you in your debate. I'm sorry that you here claim that it's not your money, it's not our money, it's taxpayers' money. How much money has Agrokor been invested over the past 20 years? Support, subsidies, which, land, without how much land we may be left, is going to be done by someone else, all of what you're saying, you're trying to defend, so I understand what position you're in to defend this whole story, but sit outside on the tram, put a hat on your head so they don't recognize you, listen to what people are saying, and nobody believes it anymore. You can claim that we don't know the laws except you and the only experts who wrote such laws, but I'm telling you that the people are more mad than all that, all these years so much robbery, so many kidnappings in a legal way and that really no one is convicted today, so they're probably not going to be here either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82914	Thank you, colleague Lenart. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You usually hit your friend Lenar wrong. If you will, if you will, your party has largely managed the agricultural resort at the time. And if you could hold on to yourself for a little while then you'd rephrase to me differently. And what happened in Agrokor, the problems that happened in Agrokor in the first place, are the fault of the Agrokor administration. Maybe the state didn't react, even at a time when I was Minister and at the time of my government, or at a time when the SDP was with you, when you were with them and with us, was not the best reaction, but my colleague Lenart was primarily the owner, the administration of Agrokor, who over-indebted Agrokor and with such business determined the future owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82916	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82917	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Bacic, in the government's view, says the government of the Republic of Croatia has tasked the Ministry of Justice to prepare an appropriate legal solution. What's he saying? That the existing legislation is not clear to the end. Do you have in the government's view that the government has tasked the Ministry of Justice to prepare an appropriate legal solution, means that there is a certain vacuum in the existing law that the extraordinary commissioner does not answer to the government or the court, while the bankruptcy manager responds with his or her property, which corresponds to an extraordinary commissioner? With what? Only by her own name, only by her name and by the status of her company that had several hundred thousand kunas of traffic, and she withdrew 12 million kunas or how much she already did. That's the problem, and the interim religious council has made no decision on that amount of compensation, and that's why this law needs to determine the true truth, so please tell me, what? How could he have paid off so much and taken his company as a subcontractor and advisor?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82918	I thank my colleague Vlaović. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I said, if you were listening, at first to hold that the SDP had good intentions when it went into that procedure, but he designed a bad law, it's a bad solution, that's where it needs to be done. And I've replicated it to you, so I'm going to remind you again, so Article 11. The Act on the Extraordinary Administration Procedure shall refer to paragraph 2 as regards the responsibility of the Extraordinary Commissioner in an appropriate manner to the provisions of Articles 92 and 93. Bankruptcy Act and Article 92 The bankruptcy law says: The bankruptcy manager is obliged to compensate for damages to all participants who have wronged one of his duties. Therefore, as far as the bankruptcy manager is concerned, dear counterpart Vlaovic is also referred to as an extraordinary commissioner because he is subject to all other provisions of the bankruptcy law which, by this law, little legislation is not fully clarified and there is no doubt about it. And the government wrote nicely, and I agree with that, and I support that, and that's what my colleague Pupovac was saying, that a whole solution to the issue of responsibility and conflict of interest for the bankruptcy manager is being drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82920	I thank my colleague Bacic. Next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82921	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, you're always here to assure us that there's not even a kuna of money from the state budget, there's no public money, it's private money, it's renowned advisors who help save the company. Now, I'm curious, I understand that you're hearty defending it, maybe I'd defend it if I were you, because look, how do you explain that you're covered? Well, you have to fight to show that you didn't. So, the law for which you raised your hand and the club for which you president, its representatives, has enabled one group co-ordinated by your entry-exit member of the party and has allowed them to become rich and to draw 500 million kuna into their own pocket, and you have supported it, raised your hand. As my colleague Glasnović would say, I would feel like someone's smart fool and normally defend it because you don't want to turn out to be. And it's all clear to me. But come on, no one trusts you anymore. Give me that, try to work with those arguments tightly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82922	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82923	Imagine fellow Djujic, as much as they trust you when they leave your party daily, both representatives and members, as they trust you. And now you're telling me how much they trust us. I will tell you what is true, and that is that we in the Parliament, though the ruling majority of this Law have passed and taken over, my dear fellow responsibility until 10 April when the Law was activated. After the law was activated, a respected colleague is not responsible for HDZ. The responsibility is not with the Government, nor with the parliamentary representatives, nor with the Parliament. The responsibility is in the extraordinary administration, the responsibility is in the faith, the responsibility is in the court, and you understand that and wake up. I don't know where you live or what you read. You must read it and know that today this House cannot change anything there. The only one who can put it all together, so to speak, are the believers and the court unless the settlement is in accordance with the law and no one else, nor me, nor you, nor the Government. So much for our responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82924	I thank my colleague Bačić. Next replica, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82925	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If it hadn't been for the Croatian Parliament, there wouldn't have been a government commissioner, that potential Frankenstein. Mr. Bacic, when you say no, there are no public authorities, I completely disagree with you. The state, by passing the Law in this Croatian Parliament, decided to transfer some of the power to an entity outside the state system, gave it these public powers. In addition, the fact that the 27.2. prime minister or government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking the impeachment of the old one, according to the old commissioner's trade court and the appointment of the new one. A trade court appoints him, but you can't say the government has nothing to do with it. Also, it's not just public money in the Agrokor concert. Who wrote off the debts? State. Who rescheduled those deficits? Our taxpayers and our citizens. You can't say that this is about private money from the trustees when we know that our citizens paid for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82926	I thank my colleague, Voter. Answer, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pejo, you've lifted your head, I understand you because you know that Mrs Sabina the Voice is wrong. It wasn't the government that asked for recall, it was Mr. Ramljak's resignation. Therefore, the government did not call him off. He resigned and after his resignation, the government proposed a new commissioner. What about the recovery, fellow Voter, which one are you talking about? I don't know what kind of recovery you're talking about. It's a private company that's never been recovered by taxpayers' money. So read it a little better. Now it is likely that through the violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of the coat of arms will say something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82928	I thank my colleague Bačić. I would ask you to replicate in the future. Comrade Bačić, I would like to ask you to replicate in the future the person who gave you the replica, not the other colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Peja. You're giving up? Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, honourable parliamentary representatives, do you know that we are discussing a private company? About a private company that's... The problem, which led to the problem last year that even emptying the entire economy, Croatia is in trouble. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this law of the state, she made a good move. Do you know when Mr. Todorovic bought Mercator to pay the consultants 333 million in 2014? No one has ever talked about it in this House, and why has it been paid? Do you know, 1% gets a lawyer when you buy real estate, takes 0.5% of the public records, takes your agency of 2-3%. Therefore, this 1% paid in the Republic of Croatia would be 3% in Europe. Of course he doesn't pay the Croatian people, of course he doesn't pay the budget because the creditors who invested their money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82930	Thank you, Mouse. Answer, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As much as you have arguments in this, when you say that someone has given advisors 500 million kuna, regardless of what it gave to save the remaining 6 billion euros of its claims, it obviously does not sound good to you and it is not populist, it does not give rise to the lowest passions to spoil something in Croatia. Here, you mentioned yourself now, you buy an apartment, the agency takes 2% of the commission, the project of any facility is worth between 2% and 3%, 4%, depending on the complexity of the facility. This job, however big, expensive, enormous, I can't imagine 500 million kuna is 1% of the value that has entered the settlement and restructuring, experts, I'm not an expert, saying that it's in... 3%, but it doesn't hold water because it's simple [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That no one hears it and has any arguments. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82932	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82933	Thank you, esteemed representative Bačić, so you deceive the public when you say that the Agrokor affair of Croatian citizens will not cost a single kuna, because of the public data published that out of the 12 000 requests sent to Agrokor, 1100 drop out to the state, so if you don't know I would remind you of some of these investigations, HBOR 539 million, it could have been paid that there were no consulting contracts, HPB 327 million, the Adriatic Bank 100 million, Croatia Powered 43 million, so a whole series of state-owned companies have claims to Agror and tell me that if Croatia does not collect its claims that electricity? Here is an eclectic example of how Croatian citizens will suffer the consequences of restaurant law writing beyond all legal profession rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82934	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82935	First of all, it is not true that a colleague of Bunjac, because the state continues to charge taxes for current costs, tax administration, public companies continue to charge through the operations of Agrokora, that is clear to you. As for HABOR's position, HABOR does not enter, at least we could read it from what has been published about the future text of the settlement, HABOR does not enter into ownership, but in the coming days HABOR will charge its claim from Agrokor because it has specific and good insurance of its loans, it has good insurance and therefore the HABOR will charge for it. So that's what happened. But if it hadn't been for the law of our colleagues, then we would have witnessed what we were witnessing to a number of suppliers who were suppliers of bankrupt companies. All 4% of their claims were suppliers of the rank, which was charged in companies that went through bankruptcy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82936	I thank my colleague Bačić. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable counterpart Bačić, two days ago, sounded uglyly the statement by Prime Minister Plenkovic about the Institute of the Bank Manager where he said there was about no bankruptcy manager in Croatia who was up to this challenge to save, or to be in Agrokor. I ask the question what do you think, then, should the bankruptcy managers be deprived of the licenses given to them by the courts in Croatia? And on the other hand, when we look at what it's like. made by the extraordinary manager Commissioner Ramljak in a year, he did not make a r out of restructuring, so couldn't that any bankruptcy manager, if they agreed with Mr Plenkovic's opinion do the same and what was the same? To accommodate certain stakeholders, that there is a permanent religious council, etc. etc. So this is one sharp and humiliating attack on the bankruptcy manager institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82938	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović did not hear that statement, that statement I did not hear, I think there is an enormous number of quality bankruptcy managers in Croatia, but that does not mean if some bankruptcy managers have committed a criminal offence that they must not be subject to a criminal procedure. As for colleagues, or not colleagues, but former Ramljak's special commissioner, his work was evaluated by the faithful, those who were most interested in it. I wouldn't evaluate his work, nor am I professional enough to evaluate that work, I give confidence to those who are interested in that his work has success, has it had success, has it failed, is now more irrelevant. It is important that the new Commissioner and his deputy, together with the creditors by July 10th, make a settlement that will mark the new beginning of Agrokor and, in that sense, if this law, and the other law was not even, achieves its purpose, then we, as Parliamentarians, have done a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82940	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82941	Thank you very much. Your colleague Bacic is hardly going to explain to your colleagues anything, especially not a conflict of interest, since they are in chaos and state of emergency, but how did they resolve the debt issue in Croatia? Pre-party deals, first six months, halls, debtors, creditors, to you so much, the public notebook writes we go, only after six months they realized that maybe the court should be around, no, we remember that, someone called the robbery of the century, but what? I say when they know everything. The consultants, HPB, 10 million, privatisation, nothing, let's pay, nothing happened. The monetization of 50 million nothing happened, but these were taxpayers' funds and now, of course, they know everything, but to end up well that story they paid for them and Brown to take them up with 5 million kunas, so that they know everything about consultants, only that they're getting fatter and of course a little bit suffering from amnesia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82942	I thank my colleague, Boric. My colleague Bacic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82943	I won't spoil it, thank you, Mr. Vice President. I usually stay away from the hard words, pretty careful when I'm talking about the robbery of the century, when I'm talking about who took it, who didn't, but here it is happening that we've heard today several times about the robbery of the century, I haven't heard who took it and how much he took it. And who gave it to him would be interested in bringing it out so in detail, how much did someone take? As that 500 million kuna was deployed, who gave it, how much we as a state were damaged because of it, I am interested in it. And like this, one forest of food data, etc., etc. says more to his colleague, Boric, about him who brings them out so flatly than he whom he allegedly does not refer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82944	I thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I'm going to try to answer a few questions that you asked but let me start with what we're here for today. And this is a debate on conflict of interest, a conflict of interest that arises in the process of extraordinary administration. A procedure that we heard today was not transparent, a procedure that we heard today was a stain in it. We didn't hear it in the assembly, we heard it elsewhere, but with enough relevant sources, it was said that this was a non-transparent procedure, that there were errors in this procedure and that this procedure was not done as it should have been done. Too bad it wasn't said before when there was an opportunity to make it right. Too bad it wasn't said a year and two months ago when Professor Miladin, for example, asked for certain mechanisms to be installed, certain fuses to prevent what happened. It's not. We asked, I asked the commission to be obvious, the commission refused, after which we referred to the procedure of the law, which requires a simple basis for the matter, which is that the person the Government appoints and the Government recalls is subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest as well as the director of HEP, as well as the director of Croatian Forests or so on. Dear colleagues and colleagues who dispute that the Government has called off Ramljak, please see your Government's decision of 27 February 2018 in the signature of Andrej Plenkovic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, read Article 15. A law on an extraordinary administration that clearly states that without a government decision there is no solution. And now let's move on, you say the creditors praise the provisional council, so normally to praise it, Article 31 of the Law, the interim religious council is appointed to the suggestion of an extraordinary commissioner. He put them there, so it would be like expecting you to criticize your leader. And even a fellow Stier doesn't allow himself but just so little on the side, a little bit to burn but still not cross the border because fear is not God's give him, if he exaggerates, he'll never be on the list again. So just as you behave against your leader, so is the interim religious council against the extraordinary commissioner because he holds them in his hands, decides whether they will be there and protect his own interests or someone third. Now that's a conflict of interest that we wanted to prevent with this law. My colleague Bacic used to call me gone, but well, what they say is that a similar face hunts, non-defying points, and even now that he answers his questions he's gone, my colleague Bacic has asked the question of who's earned what. So I'll tell you. Texo Management 2016, 1.3 million kuna, 2017 8.8 million kuna. Altera 2016 780 000 kuna, 2017. Nine million and 140,000 kuna. We have a colleague who has often called for his entrepreneurial success, I have not done it so far, but now I'm going to say that I succeeded in the year today in increasing my turnover from 780 000 to 9 million legally, probably never sitting here. But that's not possible for you, dear colleagues and colleagues, even when you work 24 hours a day, it's only possible when you're part of a Borg group that makes it possible for someone else. Someone else makes it possible, fortunately former Vice President Dalic, and someone else approves everything and knows everything. And I remind you one more time because I'm going to have to tell you obviously every day multiple times because you pretend you don't hear. Mail says Deputy Prime Minister and I don't suppose she lied, at the very least, that authenticity was confirmed by both her and the Prime Minister, "The Prime Minister asked you to come to the government tomorrow on the subject we're working on." Dear colleagues and colleagues, the prime minister knew everything. And the ones we talk about who took advantage of it, and now, every week, they invoice and orderly charge 250 000 kuna. This debate lasts about 4 hours, in 4 hours and Texo and Altera put 6,000 each in their pocket. And you don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82946	I'd like to thank my colleague, Peggy Grbino. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82947	Thank you very much. Mr. counterpart Grbin, you mentioned a religious council, I ask which religious council is temporary, whom is it represented at this moment when at this religious council and those who, thanks to HDZ and colleagues, are no longer believers, little believers, whom do they represent there? Who do they work for? On the other hand, you said about the amazing successes of these entrepreneurs, who from year to year have doubled both traffic and profit and you have combined it with a colleague in the Croatian Parliament who is an experienced entrepreneur, who, no matter what he tried and worked for, could not even dream. He couldn't even dream, here's a colleague here, looking back at him, he's an experienced businessman, he's such a success, no matter what he's done in his life, he couldn't even dream. How come this gentleman, our colleague here, couldn't dream like that and he's a successful businessman with great experience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82948	Thank you, colleague Maras. A fellow coat of arms answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You asked your esteemed colleague who he represents or who he represents as a religious council, so I must correct you immediately, not a religious council, but a provisional religious council. The law began to apply on Agrokor on 10 April 2017, the deadline provided for by this law was one year until 10 April 2018. Within that time period, it was not possible to form a permanent religious council. We are now in extensions, not that we are in extensions but we are in half extensions, not yet appointed a permanent religious council. The temporary religious council shall represent exclusively the one to whom Article 31 is complied. The Law on Extraordinary Administration proposed, and it is an extraordinary commissioner, and you and I both know it, the entire Croatian public has appointed the Government, which is very clear in support of the fact that the interim religious council is both the government's voice and the ruling majority, and it is no wonder that this is why...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82950	Thank you, colleague Grbin, I'd like to ask you to watch your time. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Grbin, our law is called the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it seems that colleagues from HDZ are persistently ignoring what is a conflict of interest, so I would remind them that conflict of interest is when an individual performing a certain public function, for example. Deputy Prime Minister and then in agreement with the Prime Minister as did Dalic and Plenkovic, he comes to the opportunity to benefit himself or himself from close persons. That's what we had, that's an example that's completely clear and accurate. So Mrs Dalic, in agreement with Andrej Plenkovic, made a huge profit for herself, a conflict of interest. And that is why it is no surprise that at the moment 12,000 who have announced on the Index.hr that Prime Minister Plenkovic should leave, it is 90%. I call on the citizens to continue voting to get an Andrey message about what to do to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82952	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. A colleague's response to the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic. Today I had a chance to hear a whole series of politicians from our home talking about this situation. One of them was also Mr. Vice President, who said in the same way as the Prime Minister claimed that he did not know what was going on. If that is true and if as the Honorable Vice President argues, it only says one thing, that the Prime Minister is not up to his job because the Prime Minister did not know what was going on under his nose perhaps most important or as he says surely the most important problem that hit the Republic of Croatia of its independence. But to believe that, the best way to say the email that I read again is because I think everyone has to know it, and that's "The Prime Minister is asking you to come to the government tomorrow on the subject we're working on," and then evaluate it because I'm sure the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament didn't lie, not like a colleague of Hebrang, I'm here earlier convinced that someone and him served incorrect information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82954	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. You've dropped a little bit of my statement on my information that I own. Let's move on, next replica, dear colleague Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82955	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you've been trying all afternoon to explain to the masters the replacement of the thesis, which is precisely colleagues from HDZ who, of course, are talking about something that isn't even a subject of this law or anything. So they speak but of course to those whose IQ is less than the size of the number of shoes they're talking about is that it's an important amount of fee taken by advisors, and of course it's important, of course, but in this case it's not. There's a conflict of interest here that's simple, one team proposed a job for another team, and the other team then made it up to them by giving them that job. Did they take 300 million, 500 million, and they're going to take who knows how much more of this is the point of this whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82956	I thank my colleague Matic. I would ask you not to disrespect anyone, none of your fellow MPs, with your statements in this House of High. The answer of the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I'll have to agree with you because you're right. I think that fellow Matic made a bit of a mistake, the HDZ colleagues know exactly what we're talking about, the colleagues sitting here in the assembly are blushing because they are fully aware of what the Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Dalic, did under the watchful eye and the pass of the Prime Minister. They're fully aware of that. When you say they're changing the thesis, you're right because it's the only way they have to defend what happened here in this situation, and it's very simple, someone is allowed to increase their income ten times in a year. Well, you know that, and in a drug business, it's a little harder to make it happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82958	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, the coat of honor. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82959	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. So you asked the question how it's possible for incomes to increase ten times. So let's say you're a lawyer, and for 20 years, charge your services for, say, a thousand kuna, and from tomorrow, charge them for ten thousand kuna. We have two options, one possibility is that you became a genius overnight and realized something that you didn't know before, so now your services are so valuable, and another option is that you charge so much for the services if you have to pay someone else, you have to raise the cash and take it to someone in a white bag to give them a reward because they gave you a new big investment job. Since I think this first variant is impossible, I don't believe that someone can suddenly acquire Superman's abilities, it seems to me that this is a classic example of corruption, let's just say it's from American movies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82960	Thank you, comrade Bunjac, answer, comrade Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82961	A colleague of Bunjac, I believe that like me and most of the Croatian public, you have read these e-mails that appeared on the website of the Index portal and I believe that you have encountered one where the Borg group defines who will be a restructuring consultant in Agrokor. Is it? I guess so. If you looked at that email, you saw that there were several bidders who offered their services, as a restructuring consultant Alix Partners was not the most expensive, there was one more expensive, but there were renowned advisory agencies, which offered their services, three times cheaper than the Alix Partners. They were not selected by an extraordinary commissioner, not selected by an independent body, selected by the Borg group, and from this Borg group, 2 members made contracts and made $250,000 a month within a few days after the election of restructuring advisers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82962	I would like to thank my colleague Grbin for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, when we speak of, you have suggested, in fact, your party the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. I hope you agree with me, as a lawyer and a lawyer, so that Lex Agrokor may call the law on fostering conflicts of interest. So please say, in this context, the thesis is constantly spreading here, that the citizens of Croatia are protected, therefore, that they will not pay any lip, so how can you comment on this situation, therefore, that the money has been deposited around 500 million kuna on consultants. They're ordering us, the ruling majority, which you're worried about, it's private money, it's not a state firm, etc. But as a lawyer, if a wave of lawsuits comes from the credentials, and even the owner still owns Agrokor, how will this affect taxpayers and not, does that mean that they manipulate such statements to the public?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82964	I would like to thank my colleague Lovirović, my colleague Grbin's reply, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82965	To answer your question, dear colleague, you don't need to be a lawyer, you just need to understand the foreign languages a little bit, progogol and look at those comparable examples, on which this whole story about Agrokora is based, and this is the famous Italian lex Parmela. The tails have been dragging around for years and dragging around. And I'm going to tell you just one thing that they said, all those who are connected to the Italian economy and who know something about the country's economy. If lex Parmalt was worth it, it would have been applied another time, and it wasn't, and it wasn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82966	I would like to thank my colleague Grbin for his reply, and we would like to move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82967	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The way of selecting the extraordinary administration of Agrokora is one form, by which the Croatian state generally operates in the past 28 years where all institutions of the state are ignored, where the rule of law is ignored, and where decisions are made at some level, secret societies, informal... which consists of restaurants, vineyards, in some scarce places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is just the tip of the ice santa, only because we managed to get to the emails, which revealed all the pale Croatian politics in this case, but certainly not the only case. I believe in these cases that there is a tremendous amount, that practically every law, as far as citizens are concerned, is written in this way, whether it is the privatisation of the INA, whether it is the Executive Law, was the introduction of LNG terminals and whatever else. In this case, the case of the extraordinary administration of Agrokora is not only about conflict of interest, it is about the joint criminal enterprise, which allows enemy takeover, the biggest Croatian companies and practically all Croatian food production, by the Russians and Americans, who, for those who do not know, at the very beginning, had 29% of the company's claims and today their claims in some sort of settlement plan have grown to over 50%. When we were writing lex Agrokor, we had an informal group, so, a group that was never appointed by anyone, and at least from some institutions, which had no working deadlines, which had no fees, allegedly worked for free, which was exactly an impertinent and faceless lie, and that group did, however, using not only privileged information, but confidential information, which the government had, in the end, when it wrote that law, that same group was implementing it and making enormous sums on it, which were only 12 months. conduct lex Agrokor, all growing together to 580 million kuna. The informal group, not only did it not act by law, but completely ignored and ridiculed the profession's opinions. Please imagine that the party, who here is hypocritically speaking in the House about the fight against communism, says that it is good Stalinism, to whom God has given it. Imagine what they say, and here they tell the SDP, they're red and they swear themselves to Stalinism. Not only did that group steal money from a private company, it doesn't matter, says MP Bačić, so they didn't steal mine. So is it theft, or is it stealing only when they steal from me? This group has absolutely no results, no results. Please, Mr. Pupovac, you could read that sentence, as the law is passed on the day Belgrade is bombed and ask who you support. Because Agrokora's business has dropped 20%, the results have fallen, the revenues have fallen, the settlement plans are gone, the religious council is gone, the settlement deadline is gone, the fear of the lawsuits has not been removed. Government officials, beware of the people we have to trust most, lie, lie, lie to foreign bankers when they tell them the situation in Agrokor is good, for example. when Vice President Dalic lies to Mr. Polletev from Sberbanka. When she comes to the assembly board and they ask her if she knows Mr. Shavoric, if she has anything to do with him, she says I have nothing to do with him. For a year we should have been able to find out that Vice President Dalic was involved in writing that law, but she did not say what other writers of the law were. She resigned, but you must know that she did not give the order to lex Agrokor write, the order was given by Andrej Plenkovic, it was his work, he was the employer, Andrej Plenkovic had replaced Dinka Cvitana and Dalia Oreskovic just to cover up the crime around Agrokor. This same one, Andrej Plenkovic, six, seven days ago when he was confronted with evidence of corruption and crime at the very top of the government that concerned him himself said it was a hybrid factory, that it was a joke and a party, that was the party of the gentlemen of the HDZ? You're having fun? With what? You're having fun with the fate of your own people, very funny. Your prime minister's career is over, not just his career, Martina Dalic, and you know it very well, you defend it indefensibly, and you're trying to convince yourself that everything is fine. He must go along with his Rolex Minister Zdravko Maric, who also knew everything about the Agrokor affair and the writing of this law. Your Andrej Plenkovic managed to do one thing that I admit is impossible, he did one thing that man couldn't hope for in the darkest dream, namely, he managed to make Ivica Todorovic a victim, he even made it a nice one part of the public, for it really should have special abilities. Be careful that the extraordinary administration has hired 141 advisers, along with 56,000 employees in Agrokor, they need 141 advisers, so what is the world’s brains that these advisers must receive 8,000 kuna every day? Tell me, please, what is the wisdom of this world that must be paid so much? No, they don't cost so much, that money was paid to send the same advisors money to their political protectors, that money was dirty money, he wasn't used for advice, he was used for payment and read his sentence to Martina Daliæ in those e-mails, I read them, thank you, Mr. Gbindese, says everything has to be paid, everything has to be paid, and then you obviously paid, you just have to tell me which politicians and what amounts. I also have to mention here these coalition partners, puppets and alleged independent MPs who cheat on voters and support this crime, if you gentlemen have been in a coalition with the alleged coalition, and you have come from parties that were not in the 11th 9th coalition so far were ignorant and uninformed in what is being done, or do you care? As of today, you can't claim that you don't know, from now on you can only say one thing whether you support crime or not? There's no third. Make up your mind. You're threatening the election, I don't know what it is, but this is not about the election, or the rating, or anything, this is about the truth, this is about justice, this is about stopping an octopus that destroyed our country of Croatia. Therefore, stop corruption, cancel the consulting agreements immediately, call the elections and show you have the trust of the people. I regret to say that MOST members also knew the names of consultants and did not publish them to the public. 12.4. The names of consultants in Agrokor were published, and they knew who were members of the Borg group, so why didn't the gentlemen of the Most tell us in a year who these people were? Why did we have to question the committees, in front of the press, and you had that information? Why did you even raise your hand to vote Martina Dalic, why did you raise your hand to vote Lex Agrokor? Why did you not contact Mr. Peter Milodin when you had the Ministry of Justice, why did you ignore the public advice and comments of lawyer Jasnica Garasic? Why did you vote for the law that went to harm the state? And I'm sick of hearing these comments that the HNS says that lex Agrokor is the best law in the world, and you gentlemen from the HNS raised your hand against that law, spat on that law from 7.5.2017 to collect signatures from us from the Living Wall to bring down the government. And now you're saying it's the best law in the world, so is there more hypocrisy in Croatia politics than anything like that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82968	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82969	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you are referring to the Agrokor system listed, here the ruling majority is constantly saying that it was not lex Agrokora all would have failed, we see that the decline in sales, that about 3,500 people came out of the workers' system, etc. But they keep saying that this management is effective, so please, if it was effective, why did Mr. Ramljak leave? If it was effective why Mrs. Dalic left, but you don't think that here is at all a crucial question, however important it is, that 500 million kuna of consulting fees. The issue of relations between the East and the Russian banks and the US Investment Fund is crucial. If Mr Plenkovic had protected Croatian national interests with his government, then he would not have been dragged around the media like this because the people would have stood by him and everything would have been settled. But this is how it's constantly leaking, it's being blackmailed, and it shows that this government isn't running... politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82970	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82971	Thank you very much. Representative Lovrinović, what success can we speak if Agrokor shares fell by 95%? What kind of success can we talk about if the revenues are down 20%? What success can we talk about if they are 31.12.2017 to 31.12. 2300 workers from Agrokor fired? What success if a temporary religious council in the Commercial Court is brought down, if there is no settlement deadline, if the Directors of Agrokor do not want to sign the documents sent to them by an extraordinary commissioner, if Agrokor continues to threaten bankruptcy, if Agrokor has stopped being a Croatian company and ended up in foreign hands? What success and brilliance can we talk about when the extraordinary commissioner and his mentor, Vice President Dalic, had to resign within a year? Are those the successes we're talking about? Well, I don't know what they're talking about. He wants to make sure the sun is green and the grass is red. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82972	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82973	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dude, you were talking about an octopus. I'm sure these aren't all her legs. Here, today's national writes, of course we know what headlines are often done, but surely there are numerous indications inside, let's remember the role of this media in Mr. Karamark. So far, unknown correspondence, shocking messages and internal documents reveal the incredible greed of the "Hot Mail" affair. We discover that the members of the Borg group before Agrokor are engaged in another big grab operation and what connection Ante Ramljak has to HEP and Morgan Stanley's company, which advises the government in the recapture of MOL's shares. So, I haven't read it yet, this is probably exclusive today. However, it would certainly be interesting for the investigative institutions to examine what the Borg group did before Agrokor. Their intentions are obviously not honorable; they were certainly not honorable to them before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82974	I thank my colleague Sincic. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82975	Thank you very much. Representative Sincic, there must be one thing that you claim is that the illegality and crime of Agrokor did not begin in March 2017. They began long ago, according to the audit houses report, back in 2007. We have very clear indications that the boss bribed individual politicians, and that they were giving him subsidies and loans without any real guarantees that they would be returned, that they would be embezzled with tax evasion, etc. But that, just what I said earlier, is just amazing that in just a year, the extraordinary administration managed to overshadow all of this with its vultureing, its even greater muttering and concealment and withdrawal of money from Agrokor. So it's basically the only relevant success of the extraordinary administration that they managed to be even worse than the one that was in itself bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82976	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Bunjac, if it weren't for a serious debate, I'd be laughing at the heart of a living wall crying like that over the fate of a bank. A living wall that satanizes banks, loan-holders, who take, perform, block, etc., and the same banks. Now you're crying over fate because the councilors allegedly stole it. I'm not a sign that your voters and voters will be so cryin' over those banks, they'll be in a very good mood. No one's ever stolen a bank, pal Bunjac. Banks were best able to work with money. They're the top credentials. They would not have given counsel nor pleasure, but they would have taken it from them, but only out of interest would they have kept their money there, and those who believed serve them would have kept it. They wouldn't let anyone steal them, you know that very well. They'd take counsellors. But they gave them counseling in the faith that they would benefit from it primarily. So don't worry about the fate of the banks, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82978	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82979	Thank you very much. So, in the inability to respond too much to my debate, MP Bacic now says that we are crying over banks. We simply asked where the loans were paid through state banks and if these loans could be returned. These are Croatian citizens' money and if they cannot return, it is clear that Croatians will be spared, Croatian citizens will suffer damages because they will have to pay more taxes, because they will have less credit available and generally less trust in the whole society. That's the problem. And you didn't answer the question of how many crimes were committed by writing lex-Agrocor? Is it just three? Are you just trading privileged information? Whether it's just a trade in influence or there's been other crimes, and I hope that's soon to be revealed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82980	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. There's a very short law ahead of us, and I'm going to quote just one part of it. Veli, new point 42, which is an extraordinary commissioner in companies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Is this provision proposed by the legislator corresponding to the fact that it is today? He's not answering. And you know why? Because if you are referring to certain provisions of the Law, then you have to go to analogy, so under point 41 you have to have the presidents and members of the management of commercial companies that are mostly owned by the state. If you wanted to include an extraordinary commissioner in that article in that item because it was deliberately placed point 42, then it would be a logical thing because today we have an extraordinary commissioner and his deputy. So it would be logical that the legislator, by respecting today's factual situation, had accepted it and proposed it. 'Cause look, this bill of law can't be applied today, practically, because what about the deputy, where she belongs, she's gone. I understand that the legislator of the law when he proposed the law, and that is legitimately political law, has asked how the business and technical possibility of opening up a debate on Agrokor in this House, and I respect that, it is legitimately political law. However, if you want something, and if you want to be serious about today’s force of this debate, it was just not about conflict of interest. No one mentioned if you heard any of the promoters, someone mentioning the fact that at this point we have an extraordinary commissioner and his deputy? No, I don't. The second thing that is particularly important, when we talk about the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and Article 20, because at the moment of the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner, he knew that he would be subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, he would think very much about the provisions of Article 20. And what he says, this Article 20 in its paragraph 1 states "A official shall not accept a designation or a choice within one year of the termination of office or a contract that enters into a working relationship with a legal person who, during the conduct of the term of office, was in a business relationship or at the time of the appointment of the election or the conclusion of the contract and of any circumstances of the particular case, clearly intends to enter into a business relationship with the body in which he acted." Now, look, how many thousands and thousands of business entities are coming into contact with this problem? And now, look, he's past his term, we've declared him an official, and this provision of Article 20(1) applies to him as it applies to all of us. Now ask yourself a question since the people who do this work are specific knowledge, experience and education, who, under the conditions that after the term of office, can practically not work anywhere accept that fact? So much for the seriousness of the bill. Because when the legislator proposes the law then he must analyse all the provisions of this law, he must analyse the provisions of the so-called Law. bound by laws relating to that law. And then we show our seriousness, show our desire to really do something, show our desire to really look like something. And if we had talked at this 4.5 hour today in this way, we would probably agree that there might have been a failure that some things might have had to be defined whether lex Agrokor or something else, no, we were talking about everything and everything but what's the subject of this law and what's the subject of the proposer. Or colleagues and colleagues, let us take this law to be passed on Friday, which provisions concern the deputy deputy Commissioner? The extraordinary commissioner ends up in the hospital, God forbid, all jobs, deals, negotiations, etc. He's running his deputy. It's not about this law. Why am I saying that? Because the applicant did not place the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner in the end of the list, but he introduced it on purpose after point 41 at point 42, because it speaks in point 41 of the talks on the chairman of the management and members of the company management, so he wanted to withdraw this one analogy of equality between members of the board of state and of the extraordinary commissioner, alluding all the time that the Government had appointed something. But if you're looking for one then... I repeat, what if he ended up in a hospital? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A deputy or a deputy doesn't tie them up, doesn't drag them. So much for the real care of tens of thousands of employees in Agrokor, so much for tens of thousands of employees of the cooperatives. Commissioner, we will only be able to talk about his work results once the process is completed, about his possible insubordinations, so we have the institutions of this country doing their job. But look, colleagues and colleagues, I remember the time of March 2002 stories about this need to be settled and a law with a limited duration of nine months on outstanding claims is passed. The loud noise of halabuka, a billion kuna, but by some criteria some have been resolved. It's the same political nomenclature, a very similar idea, but now it's called the Pre-war settlement Act. On Friday, the last day of the session, we passed the Act on pre-accession settlement and everyone in the Parliament, I don't think there was one, two MPs who were against it even though we had certain objections, but we wanted to help the Croatian economy. And you know what happens Thursday at the first cabinet meeting after the Parliament's session is stopped, the constitutional right is used that the government can regulate certain legislative issues by regulation when the parliament does not sit. And a law that has some fifty articles in 45 articles is changed. And you know what the most important change is? The most important change is for those companies to have daughters, etc. who have created certain debts enter into that religious group and are practically conducting a pre-determined settlement. It's all going six, seven without anything in a certain way, and it's all wonderful and wonderful, transparent, none of us have talked about crimes now, or this, or that, we've warned that something has been done that's not okay, but rhetoric like we're listening today is not my intention, not to defend anyone at all, nor to cover anyone. I said in a show a long time ago that my own father made, rest his soul, I won't say that word because they attacked me because I said it, so be it, so be it in this situation. No one in HDZ thinks to defend or protect anyone. But here you're talking about what's really the measure of things, given someone in the interest of really changing the law to regulate this area or was it an interest to get a chance to do some things? So we'll talk about privatisation, the recapitalisation of Croatia's insurance. What about the money spent on the highway monetization? Eat the donkey wolf. Are we gonna talk about some other stuff? So colleagues and colleagues, we have state institutions, we respect them, let them do their job. They file that report to this High House, let's have the courage to tell them in person you didn't do it and that. Because it's better to have a bad institution than no institution. A bad institution can be fixed, and if you don't have any, then you have the show you have. So, and I'm going to end up with that, you're serving the thesis that this is going to cost taxpayers, no. Those whose money will be taken, they have made their position clear. And they sent, not once a message to the civil servants of this side of Parliament, please don't protect us, we'll be fighting our war and our care for our employees and our money as we know it. And let them do it. We have no right to interfere in these relationships. Someone will say, he has appointed commissioners, to appoint them, but by some criteria, actually an extraordinary religious council, but by some criteria, I don't like Franjo, so I'm going to name Franjo, etc. That's some sort of criterion. So if he named someone into that religious council who didn't belong here, then perhaps one of these dissatisfied would rebel, did you hear such a rebellion? Some of them didn't make the deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82982	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82983	Although it would be right to report on behalf of the promoter, I'll be brief. As fellow Shuker, while respecting the arguments you have made in the debate, we will propose an amendment that the deputy deputy Commissioner should also be covered by this law, we will do so after the debate, so that on Friday we can discuss this further if you want to discuss it, and we will also consider leaving the Commissioner in charge for some time to decide whether he wants to continue to act on his duty or not, so that there will be no such degree of retroactivity. Although, when this law was passed in the previous term of office in 2010, in the 11th year, we were all then officials and referred to us as defacto retroactively, so whenever this law is passed, it is retroactively applied when some obligations are further created. We had to sign those statements, then do it like that, so here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82984	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82985	Comrade Bauk, if you said that four and a half hours ago, I'm taking off my hat. No, I'm sorry, you're the proposer of the law. I came in a position to speak my mind about the law, I told it. So you suggested something that you yourself don't know how to apply. When I spoke in my discussion, I was talking about a bad bill. Also what you said, we as officials, that fellow Bauk, and you, and me and all my colleagues here when we accepted the candidacy for the Croatian Parliament we were aware that we were concerned with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and what that means. But someone who's accepted something so now I'm offering it, and I'm explaining why, is something that's very difficult to talk about. But I also said that some things should have been regulated, so I didn't say that everything was wonderful and wonderful, that was so, but I repeat, that you said four and a half hours ago, then it's an honor. But like this, the cost of mind is sometimes very expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82986	I would like to thank my colleague Shuker for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82987	Thank you very much, Vice President. You've got your friend Shucker in a good position to direct your argument and hit the core. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is also a questionable provision that officials cannot be members of the administration, and I wonder whether the applicant will also propose an amendment in this regard. Obviously, they did not even consider the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest when they proposed this. And I'm also wondering if what they've been talking about today under the name of the Hotmail affair would have been prevented if Commissioner Ramljak had become an official at that time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82988	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82989	Yes, colleague Jelkovac, you have actually touched Article 14 which clearly defines who can, who cannot be a member of the board of directors, supervisory boards, companies owned by the state. So I could mention this article 14 and some other laws that, if we wanted the provision of Article 3 to be like this, should have been applied. And you who said that someone was, knew that being an official, the question would have taken over or wouldn't have taken it. Another thing, some things happened the way they happened. Whether they were in accordance with the law or not, it will be decided by someone else. But I repeat, we are here today discussing the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. And we've been here today discussing everything and it's based on half the information. And half the information can sometimes cost these hundreds of thousands of people who are tied up with how this whole process is going to end and so I say, it will be convenient to discuss when this whole process is over, how someone did or didn't do the job, and this was just the basis for a political debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82990	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going into controversy with you right now. I have two short questions for you in essence, but before I ask you questions, because I am interested in your opinion, I just want to draw your attention that when you talk about this Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner, we, when we referred to the procedure of this law, were then Mr Ramljak himself. So the government appointed one commissioner without his deputy, so that's why we listed it as just saying but the debate serves so here, your proposal is good, and we'll appreciate it, which is why the debate is. Don't talk now, that you're arguing so we won't be able to appreciate it. Secondly, I'm interested, your personal opinion, whether you consider that a person who, as Mr. Ramljak, should be handed over the property before entering a process like this and after completion or not. And secondly, all the time you've been talking about criteria, would you, as a leading person, put in a position of a man who worked in a company who worked for 3 years with losses, at a salary of £4,500 with 2 employees, to pull out a company, with a turnover of billions and tens of thousands of employees. Here, when we talk about criteria, Mr. Ramljak is specifically concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82992	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic, here's your colleague Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82993	Comrade Djujic, you, unfortunately, do not often listen to what your colleague in the Parliament says, I was talking about criteria for a religious council, and this is not it. So that's one thing. The second thing, that this is a serious proposal, the proposer when he proposes something, then quotes everything that has happened since he passed the law until the moment of the debate. So, from the moment the proposer of this law happened, we only have an extraordinary commissioner and his deputy. So now that I've told you this, now that I've told you, all of a sudden, we knew it. Obviously, if you hadn't thought about it at all, you're here today, wanting to parade yourself. To talk about something, which is how it is, but I repeat, we've had very similar situations, where it's far more social money. Well, we didn't do parades like that, because we have one social responsibility. Therefore, you weep as much as you want, but this government, not a week after the Parliament's sitting, has changed the law that changed it, as it is said upside down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82994	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker, so he'd like to ask his colleagues and colleagues, no trespasses while other colleagues respond. The next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82995	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said, or... whether there was a conflict of interest in one part of its debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much says that there was a conflict of interest and that it should be questioned, among other things... Ramljak left because he had put his company as a subcontractor and had paid himself, i.e., a certain amount of money from April 10th, until April 30th, he was still an employee of his company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much for that, and second question to you, did you see that contract with the counselors? Which says, did you see that contract with the counselors, did you have a chance, didn't you? We don't know what it says about him, if there's a deal, what we all want, they'll get a reward. Now this won't be 10, 12 million kn, maybe 15 million kuna. Would you live another year with 15 million kunas, I think you would, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82996	I would like to thank my colleague Vlaović, my colleague Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82997	My colleague Vlaovic, I've never in my life been this volunteering, popularally speaking about certain things, therefore, I won't even answer what you last said, would give it one way or another. So the contract is what it is. Whether someone was in conflict of interest or not. If this is not decided by the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, there are other institutions, which assess whether someone has guessed or not. Therefore, there are state institutions doing their job. But very interestingly, the motioner did not respect the Committee's opinion on the prevention of conflicts of interest, very interesting. So you have inside and what the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has said about this bill. Now, are we going to mix pears and apples, a relationship of private and public and whether some people will become prosecutors and judges and investigators, etc., from then on. This House has always passed laws and appointed leaders of institutions that were obliged to implement this law. And these leaders report to this House then everyone has the right to say what's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82998	I would like to thank my colleague Shuker for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u82999	Thank you, Vice President, so, fellow Shucker, you mentioned the pre-departure settlements parade, and it is very interesting to mention that in the total pre-profit settlements, it was actually forgiven over 2 billion kunas, therefore, the state budget was damaged for that amount, which is here, and out of the 45.7 billion claims accepted, i.e., obligations, therefore, when compared to the situation in relation to Agrokor, where there is no actual damage to the state budget in this way and where the small suppliers are in general, and especially the small ones who have failed, are paid here in full, starting with the OPG and the small suppliers, and these even financially and the rest will be settled for more than 70% and 80%, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83000	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric, the answer, my colleague Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83001	Yes, colleague Peric, we keep forgetting what happened in that first rush and statements afterwards, not the chosen people in the religious council, but suppliers, small, medium and large. So they publicly said that they were calmed down, some 100%, some 50, there... What's done is done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's it. And the pre-party settlements, all of which are part of the political decision is the move of a political nomenclature, that after the economic crisis, it is helping the economy, to be some kind of economic swing and the state has given up, one part of the claim they made that would be hard to collect. Although these companies, today, have remained to exist if they work, it can be said, even that it was justified. But there's only one elemental thing going on, if we're so principled today, so generous, we want so much to talk about honesty and correctness, how that nobody bothered, that six months. Pre-warrant settlements were conducted without judicial authorities. At the same time, prominent judges and lawyers warned that it was not okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83002	I would like to thank my colleague Shuker for his reply. We move on to the next discussions, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83003	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I don't know how to get into this bill at all, how to discuss it, maybe it's best to figure out how my colleague Bauk said this this morning, maybe it's to discuss it in a way that we've proposed a law to talk about Agrokor in the area of conflict of interest, and here's the story more or less here, so we're going to use some law that needs to be solved to talk about the situation in Agrokor. And what it looks like when the SDP affords one such law, in the 3 articles of several mistakes that simply qualify them to even evaluate that Lex Agrokor as bad. When we look at what they have managed to do in 3 articles, forget the deputy, then turn this extraordinary commissioner into an official, and even then he could not be a member of the administration. And that's the solution they offer in 3 articles. But they would have solved the situation without a problem. They would have solved the situation without a problem only had to be asked back then a year and two months ago when they left the presidency, on 14.3., said Hajdash we ask the government to do something for these people who work there, to react, to do something to save jobs and not to sink that concert. And today we're listening to what they know, what they learned in a year of applying that law and it wasn't that they were very ignorant, no. But the fact is that from the beginning, of course, we've been pushing for bankruptcy, and they clearly said that here in their debate, let's apply the bankruptcy law, a couple of amendments, and let's go sort it out that way, so whatever happens, we're not in power. And then when you don't have any responsibilities, so let the people roll the streets, we might catch a few and a political point. And of course, what have we witnessed in the last 12 months of that law? First we were accused of protecting Todorovic, so it took some time to give up. And then it started to think about the law, and then it went into a single article of the law, and then in public for months or months or months or months, it was about whether it was better to stand still or roll up, and then it was about to spin, and then there was this vulture's fund making a lot of money, and it lasted a month and a half, and it gave up. And then there's an investigative committee, how we're going to solve the situation in Agrokor, an investigative committee. But not just any of them, but we're going to go to the '90s, and by 2018, we're going to put it all on our backs to this government, and we weren't doing anything when we were in power, so what does it matter that some Agrokor in 2014 was in charge of 2 billion euros, nothing, that was a great move. What if we were mad at that, so that was a great move. Of course, and what happened after that? Nothing. Well, then they started when it was over, and then we can't replace an extraordinary commissioner, not at all, and it took a month. It was an article by article, a small matter was sought to create an impression in public, of course the pressure of many who were interested in something happening in this Agrokor in the way it was thought through the law and to come to an end. Well, of course, that wasn't enough either. And then the recalls started. 11 months of government impeachment, we're going to replace the government, everything's been missed. Of course, there were problems again, many did not even appear, they simply did not believe themselves what this request for recall was. So again after a little New Year's Eve, it's moving again, now it bothers Ramljak, it needs to be removed, and removed. Well, in the end, counselors, here's the finale. The advisors, and that's part of it all, let's go and sort it out and talk about Agrokor for a full year and a half, almost make it impossible for normal, people asking us there to provide peace only, only peace to solve it as believers, debtors, suppliers, to find the best way to solve their problems. And what are your problems? 57 billion. And we all expected it to go so peacefully, nothing at all, so it's kind of a small amount of money, so we'll deal with it this way, with a finger shot, no problem. Now we've seen three articles on how they solve it. How did they handle it? When we had 42 billion non-payments in the system. The finance minister and one of your colleagues sitting here today as his deputy minister, he says we'll settle it with pre-price deals. And we really, let's do this thing, back it up. After six months, one judge came out Sunday at 2 p.m. when he revealed what it was, everyone began to wonder how such a perfect government could pass such an imperfect law? We heard from fellow Shuker that the government had dealt with it in a regulation. Well, somewhere in some halls, they made a deal with a public notary that would verify it, to you so much, these big ones took it all, and those little ones, you go there and what you're going to look for. Well, that's perfection. And then a colleague who was the minister of small entrepreneurship thus lost one 70,000 small entrepreneurs and crafts. And he says let me handle this today, so I can solve Agrokor and speak a little harder because he knows it, because he had his subcontractors as far as I can see on one portal. And, of course, what's the issue? As always to the party. Why does someone make money? And why would you make something you shouldn't? And they didn't care what they did. Let's remember today, I repeat today, monetizing highways. They say what matters is that it's 50 million and we didn't do the job, but it was in a public competition. It doesn't matter what we didn't do. So then HPB, so what does 10 million have to do, which we didn't do anything, but he was in a public competition, so some of them here today are mentioned as a law firm. But what difference does it make when a party divides, divides 90 billion in four years, creates a public debt, you can take care of it, gentlemen. In this way, by making it easier for us to actually create among the citizens the resignation and the way they look at us. And one situation that really threatened to go the wrong way and that we look different here today. Today, after a year, we see ourselves as a whole new situation. And even those who wrote the Law together with us at HDZ say they didn't see a million controversial details there, and they voted for it. So, try to think about something in advance, we form our own positions. For what? Well, today is not popular being a government. It's better to be somewhere, talk something smart, this is how we heard something here today, and it just seems to me that we're in some state of afternoon funk, and I'm not going to explain what it means, like a psychophysical state in the pursuit of anything. Because I see the meaning of really this discussion of the three articles completely missed that each other is being kicked out of touch, we could say that. Like some kind of surrogate law. And then we came to a conflict of interest... So I don't know which minister in the government of Zoran Milanovic was not in conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember my colleague Lesar, he reported the whole bus was there. If they'd gone there, they'd have gone there... What is it? It is. [[You can't hear it.]] The whole bus was reported by him. And then we created this committee to today's situation to see the ministers as at some kind of public trial there, the officials who come there, the camera shoots them, they have to watch what they're going to say, as they're going to say, if they're writing all kinds of notes. I mean, everything's fine. But let's state secretary, write down a law that fits a situation. Let's correct all these mistakes that we've noticed for several years and keep avoiding them because that's what we are, maybe we should have political issues. Because what to say, I don't know, is that we had solutions where, say, the former prime minister, he had a time limit in which you could be in conflict of interest. If you are 15 days - there is no conflict of interest, if you are 16 - then you are. So I can't do it, I mean. You don't have a deadline. Well, in conflict, you are or you're not, I guess. Let's get this over with. Here, I think, with the great effort of the SDP to offer the Law of 3 articles that practically eliminate each other and practically this whole story leads to absurdity, I'm sure on Friday this won't go away since Mr. Bauk said it was wrong and it should be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83004	I thank my colleague, Boric. Replications. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no better analyst in the SDP than you. I come to the conclusion that you were certainly not admitted to the SDP on Rab, so at one point you are so against us, and at another point, look at the fiercest SDPs don't know the dates when the SDP presidency session was held, let alone what counterpart Hajdash said. But you follow it all, the dates, when someone met, who had what, who talked about it, it's so much in love with the SDP that I just can't follow it anymore. You're saying we forgot to add one article to include the deputy Commissioner. So you've forgotten to add an entire article on conflict interest in lex Agrokor. And you know why you forgot? You didn't forget because you didn't even write it. It was written to you by the Borg group so that, without the legal obligation of conflict of interest, it could draw money out. And you don't have a problem with that. All right, if that makes you happy, fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83006	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Answer, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83007	Since this was an extra replica, it might best not say anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83008	I didn't hear you. What did you say she was? No, no. It's three. Don't worry, we'll take care of it, but thank you for your support. ... Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83009	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you said that we deliberately put this in session of the Parliament, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest so that we could open the whole story about Agrokor. So what were you waiting for? For four months, this law has been waiting for the President of the Parliament to put him on the agenda of the session. You haven't done that, you could have handled this long ago, you haven't, and we've used our rights now. But there's God, and the timing's kind of hit. Because when we wrote the Law, when the Commissioner was Mr Ramljak, we wanted to prevent any conflict of interest and that's why we wrote it. And today, we see, four months later, that we had cause for concern and today this law actually makes sense. In this chronology of events, you said that the SDP accused you of protecting Todorovic. No, we didn't accuse you of protecting Todorovic, we accused you of creating him, you HDZ. Second, then you said we said someone was gonna make that money. Yes, we warned that the law could be misused and that in the end, Todorovic's debts could be paid by citizens. If there's a religious suit against the state, that's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83010	Thank you, thank you. I have tolerance for ladies, but the Rules of Procedure have been made for both male and female. ... Answer, fellow Boric. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83011	Thank you very much. I didn't say I was what you said. I said that this morning, my colleague Bauk said that this law would take advantage of the conflict of interest to speak of Agrokor. I just repeated his words. And that... You said this morning on the show. [[You can't hear it.]] And you were, even a part of you was against the Rules of Procedure, and here, it allowed you to discuss almost all of your important points and not have any objections at all. When you led this House, I won't even speak. When it was our turn, i.e. We haven't been able to get in line at all. Well, I'm looking at the minister of one the other day, so all the SDP amendments he's accepted here. I'm looking at us in four years, no amendments, no debates, and that was democracy your way, and I respect that. But people didn't want it anymore, no matter how much you paid that consultant to lead you to defeat, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83012	I thank my colleague, Boric. Comrade Bauk, colleague Djujic and colleague Peđa Grbin, I would ask you nicely not to engage colleagues... Please, colleague Bauk, don't force me into these rigorous measures because I'm not exactly a supporter of it. [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you. We're moving on to the next line. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83013	Comrade Boric, perhaps his colleague Glasovic is right when he talks about this right-wing, when you know all the dates. But, buddy, here, I'll tell you one more thing. When we exhaust the agenda this week, do you know how many government proposals we're going to have left on the agenda? If I'm not wrong, two. From the dots very much. It says how much the government does. If what the opposition is suggesting, because unlike you, we're proposing something colleague. We support what we think the government is doing well. We support all the proposals we think are going towards better legal solutions. Then one of your fellow men, when we want to adopt his proposal, I don't know why. And you refuse everything because they come from opposition. They're writing laws in restaurants, you're scratched by conflict of interest. You want us to secure the peace of Agrokor, to get the money out of him in peace, that's what you want, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83014	I would like to thank my colleague Hajdukovic, my colleague Boric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83015	My colleague Hajdukovic is nothing exactly what you said. As far as writing is concerned, it's clear, I don't know, who wrote to you and where the pre-price settlement law was written, when they put them in some halls, there, in the cafe, where they wrote it. So I mean it and then you fixed it by regulation, 50 articles fix, 45 others. It's a waist. Don't, I mean. As for all of your other observations, I mean, maybe there's no need to say yes to that, because you've shown, at least in four years, at least as far as working in the Assembly is concerned, how you've been experiencing the opposition, which wasn't at all the way we have today. We've been polite, we've done more or less, what we could have criticised, here and there we'd have gone out, but this, this is what you yourself announced two years ago that you'd probably be opening up some kind of hell in the House, so if you're enjoying it, enjoy it, it's not exactly something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83016	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83017	Dear fellow Boric, listening carefully to your discussion through my mind is a winged one, the worse, the better. It was a winged party of its time, which wanted to force itself across Europe, they did, wherever they did, what was happening in Croatia during Yugoslavia. So, all of this, all of today's debate, all of these media attacks, all this leads to is that it's in someone's interest, that in Croatia it's worse and that they're better off and that they try to come to power. No one cares about 20,000 people who stayed to work in Agrokor, no one cares what the Peles Bridge is going to be built. No one cares what their idea of monetizing the highway failed with one move by the minister, who they wanted to replace. No one cares what the Chisky Bridge finally connects today. So, this government has made so many positive shifts in these years and a half, that it has not made the previous government of Milanovic, especially in their full four years. Okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83018	I thank my colleague, Klaric, for his response to Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83019	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, they have a good president, but they do to him hell in that party and every day someone comes out to him and they do wonders there, simply, they themselves don't know what they want from all these situations, except they've made a request, today, without any signature, to disband the Parliament. It is now a matter of the agenda and public debates need to be conducted. So much for how seriously to approach some subjects, and especially to bring down a government or to go to elections, to submit a request without any signature, so now you're thinking what you want me to do. And as far as the party is concerned, it might have been awkward for the president of the SDP that he wanted to put someone in jail from the press. I think that's where we all agree, that these things in public space shouldn't be allowed, even though the subject is also called Lex Agrokor or Agrokor itself, the fact is that those times must have passed long ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83020	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, the next replica, dear colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83021	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, I listened carefully to you and you said in the first sentence that no one today discusses the law which is the subject, or, the amendment of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, it was the first sentence, then 9.5 minutes of discussion, like everyone else, about everything, just not that, and finally, that the bill is bad. Without wanting to get into the debate, the SDP, the HDZ, who was better, who was worse, who had any president, who did anything. I am interested in the following thing, which is your position in relation to the extraordinary commissioner, whether he should be a person, who is on the list of persons, to whom the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Because from the debate, I couldn't figure it out until the end, that is, in the end, you said the proposal was bad, but it needs to be resolved systematically. I mean, you expect the secretary of state to solve it systematically, so I'm curious, here's your personal attitude, in relation to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83022	I thank my colleagues, Mr. Taritash, the answer, my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83023	Thank you very much, Mrs. Taritash, in the way you suggested, i.e. The SDP club suggested, and Mr. Bauk himself said he wasn't good and he wasn't complete, so I don't support him. And I also told the secretary of state, and since the government, I think, has ordered that it's time for the conflict of interest law to simply modernise, upgrade, on the basis of the experiences we have, so that we open a public debate first, and then a broad debate here in the Parliament, and then we change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83024	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, the next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83025	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, from your presentation I have seen your smile especially to the surprise of what is happening. Of course, today, if we listen to the debate, the debate is only in order against, it is not to be resolved. If anyone has solved anything, then this government has been resolved, and this government has brought down everything they've said, they've missed the government by now, and we know that 2014 was the hardest since 2010-2015, where Agrokor and he's been in debt and he's questioned this situation that he is... banks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as my colleagues on the left hand side are concerned, I'm not surprised at them, they've never dealt with anything but a little politics, they're young people, they'll realize they don't really know how business works, what business is, what it is, what it's a loan, what it's a problem. For them, it's just populism, but it's one thing about the real thing, and I think this law that's been passed so far has been quite helpful to Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83026	I thank my colleague Misic, I would ask you to use a little more appropriate terms yourself. Answer, dear fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83027	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Misic, here are just a dozen topics left in the way Mr Plenkovic said recently, as a cabbage transition to this government's legacy, so go ahead and work it out. We recently heard a story that we had a law when we talked about protected tenements, we did everything right but we put it in a drawer, so it was with a lot of other things. Shipyards, we solved it in 2012, it's the only topic we believed was solved, here in 2017 nothing was solved, nothing was solved in 2018, nothing was solved. Here, take care of it. It was then interpreted as the only success, not solved. And where are the stories about the Peljesk Bridge, about safety, about the purchase of planes, about health reform, pension reform, decentralisation, about the completed people, and how to deal with it. And we were in power and we had a great time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83028	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We've got one breach from the Rules of Procedure, colleague Hajdukovic. I'm sorry I haven't seen it before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I accept your apology. The article 238 was injured, namely, by my colleague Misic in his speech, disdaining other MPs. I'd invite him to make an effort and read about his colleagues what they were doing and where, but I'll accept that you've already warned him, so I think you've fulfilled the role of chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83030	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic, as you yourself have said, I told my colleague Misic, so I appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues to adjust the dictionary in this House of Higher Education in their discussions. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83031	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I expected that when a revised financial report appeared that we had received a document that would be the basis for debates and political matches, the team more than it is, and as far as this is concerned by figures, etc., however, there is something that is undeniable there, and that is when the stampede of borrowing started, so 2012, 2013, 2014. On the one hand, he jumped traffic to exchanges with factoring companies, on the other, loans from the Russian bank, but very interestingly that loan did not come here to Zagreb but came to the Netherlands and then from the Netherlands to Zagreb. So you can see exactly the period during which the financial problems of Agrokor have arisen, but we do not want to talk about it. This is precisely seen from the revised financial report, but it is easier to politicise than to talk about facts, because when you talk about facts, then you have to propose a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83032	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. The answer of my colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83033	Comrade Shuker, perhaps there's the best line Mr. Maras, our fellow representative, might say, congratulations on that acquisition, it's the best economic move in the region.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83034	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83035	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I think we've heard everything today, and it was expected that a little bit of the topic would spread from what was scheduled. I already said today in the replica and something in front of the club and on the Justice Committee itself, that we are not in principle and I am not against a single amount of transparency that was obviously missing, and we did condemn it and throw away the unnecessary stain then and now they're still going through the same thing. However, what I have asked for is a number of questions, and I believe that we have missed and addressed the wrong law here, because the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests in Article 1 states that there is a conflict between private and public interest in the conduct of public duties, bonds of conduct to the provisions of this law, etc., means everything that goes on. The first thing is public duty, the purpose of this law is to prevent conflicts of interest of private and public interest. Now, we're saying that the extraordinary commissioners, I like to think that this applies in general, but here all the time I've been listening to Agrokor, Agrokor, that this applies to the other nine system companies and pro futuro, but we know why this was done and it's just recognized and okay. But when we do legislation, we have to think about the implications of the law for all future possibilities and events. And then we say that we give him all the obligations, when we talk about future commissioners, and nothing right, is he entitled to six plus six, has no right as a state official, has no right as a local official, has no right as state officials who are considered to be members of the administration of state firms, etc., but he has no rights or rights arising from the Labour Act, so you want from... you want from the bankruptcy procedure. You know what bankruptcy managers are and they receive rewards so he's not an employee. And now, on that very fact, it's a little questionable. When we talked about these fees, so no one here smart certainly thinks that one of them should have a fee of six plus six, and I know it wasn't your instinct that someone would charge private society, and that's the same problem for about three, four million kunas as it would cost to pay them wages. Also, as such, he cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board, nor in any way of these related companies themselves, according to article 14. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. However, this membership, such as in some other laws, is arranged so that the exceptions, here in lex Agrokor, are not indicated either that he is an official, nor that he as such may be a member, so they could not be defacto in their daughters' companies, nor the chairman of the Supervisory Board, nor anything else. Also, what am I saying why? Because I believe that maybe the change in the adoption itself was meant to take this into account or perhaps already in the changes today and some of the new future Lex Agrocore or the same System Company Act I see these things change, but in a way that we will not limit privates, creditors, future owners in their rights stemming from the movement, i.e. freedom of market and capital that the state does not limit them further, because we have asked what if the Committee of Believers makes a decision and says I want that, says the Commissioner, but then I would be in some conflict of interest. So what's he doing now? That he resigns because he can't, so someone else is wanted, so the court, so I mean, these things are too serious. So those obligations prescribed here, the duration of the obligations laid down in this law in Article 20 after the termination of the duty that he could not conclude a contract with a single company that was related to that company, was said by his colleague Batinic earlier on behalf of the club, nor who worked, nor who are owned. So if someone came from that company for the Commissioner, as an employee who was before and years ago, I don't know, anyway, or we actually disqualified him, now that man can't even go back there anymore, I guess. So there's a lot of questions, what's crucial is that I think it's necessary to go further in detail to arrange for everything you don't give God future activities, the law will stay on, hopefully this will be resolved and that's what the good law has passed. They say, here's a colleague of Bunjac's here, I wasn't here, but I listened to him, I didn't get to replicate, said HNS hypocritical, he was against the law, now he's defending the law. No, we defend jobs. We defend production, we defend suppliers in the way that's possible, we have the law we have, the easiest thing to say is I don't care if most of the public doesn't. I will never allow myself luxury, especially if we talk hypocrisy, here's my colleague Sincic here, so because you're not sure you're exempt from the vote on the Istanbul Convention, because you're not sure if there is, there's no ideology, we're not going to participate in it, but colleague Sincic is still going to be president of the Committee on Gender Equality, that's fine, that's fine, and I'm not going to be there to fight for that equality, but when there's something to say and vote here, now it's not perhaps ideological, it's not, so we will or we won't, and then we'll say now these hypocrites out of HNS are now they for the law. No, we said then, we might have a better solution to change, get into bankruptcy law, change it, introduce the oldest debt institute there. The rulings then went with this solution, MOST and HDZ. We even gave amendments, if the amendments had been accepted, would have supported that law, why? Because they thought it was really necessary to do something. Without that, we wouldn't have saved jobs, so I think it's clear to everyone that something had to be done. Whoever says this could have been done under the existing pre-war, bankruptcy law is a total analphabeta, whether it's bad or I don't know, there's no third. So either he's lying or he doesn't know. So it couldn't be done because it's not just a company that deals with trade, so it's going to give suppliers goods to the merger, and it's going to be charged when sold under bankruptcy law you have obligations in 60 days to pay your dues. Here we have to, we have this one, we have the law that we have, and we have to get him to the end, and we have to do it for every single worker that he is. And I think that never enough transparency, but we have to respect what it means in the form of the whole process, so I think that this might be better addressed through the Law on Extraordinary Administrations than by preventing conflicts of interest, because in nature it speaks between private and public. What the government proposed to someone, it doesn't change the situation that this company becomes a public interest in terms of the law, is for all of us, it's in the interest of what it will be, but it's not a company that is financed by taxpayers' money that we pay from the budget or any of the other units of local self-government. So that's what they say to the botto line, so the most important thing. Yeah, once again, let's find a situation to avoid this kind of thing because at speed it was brought like this, what motives were when the law was passed, did it think, did they, did they have greater goals, no, we can only trust those who say that when it was done. And who knew everything about the mailing list, who knew from whom he got the mail, where it was being checked, where the ministry, who wrote, didn't write, we don't know, we didn't participate, but we know what we have and we know what's ahead of us, and we know what has to be our goal, and in that sense we have to look at and do parts. So, with all due respect to this intention, we think that through this law, it cannot be realized that this law would fall in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83036	I would like to thank my colleagues, Curaju, for this debate. We have a replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83037	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Curaj, you first mentioned this part of gender equality, so here you are, you're the government, you have the majority, you replace me. I challenge you, initiate the initiative, replace me if you think I'm not doing my job well. I said my position on the Istanbul Convention, it shouldn't have been ideological or I see ideology there, but it's reduced to ideology. The same ones who, therefore, when the concepts introduced in 2008 were not cricketed, were now running all kinds of stories. But if I didn't go that way, I'd just say about the bankruptcy law, you were given proposals at the time of the election of Lex Agrokor to change the bankruptcy law into several segments. To pay off small suppliers first, to install a few more tools. You didn't want to hear it. You went your way, now we see why. Because that's what Borg wanted, said and asked for. If it were to go through the bankruptcy law, or first through the pre-demand settlement that is in it, it would not be the Republic of Croatia, but would be a matter of commercial legislation. And now we've exhibited ourselves in many unnecessary places. And this corruption will further undermine the entire settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83038	I thank my colleague Sincic. Answer, Comrade Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83039	Thank you. I'm not thinking of starting any shift. Namely, that's what you feel or not and that's what goes on to you. You're talking here now, you didn't want to. We were against it at the end of that law. We just thought it might be best to go through the bankruptcy law, what you said. But the suggestion to go through with this, okay, and we accepted that because something has to be done. Here's the amendment. What did we want with the amendments? First of all equalize suppliers along with roll-up creditors. Yes, and those in greater than 50m euros which really, those in greater scope can participate who gives the goods, so that they can be in the order of collection. Here, let's say that one amendment was ours that then went from six to six of us teaching them. But we have what we have and we don't have to watch it now, either better one way or another. Now, fortunately, this turns out to be good, that it can always be better, the later mind is always the best, so I agree. I agree. And let's look into the future at all those mistakes to correct, but let's do this and finish this job for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83040	I thank my colleagues for the answer. I'm setting a break by 7:30. It's 7:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.30 HOURS]] Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Maybe we shouldn't have had a break a little bit of us here, but good doesn't matter. I'll be really short because a lot of things have been said today, but I've been listening to a few colleagues all day in my debate, my colleagues from HDZ, and I have to say at the beginning of my debate that I've never been through a wing like some of my colleagues, but I've been through a quote from a film that I'm going to modify a little bit, so I would mention it to describe this situation, and it reads to you this way: "The self of interest, that vicious pain and destruction of HDZ. The government's rocking like a small ship on a troubled ocean, comrades have come to a time of stalemate. In the prison, it'll go like in a chair once it's gone." And why is that all associated with me now? Because I, as well as the entire Croatian public, have been following the events in Agrokor from the very beginning for the past year. The SDP is here all the time credible and all the time talking, pointing to problems, pointing to the shortcomings that we are not satisfied with and about the process of taking lex Agrokor around all the activities that have been going on, but what is briefly said is a lot more to be said, but in short, what has marked this whole process in lex Agrokor? It's intransparency and it's a conflict of interest. So from the very beginning, we can't find out for months who wrote Lex Agrokor. These questions are raised, now the former Deputy Prime Minister is always saying it doesn't matter the ministry, my associates, I avoid the answer that the first time on the Committee on Economy about three months ago would light that she was the author of Lex Agrokor and who she consulted. Here's specifically, I asked her to answer me if she contacted both Mr Ramljak and Mr. Matic from Texo Management, then she said for the first time that I asked her on that board what her relationship with Šavoric was, my relationship with Šavoric was nothing to see anything else today. The same thing has happened in the past days, so through this whole non-transparentity story and in order to leak through the media some information about who wrote it, so when the affair was blown up, we found out that 500 million kunas were pulled out, or that this team around Ramljak and Martina Dalic got their share of the cake, then after a few days of media public pressure and certain people in HDZ like Gordan Jandrokovic began to speak, but these things are not okay, this is not good, HDZ will not be anyone's hostage, HDZ has put its reputation on the stake of the process in Agrokor. So now for the last three days we've been watching Martin Dalic talking, I'm not going to resign I didn't do anything wrong, so then Gordan Jandrokovic, our president, our president, so there's no mistake in saying, says I don't like those things there, it's not the team I'd like to participate with and be with, and then we have Martina Dalic gone, we have everything that's happened and we have today's debate. And in today's debate, colleagues from HDZ today explain to us how it's all ok, that it's not public money, that it's private money, that there's no conflict of interest, that there's jobs saved, that the Croatian economy is being saved, or that the policy or those words of Mrs Dalic, the goal justifies the means and we've been listening to it all day in this debate. It means to undermine everything that's been going on for the past year, who hasn't heard what Gordan Jandrokovic said five days ago, that he smells it, too. And when he smells, then at least it should be a signal to you for it's time to change sides if you think otherwise. Now it is not clear to me that colleagues from HDZ do not see what the entire Croatian public sees, as all citizens see. And they see it's not normal for some group to be informal in some kind of restaurants in the basements, etc. He writes a law on which they all benefit materially later. And it doesn't matter whether it's private money or it's public money and it doesn't matter if the court appointed a commissioner, proposed by the government, resolved by the government, can only be named on the government's proposal, but the appointment of that commissioner has enabled the law they wrote, and you gentlemen voted, you raised your hand for it. And there's the involvement of both the state and this government and all that. It is not disputed that jobs were to be saved, it is not disputed that the Croatian economy had to be saved, that intervention was to be intervened. I think all the time that the state had to intervene in the case of Agrokor, but it was supposed to be public, it should have been transparent from the start to be available to everyone all the information and should have installed all the protective mechanisms in writing the law, not to make someone rich. And I can't accept the fact that someone justifies it by saying it's private money and it's so normal and it costs 500 million, if we were out there it would cost a billion and a half. Well, gentlemen of the HDZ, it's not normal for me, and it's not normal for most Croatian citizens, and that's why we're in the middle of this affair and everything that's happened with the counselors and we've proposed this bill that we at least try to fix things a little bit. We heard today and through the debate that the Ministry of Administration is preparing a law on the trail of this, so I don't see why that's your problem, why your problem is to support our law. We also heard some suggestions here from colleagues, from fellow Shuker, how to fix it, how to fix this means to install a deputy commissioner in this law, and that's a good proposal. That's why we had today's debate, debate, and it serves to fix the law and make good suggestions, and we're going to accept it. Now that we accept your proposal, I expect you to uphold this law. ... Okay, okay, we'll see, we'll see in two days. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Anyway, this whole process is contaminated by conflict of interest, intransparency, and that's not good. Unfortunately, conflict of interest is what marks HDZ as a party whenever it is in power, and while it was in power at the time of Sanader and while it was in privatisation in '90. And today, when I even believed a little bit, I believed at the beginning a year and a half ago when Andrej Plenkovic was presented to us as the saviour of HDZ, the European President who now, will no longer have anything to do with that old HDZ, with Karamark, Sanader, our predecessors, and so he started to run a new modern HDZ, open, acknowledges human rights, do not choke on freedoms, etc. And in fact today, in Croatian society, everything that they do not support is happening to us. We have a violation of human rights, human freedoms, here outside telling us that we are in trouble, we have the biggest corruption affair that we are investigating right now, and the DORH, meaning in the last 20 years, this affair of advisers and the situation of the writing of Agrokor and now I don't know, listening to today's debate, maybe I'm mistaken, maybe most Croatian citizens are mistaken, maybe 75% of people who don't support the work of the Government have no idea, maybe they don't know that it's the price of saving jobs and Croatian economies, but I still think that they have a conflict of interest in me, because when you come to the HDZ this month, and I've read that you're working on a new statute and a new programme, here I'm giving you a proposal to install a provision that in the new Statute that there's no conflict of interest in the HDZ and that when you come to the public duty that you're no longer pursuing of interest, because only when you're in your statute you're going to be able to do so much. Here, thank you very much. So in the interest of Croatian citizens try this proposal to accept and put it into your statute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83043	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. We have one replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83044	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague, in your discussion, you said that we are acting on principle to justify the means. So look when it comes to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, it is your party when it was in power, changing one provision three times, and that is a provision on whether members of the Board, whether they will be elected by certain criteria and in a public competition, so you had little criterion that they will, so little that they won't, depending on how you needed it. That shows how you managed and by what principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83045	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83046	My dear colleague, I can only see that you are guided by the principles that you do not need any competitions, not at all. At least there's no dilemma, we sometimes have, maybe it's better, maybe it's not better, you don't have a dilemma. You name everything without a contest. When you take power, when you take it, then from the cleaning lady, from the porter, I don't know from the porters at any public firm to the management president, everything, it flies in everywhere. You've been passed by by the government because of the conflict of interest of the Prime Minister. Did you forget fimi media? No, I don't think so. Now this is happening to you, and whenever a man thinks he can't go up there, you surprise us. And just don't talk about conflict of interest and changes to these laws, here's what your government is doing now in public companies, public institutions all over Croatia, people flying through windows and having connections with SDP and other parties and who don't, if it's not ours, can't, just yours and let's HNS, they've survived the last year, but we've seen why.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83047	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today we've been discussing Agrokor all day, both conflict of interest and transparency. I think when it comes to the public interest that transparency must always be and what kind of hybrid are we talking about here? In fact, the institution of an extraordinary commissioner is something that is absolutely new in Croatian legislation, a new institute and what a hybrid I think tells you enough that this same extraordinary commissioner, which was not appointed by the Government, has been appointed by the court, although at the government's proposal, regularly met in the government, and you are careful not with the members of the government, not with those responsible for the implementation of the settlement, or for the functioning of lex Agrokor, but also with some parliamentary representatives, meets with some people who are neither parliamentary representatives, nor state officials who are some coalition partners. So why doesn't this Peruvian come before this House or to the Committee on Economy and report here? Because that's where the chosen people are, there's the MPs. Until now, he was once, Mr. Ramljak once, Mrs. Dalic twice, there was that one of your members liked to say alternative facts, not to say that he lied directly to us, and now you're saying this law is nothing important, conflict of interest please come on, so it's not about public money, not gentlemen. It's about public interest, it's about thousands of jobs, it's about human destiny, if that's what we're gonna do. It's about big money anyway. It's not true that we didn't propose solutions, we did, we always suggested as opposition and as power, that's what you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ missed when you were an opposition, then you were absolutely against everything because you were in opposition. From the D.A.'s report to the legal proposals, against absolutely everything. I don't remember, I guess on the fingers of one hand I can count how many legal acts you've supported. Why? Only because they propose them by ruling. And we're not ashamed to support what we think is right. We want to propose that legal solutions be better, so we also propose this law. So again when we talk about the hybrid institution, watch this, I have news from the media that Commissioner Perusko was writing to the IRS that he'll send the balance sheet and the final bill when he's ready, when he's ready. Well, is that what it says in the so-called. Lex Agrokor, colleagues and colleagues, I assume Agrokor is subject to other rules? As far as I know, the end of the 4th month is the deadline for the final accounts. And he'll send, keep an eye on the final bill when he's ready. Well, I guess when they're setting up the balance sheet, I guess when he's frisking financial reports, because apparently there are people in Agrokor who have a lot of experience with it. And why is that? To cover up the money sucking again and so forth. Where are our laws, colleagues and colleagues written? Unfortunately, at low-profile restaurants, in obstructive societies with people who later benefit directly from the same laws to be written. Well, it's a terrible message that a member of the government, HDZ and no more than the vice president of the government sends to the Croatian public, sends to young people who lose faith in this country that institutions are not worth a damn, especially when HDZ is in power. They're even kidding, colleagues and colleagues and they're called the Borg Group. They'll assimilate everything, they say, "Leave the hope of you coming in here." I then like to believe that we are in opposition to the United Federation of Planets that will conflict with this powerful Borg and which together with its allies, in this case, free media in the Republic of Croatia will jump into that sablance, that snake called conflict of interest and corruption, which is so wrapped around HDZ that it is impossible to separate them, colleagues and colleagues more. They said some colleagues here in the debate before this law opened their hips too much to compromise the settlement, I really don't see how. And I really don't see what it would take for the believers to ask an extraordinary manager so radically that he makes some move or one that would put him in conflict of interest, unless it's common writing of law, sharing privileged information and everything else we've witnessed in the media so far. My colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Extraordinary Management in Commercial Companies of Systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, we have opened our hips wide. Our hips, when I say ours, I think the state is wide open. Why? Because the biggest culprit for the situation in Agrokor, in your words, now turns out to be a saint versus what you're doing. Which is what the Deputy Prime Minister and a group are doing around her. And what's worse, colleagues and colleagues, the Prime Minister knew all that. Which is confirmed in e-mails, so his last statement in Sofia, which he made on this subject, says: I wasn't addressed to everything. Well, it's a confession to me that he knew exactly what was going on. It may not be the prime minister's style to eat at low-profile restaurants in Zagreb, but he knew where our laws were being made. If you consider, colleagues and colleagues as I said, our citizens who lose faith in the institutions of this country, in young people who leave because they are more disgusted to see this situation, then we certainly send them an extremely, extremely bad message. Word here is we need to keep our mouths shut to make the deal go away. No, I'm saying that you want us to keep quiet so that different lobbys and stakeholders gathered around HDZ can suck enough money out of Agrokor, so maybe there's something left to settle. There will be nothing left, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately in this case I am not an optimist and in the end we will probably not give God, but probably end up in bankruptcy or Agrokor will end up in bankruptcy and we could have done it immediately. So you don't get me wrong, my club and I have proposed another solution, which is that the state be a mediator, not that the state rules people out of their private property. You keep talking about private property. In capitalism, private property is sacred, so if it's private property, then I don't know what the state is supposed to do except be a mediator. A mediator anyway. But this law directly appoints an extraordinary commissioner who appoints a court, though, but again on a proposal from the Government and the Government is the only authorising officer, we have opened our hips wide by several fronts, and the fact that you have an isolated opinion of the Constitutional Court on this issue tells you enough. I believe Mr. Todorovic will not stop, that his suit will continue to go to international judicial institutions. Therefore, the epilogue is insecure in any case. At the thematic meeting of the Committee on Economy, I then asked myself more rhetorically, for of course I received no answer, and what would happen to colleagues and colleagues that the Constitutional Court had declared so-called. Lex Agrokor unconstitutional? Then where would they be? Unfortunately, probably where we'll end up anyway. Therefore, to say that the debate on Agrokor, on the Commissioner and the way it works is not of public interest, is in no way agreeable. She's very much of a public interest and if we didn't have free media, we probably wouldn't know anything about this. A few months ago, in the seat where Mr. Secretary of State was sitting, the Deputy Prime Minister was sitting, and she smiled very, very pleasantly at everything we said about her, about the way she worked, and in the end it all turned out to be true. That's why, precisely because of these workers in Agrokor, precisely because of this property private, because of this particular private money, the religious one, but the state in unpaid taxes, this law is crucial and this debate is crucial in order to make this process as transparent as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83049	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've been discussing this proposal for several hours now, and the conclusion is unequivocal. In that conclusion, it comes from the debate of HDZ colleagues that such a law is necessary. Of course, the problem is whether our law will be passed on Friday, probably not, but the secretary of state listens and follows closely, I hope that it will speed up the creation of a new Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and will install into it everything the SDP has proposed. In this way it will also help HDZ because HDZ is a party in which I have a conflict of interest is constant. After Sanader's Fimi Media, Karamark's Consulate, we got another epic partner effort by the Troika Plenkovic-Dalić-Ramljak, in HDZ there is a way. Therefore, if anyone needs this law, they need HDZ to know how to behave so that they are not in conflict of interest. So we can talk about Agrokor for hours, and Agrokor is unfortunately a school example that is likely to be studied in colleges, school examples and scavengers in phase 3. In the first phase, it was the Todoric family that had been scavenging, in the second phase were Ramljak's vulture funds and then in the final phase Dalić & Ramljak Borg partners who took the opportunity to fill their pockets on the account of Agrokor. Thus, we see that there is a complete misunderstanding in our society, which is a conflict of interest. Today, on several occasions and from the HDZ ranks, we have heard that they do not really understand what conflict of interest is because it is not what they say about public money, but there is always a conflict of interest when a state official uses his powers, his position, his information to suit himself or his close partners and friends, which Mrs. Dalic, with the knowledge of Andrej Plenkovic, makes him co-responsible, and makes him. Therefore, it is a clear conflict of interest and this conflict of interest is subject to responsibility. Whether this conflict of interest stems from corruption because not every conflict of the interest of corruption, but is the lobby of corruption, the DORH and USKOK will determine, but we are talking about political responsibility here. The political responsibility is great, Dalic has already paid for it, but it is not enough. It's not enough for the simple reason that Andrej Plenkovic saw it all, heard it and knew it. And if he didn't see it, he didn't hear it and he didn't know it, then he's not worthy to be Croatian Prime Minister. After all, here is the Indexa.hr survey in a few hours, 26 000 citizens gave their opinion, 82% of them say that Andrej Plenkovic must leave, so at the end of this debate, I invite him to go and leave his place to someone who will see, hear and know what is going on in the field of his responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83051	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. We have a final word from a esteemed colleague named Peje Grbin on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83052	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. Let me first answer some specific questions at the end of this debate and then sum up what is said and what I think is important not only to this law but to the phenomenon, with the problem we discussed today. Through a debate from the Secretary of State and beyond, we were honored that this law was retroactive. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, it is, and that was an intensity. Without retroactiveness, he does not make sense because it cannot be fixed by a mistake that has been incorporated into the Law on Extraordinary Administration, which was warned by a colleague named Miladin, quite accidentally by a professor of commercial law and the rights of companies at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb. A man who knows something about the subject. I had the opportunity to listen to the Prime Minister speak in an interview that was broadcast recently by Nova TV and where he spoke, yes, we had different experts, we had different advices, so we couldn't listen to everything. Yeah, you didn't listen to everything, you only listened to those who went after intransparency and who suggested what was right for you. And just for that not that retroactiveness is the problem of this law, it is necessary that it gets its purpose and that it meets its goal. Furthermore, you honor us that we did not provide for a deputy in the bill. But the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in February when we proposed this law, the deputy special commissioner was gone. The Deputy Commissioner was first appointed after Mr Ramljak was released on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, except for the proposal, the only authorising officer. Only after that, after the hasty pursuit, do you remember that, practically every stone in Zagreb turned to find someone who would accept the position of an extraordinary commissioner, only then did the extraordinary commissioner get both the deputy and in a specific case the deputy. But if that's the problem, we accept criticism and we'll make an amendment and then we can all together, if that's the problem, on Friday and adopt it. If it's a technical problem, it's the easiest thing to do, and we accept criticism, and that's why we're correcting something that you wouldn't call a mistake or a failure, but we accept that. Let's move on. Dear HNS colleagues, they were most disturbed by the status of officials. So how are we going to attack these poor officials now, how are we going to let that poor extraordinary commissioner who makes $90 000 a year attack, how are we going to make it impossible for him if we accept this law to be the director of a company a year after his term as an extraordinary commissioner ceases? I'll tell you the truth, I don't care too much because if we don't take care of, say, the CEO of HEP, then why should we take care of an extraordinary commissioner in Agrokor? But respected colleagues and colleagues, if we see Mr. Ramljak doing his job, I'm not afraid for a minute at all that he'll be able to manage and charge all those services that he has among other things because he's not within the reach of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and could seek. That's no problem, but as such you present it, so we'll line up to answer that. The official is only in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interests and not other regulations, just as state officials are not mayors or directors, etc. But let's go now and talk about sucus. I mentioned the interview given by the Prime Minister, I am glad that I looked at it because now it is clear to him what has been clear for days or months and even a year to the entire Croatian public, which is that this procedure has not been conducted transparently. But I'm sorry to have to say that, Mr. Plenkovic's statement comes too late. It comes now that everything is practically brought to an end, it comes now that all the actions that are controversial in this process have already been carried out. And in this case I can't say better than never because this shows what we said, Mr. Plenkovic knew, and now he's just washing himself. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, today's debate and what you've been saying has shown that this intransparency spoken of by the Prime Minister is not a failure. Your transparency doesn't suit you, you don't want transparency because if you wanted to support it, you would support this law. You're talking about today that the procedure was non-transparent only because you were caught with your fingers in a jam. If these e-mails hadn't been published, the Prime Minister would never have talked about a non-transparent procedure, representatives of the ruling coalition wouldn't have talked about how the wheel doesn't fit, and we wouldn't have lost the car because of one wheel, there wouldn't have been all those criticisms that we heard on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, there wouldn't have been that comment from the honourable President of the Parliament that he liked what he read because you didn't have a problem with what wasn't under the rules and what wasn't done under the law. Your problem is that it's been discovered, yes, that's all. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority, you do not respond to transparency, you agree to meetings by restaurants and make arrangements according to them. It is a modus operandi, it is not the first time, it is not the first time and Croatia has already had immense damage to it, it will still have it now because it does not worry that those who will be damaged in this extraordinary administration procedure will start proceedings against the state. They will, unfortunately they will, and they will not care whether these laws are constitutional or not. Do you think the funds from the example of the United States will use the mechanisms available and seek protection through the Croatian judiciary? He won't. They'll use the contracts we made 20 years ago and before the arbitration courts that take care of only and the only investment right to ask for the satisfaction of the money. These procedures will generate financial expenditure for the Republic of Croatia as soon as they are conducted because we know how much arbitration costs in investment disputes, we are talking about millions. Now as I said, intransparency suits you in it you manage. And the Borg group rarely saw the image of non-transparency, the group came up with a law, came up with an idea, then prepared the law, and after the law was prepared and after the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament, the law was implemented. One of the foundations of each constitutional and democratic state is the government's trinity. The government's trodiocy, which means that the government is divided into court, legislative and executive. What did the Borg group do in this case? It was the whole procedure as much as it could exempt from the jurisdiction of the courts, which we pointed to, and I personally pointed out, and I was one of the first to intervene as soon as the first draft, a shameful draft of what was then a lex Šavoric, and later became a lex Agrokor. We have succeeded in correcting the pressure, for example, the pressure we have made as far as workers' rights are concerned. In the first proposal, workers' rights had no priority and workers had no right to initiate procedures to collect their claims, while those we ask for to be found to fall within the reach of the Law on Conflict of Interest received 75,000 kunas per month. We've been able to put pressure on some things to correct, but we're not all. And we have seen in separate opinions in the debate before the Constitutional Court and the decision that there is also a problem with the exemption of this law and the whole court's jurisdiction proceedings as one of the major problems of the law, so you have removed the court's power. The High Court of Commerce is here as hard as possible and I hope that there will be no slaves to a grammatical narrow interpretation of the law but will apply the law in terms of the entire Croatian legal order and above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which requires that such proceedings be subject to judicial protection. But it doesn't matter. The other two branches of government united the Borg group within themselves. She set herself up as a legislator, she set herself up as the creator of the law, and then became his enforcer. And make things worse for whose benefit it was executed? You and yourself. That's what the Borg group is responsible for. Mrs. Dalic is responsible for what she has given them, and because she has provided them with the conditions. And the fact that Ramljak and Mrs. Dalic went to a minimum of the minimum we're looking for in a situation like this. It's a minimum. So from that we start, that's a zero point. However, if we have someone who has come up with something and organized something, someone who has made it possible for them and provided the conditions that they can do it, in this case we have another person, and this is the person who knew it all, all of it tolerated and did nothing. And respected colleagues and colleagues, if we have a criminal offence here, and I am deeply convinced that we have not only a conflict of interest but a criminal liability, then that criminal responsibility does not fit the perpetrators. It also stands on those who have committed something called cover-up, and the one who did it is the one and only, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Because I can't quite believe that, for example, it was the finance minister who ordered Mrs. Dalic, I can't. And yet someone was above her, someone was her boss the whole time, someone she was answering and taking bills from. Someone who is, I'm going to quote it again because I need you to remember, that I want you all to know, you all hear, to be cut into your memory. Someone said to beg you to come to the government tomorrow regarding the topic we're working on. That someone was prime minister. And the prime minister can't justify not knowing what was going on. At the latest, if not before 27.4. it became known that the address for the application of the Agrokor claim was extraordinary.Government@savuric.com, 27.4. So at that moment when it became known, then those who knew who was doing the Law needed to pick up the phone, call an extraordinary commissioner and ask him for health. Ask if it's the only case of such a conflict of interest, so if it's not to insist on him to change it. They either didn't do it because they weren't careful, or they didn't because they didn't care or they didn't do it, and I don't want to believe it's true, I really don't want to believe it's true, because they had a part of what they were getting out of. And it didn't get out a little bit, not a little, uh, respected co-workers and colleagues. According to the information publicly published, there were around 8 million kunas in the account of Texo Management at the end of last year. I don't know how many of you have ever seen that amount on the pile, I doubt it's a lot. Comrade Shuker, of course, you are excluded because of your former job in the government. You've seen a lot more than that. ... On paper. [[You can't hear it.]] Well, this isn't just on paper, this is in a bank account, and that's the problem. And that's what we need to talk about. So the conflict of interest, as Honorable counterpart Jovanovic said, is not by itself corruption, but the lobby of corruption is. And so I ask you once again, and therefore I appeal to you, help us to prevent at least one small segment of this conflict of interest on Friday. Help us make Croatia a more transparent country on Friday, at least a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83053	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino, for this final word. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Mr Darko Nekic and the Proposers, or Mr Pedji Grbin, for these arguments. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83054	Final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 290th proposer is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the debate is closed. After the debate has been concluded, the applicant submitted an amendment, in accordance with Rule 199 of the Rules of Procedure, on the amendment submitted, most of the representatives present must agree. I am voting on the proposal that the SDP Representatives' Club may submit an amendment after the debate is concluded, please vote. I find that we have not accepted the proposal, that the SDP's Club of Representatives can submit an amendment after the debate has been concluded, because this proposal has not received the necessary majority of votes. 44 was for, one was abstention and 76 against. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83055	Dear Mr. President, please give me the honor of an article. 248. Let the Rules of Procedure explain why we are looking for a break on behalf of the Representatives' Club regarding this item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after listening to Wednesday's debate, we became fully aware that conflict of interest is no problem for you, but today we have become aware of one more thing, which is that it is not acceptable for you, nor for the Parliament to discuss conflict of interest, and that is scandalous. It is not known to me that in this session we have ever rejected the motion to discuss the amendment, which was submitted after the deadline. Not once. And why did you say no today? Because you don't want to discuss a conflict of interest, because you don't want to talk about the topics that made Prime Minister Plenkovic sweat yesterday while answering news issues. You have a conflict of interest. It was the same during Sanader, it was the same during Karamark, and it's the same for Plenkovic now. What you're doing is a shame. The fact that you do not want to sanction those who break the law is one thing, but that in the Croatian Parliament you do not want to discuss it in order not to open up to you unpleasant topics, it is quite another and it is completely scandalous. Dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday we saw what it looked like when the Prime Minister answered questions about a conflict of interest. We have also seen why it is important that conflicting interests be covered by all those factors in the state that in the name of the state have millions, but that is completely irrelevant to you. For this reason, I ask that the SDP's Club be given 20 minutes to agree whether we will participate in further debate and vote after such a decision or leave the assembly at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83056	Thank you, too. I'll grant Stanku 10 minutes, so we'll continue at 12 and 43 minutes. It's 12.33 o'clock. CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.43 HOURS Final draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which is not accepted by the Government or parliamentary working bodies [[The speaker was not saved.]] Therefore, I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which is not accepted by the Government or by the parliamentary working bodies. [[Intruder Bull: Can you repeat, we haven't heard at all.]] I find that with 12 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 74 against, the law did not receive the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83058	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a decision on amendments... Here's my colleague, Grmoy, I'm sorry, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83059	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, I would ask you to consult with the President of the Parliament and to postpone it for tomorrow for a normal time when it can be a public focus. I think this is what the whole public is interested in. We also have no opinion on this point, nor do we have the government's opinion, perhaps these committees could meet in the morning or a parent working body that would give some kind of opinion. I ask you to meet the Croatian public and Croatian citizens, if we are not hiding anything, if we all want the truth about Agrokor here, then there is no reason not to move it for some normal term, and not in 20.15 hours we begin the debate on the Investigation Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83060	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. The proposal for a decision to amend or set up investigative committees does not require meetings of any working body or opinion of the Government, and as regards the item of the agenda that is now on the agenda, you have received the agenda in time, it is provided. When the agenda was set, we couldn't know how much discussion would be on behalf of individual clubs and replicas, so I'm really sorry, but we're moving on with the work. Therefore, item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing an investigative committee to determine the circumstances of Agrokor's business concert, its current position on the market, the emergence of its business problems, and in particular its debts to suppliers and other creditors, the role of market regulators related to Agrokor's business activities and circumstances leading to the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards Agrokor, or a proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was found. Proposers are 36 representatives in the Croatian Parliament, based on Articles 5 and 6. The law on investigative committees. Please, the motionary's representative to explain the proposal. Mr. Nikola Grmoya, here's your colleague, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83061	Thank you, Vice President. Here I have once again to express my dissatisfaction that in this term we are discussing the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, although it would not be a problem for me even if we had some assurance that now ruling this commission would agree, so it doesn't matter at all what hour we discuss if we had this investigative committee. We've been speaking here about who's responsible, we're about for the truth to be fully revealed. So the decision to set up an investigative committee to determine the circumstances of Agrokor's business concert, its position on the market today, the emergence of its business problems, and in particular its debts to suppliers and other creditors, the role of market regulators related to Agrokor's business activities and the circumstances that led to the government's activities towards Agrokor, or a proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was found, whose change we are proposing today, was made at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 11 October 2017. The first thing that should change in this decision is the title itself, but yet we 36 MPs and MPs have decided to ignore this formal side of the story and to propose an intervention of the content and decisions and to come before you with a proposal to reduce the scope of the investigating commission's competence and a small correction on the establishment of an investigative commission. The reduction of jurisdiction concerns the part of the Commission's competence in which the work of the investigating committee has been overlapped with the investigation initiated and conducted by the State's attorney-in-law in order to avoid any doubt and debate on overlapping the work of the investigating committee, any judicial proceedings, is proposed to revise this decision, i.e. to revise it. to narrow down the scope of the investigation committee's research in the work relating to the field and research objectives, as well as to the issues to be investigated by the investigating committee, which relate to the quality of the financial reports. Corrections and structure of the investigating committee shall apply to Article 9(2). The law on investigative committees which has been prescribed that the investigative committee has a president, vice president and secretary appointed by the Assembly as members of the investigative committee. Since a decision on the establishment of a commission has been made and no vice-president has been appointed, it is also necessary to amend the decision in order to bring its text into line with the law. So the explanation for the proposed changes is quite simple, but given all the discussions we had about this, I will remind you only in the basic lines of some of the details that we discussed when we made a decision on the establishment of the commission, but during its work and after the investigation committee, or what its work has ceased. So let's start from the beginning, the SDP Representatives' Club proposed on 21 April 2017, so just a few weeks after lex Agrokora's decision to set up an investigative commission. You probably remember that in public debates on the establishment of a commission lasted for months. The formal debate in the Croatian Parliament was held and the debate was concluded and concluded on 12 July 2017, and the decision to set up a commission was made only on 17 October 2017. The commission would probably not have been established in October either if the SDP had not conditioned the choice of Constitutional Judges, by making a decision and setting up an investigative committee. From today's perspective and after all the information that has become available in the last few days, all events that have been delayed by decision-making and the commission's work begin to make a completely different sense. Namely, if the commission had been established and started working within a reasonable period of time, let's say within a month of the proposal being submitted, the commission could have completed its work before the power to investigate the state's attorney's office. It should give recognition to HDZ and its coalition partners that they have done everything in their power to prevent it and quite ironically, by calling for the government's trinity and the principle of legality. They must be recognized by obstruction, first establishment, and later by the work of the commission, they have shown true mastery in the mugging, tampering and fissure of each species. Still, it's government Shacks' school. Feel the hand of an old master out there in the background, no matter how much this generation is no match for him. So, formally, the main issue of the debate was whether or not the commission was allowed to be set up, since the state's attorneys were doing reconnaissances in Agrokor at the time. The opposition has emerged because of HDZ's stance, which apparently made it clear that the president of HDZ's Club of Representatives Branko Bačić's statement on 12 October 2017, quotes: "We believe that the establishment of an investigative commission will not bring any benefit, but will only interfere with the investigation conducted by the DORH. HDZ has no reason to keep anyone in this process and investigation, we have no problem with that, and that is why we do not want to interfere with the DORH investigation. When it comes to criminal responsibility, the DORH is the only institution that can determine and does exactly that, much better than we would do here, I am not inclined to have parliamentary representatives decide on the criminal responsibility of non-political people." So, however, counterpart Bacic played a little bit by giving us, the parliamentary representatives, the right to decide on the criminal responsibility of politicians. Interesting interpretation of the rule of law, some of the better understated in the area of law, a Freudian slip. Similarly, with a small addition to trade and the names for the election of Constitutional Judges, HDZ President and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who said on 27 September 2017, "I, even as HDZ President and as Prime Minister, have no reason for any decisions that would obstruct even the slightest bit about transparency. What we want is that the work of any committee does not affect the activity of the judicial system. Nor is the establishment of a commission required by the Croatian Parliament to elect constitutional judges. It is not good for the representatives of the Republic of Croatia, of which the Council is the most, to be in a position because of the majority needed to make decisions, and some parties are blackmailing the choice of constitutional judges with other decisions. They're separate things and they'll stay that way. It's a finished quote. When you add it all together, it's all there, taking care of legality, transparency, the government's trinity, the rejection of political trade, everything. It's a model paper, a model student. Yet as if all the devils had suddenly interfered, things had suddenly applied, quite transparently in the towers, a deal had been reached, who and yours and ours, who yours and ours would sit in the Constitutional Court and the investigation committee had been established. As usual, when any deal with HDZ was in question, the fig was in HDZ's pocket. It has been seen since the first day of the Commission's work, in fact, the entire work of the Research Commission, was one big attempt by the ruling majority, that the commission would be disabled first and then completely choked. Fortunately, HDZ colleagues, with a little help from the March HNS, have done so in a very transparent and credible manner. To the general satisfaction of all the public. The HDZ's story about how the judicial investigation is about to begin and how all this doesn't make sense has been imposed from day to day. What was not allowed to be prevented or prevented, however, were testimony from witnesses. Not by chance, in the order of the witness hearing, a chronological order has been set. Since the early '90s. According to the present, which clearly corresponded to HDZ and allies, in accordance with the principle that if you have to admit the truth, so be it, that someone who has long retired or at least long ago is politically relevant. I will not convince here in detail, whom we have all heard on the Assembly's Investigative Commission, who has said, who has avoided, you have followed it yourself, the Croatian public has followed, but I will remind you of several names that were in front of the commission, Josip Manulić, Franjo Gregurić, Borislav Škegro, Željko Rohatinski. Interesting are those who have recently been amnested by association with the commission, Bozo Prka, Ivan Šuker, Mato Churchvenac, Slavko Linić, Boris Vujčić. We requested documentation from the authorities and slowly began to receive it. In anticipation of the documentation requested by the official route, we were reviewing newspaper archives, publicly available documents, papers that provided us both familiar and unknown. The paperwork is still coming, and where it ends, no one knows. And what came, no one touched, and the president himself of the investigative committee said he didn't know either, where these documents are now. When the powers of the investigation took place on 20 November 2017, the opposition members of the commission proposed that the commission should stop working, according to the financial report quality point, for which the lawfulness of the investigation has been confirmed, while the remaining 10 issues would continue to be carried out. HDZ had no such dilemmas, he solved the story very simply, transparently and crediblely. The meeting of the Assembly Committee for Agrokor was held on 22 November 2017 only by the chairman of the Committee Orsat Milenić, and opposition members of Gordan Maras from the SDP, Professor Ivan Lovrinović and myself personally. Simply professional services were ordered not to appear at the session and to inform witnesses not to come. It is good to recall what information, then, shortly before the violent suspension of the Investigative Commission began to leak to the public. On November 15th, then-designate Commissioner Ramljak, published a list of advisers in Agrokor, meaning only 15 November. That's what he did six months ago. After the start of the extraordinary administration procedure, it adequately censored the data on the subcontractors of Alix. However, an internet portal, which is also responsible for the discovery of this affair, published a full list of advisers and made it clear to the rulings that Agrokor's investigation committee should be shut down at all costs. Although what the Index had published at the time, it was no big news at all in the media, but they figured out what it was and how far this team would go in the Assembly Investigation Commission. However, since something had to be done with the opposition request for the commission to continue its work, HDZ's majority, the conclusion that the opposition members had proposed it did not like it and the whole story ended on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, where the Iron Discipline of the Rulers, but certainly the basis of the Constitution and the law, concluded that the Commission's investigation ceases to work as a whole, but rather paradoxically, that the commission is not dissolved. So, Agrokor's investigation committee is the Constitutional Legal Zombie, dead, and yet alive, has legs, but does not walk, says the Chairman of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure. And the HDZ vote. You're surprised at all these colleagues and colleagues, especially in light of what's been going on in the last few days. That is why, and that is why, this proposal was tabled to amend the decision to set up the Agrokor Commission of Investigation. At the time when we submitted it, we wanted to give the Croatian Parliament the opportunity to declare the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and give the opportunity to the investigating committee to complete their work in a work in which there are no obstacles to this work. Of course, things look different from this perspective today. Unfortunately not better, but much worse. Now that she's completely unprovoked, just because of some twisted little shadow that fell on her shining political star, the government has abandoned her worthy vice president Martina Dalic and after all we've had a chance to find out about Agrokor, all we've learned in recent days, this proposal for a decision is now getting its full meaning. I know, and we'll probably hear it from colleagues here from the ruling majority, very soon you'll hear these voices that this investigative committee has nothing to do, I'm sure it's not by accident considering our terms and habits that lightningly announced that SOA and DORH are investigating the Hotmail affair and then we'll hear that old one again let the institutions do their job. At the same time, I think I have a lot of like-minded people when I say I don't think anything's gonna change. Unfortunately, the institutions in our country serve to do their job, or someone else's, anyway, but they don't finish what they started. If any investigations happen, the years will pass until we arrive at least some result, which decades until we welcome power, again in the hope that the Constitutional Court will not return everything to the beginning, but even if by some miracle a court ruling happens tomorrow, we are left without an answer to several important questions, where it all began and why? Who directed the processes so that Agrokor, INA, HT, Pliva, banks, and all those companies that are no longer listed in the Register of Commercial Courts? Who has benefited Bacic from this? How did the bosses come to be? We don't even ask where the money is anymore, we don't ask, and that's what Pupovac's colleague is talking about today, who the real owners are, that's not public information, because that's what the rulings, the directives, the human rights conventions, are calling for constitutional provisions, principles, laws, and they really have the right to do so. The order must be, regulations, directives, conventions, constitutional provisions, principles, laws must be respected and implemented, we agree. But for everything equally. These are strange regulations, directives, conventions, the Constitution, laws and opinions and interpretations which only protect those who can protect themselves. Haven't we missed something a little bit in applying all these regulations that we've come up with, calling for sublime goals and human principles? Something's gone wrong for us somewhere. Because if it hadn't, at least someone would have been convicted, at least someone on the inside would have seen the crowded Croatian prisons, and they didn't. If anyone has tried, the business march of the Croatian judiciary and the bliss of the outdated have done their part. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, the simple truth that you can succeed in Croatia if you are in good relations with the state. It's just a fine thing to say what we call a simple language to be tied up, if you're tied up, you can be the boss. In this case, Agrokora. If you're tied up, you'll do some people a favor, people will return that service, the only prior condition is that there's some state money in play and the game can start. So that's the point of this decision, to continue the job and show how it came about, how it grew up and how it swallowed us and eventually swallowed Agrokor. Who was all tied up and where all the big state money was buried in a bag with no bottom of one man and his family and all those leaned on him. The point is to show how we Croatian citizens saved Agrokor. I'm not talking about saving today, saving in the last year, but saving from the very creation of Agrokor and the origin of this country. And we didn't need any extraordinary commissioners, temporary or permanent committee of creditors, applications and trades, roll-ups, consultants, we just let them grab into our pockets, share the loot, and convince us that they're our good red neighbors, K plus family, just slip the card. When the game broke, the great happy K plus family remained just overworked cashiers and suddenly aged workers who dragged goods out of huge and half-empty warehouses onto half-empty shelves. When the boss seemed to have moved, under the cheerful red green color and everything that was allowed to be moved, when the tap was closed, it proved that behind the shiny neon, the cheerful tambourines and K plus the barbecue in the Super Konzum parking remained an empty concrete shell. Tens of thousands of hectares of concessions, water sources, pointless production plants without basic raw materials. We thought that story was over, too, that it was just a question of whether Todorovic would go after Kutlo to BiH or somewhere west? He chose the west, we hear he's having a hard time, he doesn't want to be sparring, but he's having a hard time holding up his lady. And when we thought there was nothing left to steal, the Maherians got involved bigger than yesterday's boss. Those who do not advertise hunting sites, helicopters, yachts, castles above Zagreb, but are bound, so bound, that they can simultaneously protect the interests of the red green shell and those whose shell is due to billions. Not only the capable, but the versatile, write laws, advise, draw out of ruin, make a deal, make horoscopes. The price of real change, me to you, you to me. Completely tied up. Under the patronizing umbrella of our government and its until yesterday's vice president, they did a great process, with a few smaller shadows that violated public perception and defiled social optimism, little things. Fellow Members and colleagues, the decision that is before you does not require that we untie these bounds, does not ask us to punish them, most of what we have been hearing about in recent days, and what, according to Andrej Plenkovic, is guilty of MOST independent lists, the investigative commission will not be able to discuss, even less. It would be against all those regulations, directives, conventions, constitutions, laws. What an investigative committee can do is deal with some old papers, listen to some already older people, listen to their stories adapted to their better past. Then I ask you, "What are you afraid of, colleagues from the ruling majority?" There is nothing more serious harm to us in this decision. Nothing will happen to you if you bring this zombie back to life. What's stopping you from mending your perception in public? Because perception is, as we had the opportunity to learn, politics is everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83062	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83063	Thank you very much, Vice President. At the beginning of your debate, you said that you would not mind the term if the ruling accepted this proposal to establish, or continue the work of the investigating committee, but you know as well as I that they would not accept it. Because if they wanted the commission to work, they wouldn't have shut it down, and there's a lot of weird stuff in this whole Agrocora process. It's weird that the commission was shut down, so let's just say that SOA was checking Mrs. Dalic's e-mails a few months ago, and she didn't find anything there, and then all of a sudden it exploded. But you know what else is weird to me? I find it even strange, you also mentioned that now the word will probably say that this commission can't work anymore, because now there's another investigation going on, an investigation against Mrs. Dalic, and you see it strange for me that the Minister of the Interior is just saying that the police are currently saying that the Mails affair is investigating everything that's been going on here because, as far as I know by our laws, the reconnaissance should be secret and should not be out in public, and especially from one of the interior ministers, and when a politician says that, we can doubt certain abuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83064	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83065	My colleague Djujic, it is clear to me that the term itself shows what kind of relationship they have with the investigating committee. But I just wanted to tell them there's nothing to be afraid of. That all I can do is fix my rating and the fact that people don't trust them, I'm not afraid of anything. There was also a calling here to the MOST by my colleagues, and I was afraid of something, so I wouldn't fight so hard for an investigative commission when it was, or when we had it and I was getting ready so seriously for these sessions and I would expose very interesting things like that. The fact that a former HDZ president, together with Ivica Todorovic, has been urging the CNB governor to engage politically. In every serious state, that would be the information that would shake the state. Nothing happened in Croatia. So that HDZ colleagues have nothing to fear, I expect they will accept this decision to restore the work of the Assembly's investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83066	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmoy, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83067	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Grmoi and Croatia are facing an uninterrupted series of affairs that are due to exactly non-transparent business. And of course it's not good that the debate is in this term, it's good that it comes after the debate we've had over the past few hours of conflict of interest. So I'll repeat what I said to HDZ at the very heart of the conflict of interest. And because of HDZ, it would be in the interest of this investigation committee to continue working and to discover all the problems that existed and which led to Croatia being truly like Orwell's animal farm for 28 years where everyone is equal, but some are a little more equal and become masters, and once the bosses are gone, some are a little more equal and write laws and enforce laws in a way that makes them huge benefits. So it is in the interest of the HDZ to continue this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83068	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83069	Well, yeah, we have a situation that the prime minister practically now represents this as some kind of little spot in a process where he's not responsible for anything, he didn't know anything, let's figure it out. Let's go before the committee, let's see what the Prime Minister knew, what he didn't know, whether he was aware of what this team was planning, when he found out that they were engaged as subcontractors, you and I found out here, if we followed the Index in November, or in February, it became a big subject, none of us knew that these people were also subcontractors, because it was hiding. The official reports of Agrokor, which Ante Ramljak provided in November 2017, cover that these people were subcontractors, and the Index published a list of subcontractors. It's only in February that it becomes a theme. That's recent, that's three months ago. It's becoming a subject that these people have become subcontractors. Maybe the Prime Minister doesn't have any responsibility, but let's go look into it. Then why the better investigation committee on Agrokor?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83070	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83071	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The investigation committee was then founded on the HDZ initiative. I also support this proposal now, your investigation committee needs to be re-founded, it should work. It was just beginning, Mr. Rohatinski gave a very valuable piece of information that's going to put a lot of puzzles in this puzzle of ours, and things have started to come out that the ruling majority had to shut down, I think it's clear to everyone. And that excuse, that's the DORH investigating, and then we can't explore, it doesn't really mean much. In practice, according to how much I studied the investigative committees, and I know a little bit about it, very rarely the DORH actually bothers one investigative committee. After all, the Kalmeta investigation lasted 10 years. So I can run an eternal investigation here, so we should never do anything. And we are about to get Ivica Todorovic into the Republic of Croatia, so there will be an increased chance that this new commission will actually bring him in and examine him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83072	I thank my colleague Sincic. Answer me, comrade Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83073	My colleague Sincic, if you remember, and I believe that you remember, Chief State Attorney Cvitan said that the investigation they're conducting does not conflict with what the research committee is doing about Agrokor, so there was no problem at that time for the commission to continue working, but if we look at the light of what's been going on in the last few days and what the Index is doing then began to publish, so no one in fact noticed it, only in February became the subject of Texo Management and Ante Ramljak, meaning three months ago, then it's logical that we were while we were interrogating Rohatinski and while I was pulling that confession, that they were not concerned about what Rohatinski is saying because it's already an old story and these are people who are not politically relevant anymore. Karamarko is the former HDZ president, who Andrej Plenkovic practically requested his resignation, etc. So, I think behind this affair that has now come out, there are real reasons behind it to shut down the Assembly's investigation committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83074	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83075	Thank you very much. Comrade Grumo, you have read this literary paper well, you will evaluate yourself after what I say because the facts are next. MOST was against the establishment of a whole investigation committee, even though you were a member of that committee. The SDP has written these Decisions, and you have taken over their article and, on behalf of the Most, corrected that article. Of the 3 SDP MPs who signed you none of them are here, they don't want to hear at all what you've prepared as a proposal for a decision. Of the 36 signatories, there are 9, right here. Two of them are not even MPs at all anymore, and 25 of them don't care what you're saying here, because we've simply realized in the past time that we can also discuss Agrokor very well on the Committee on Economy and learn that the law must be respected, not that we can adapt from moment to moment as it pleases us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83076	I thank my colleague, Boric. Answer me, comrade Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83077	Col. Boric, it is clear that we were not against the parliamentary investigative committee, but rather that certain people who were officials were sitting as members of the commission. It's a whole other thing, but at all these discussions of yours are completely irrelevant, count how many people there are. People are as many as there are, here's the Most people there's plenty, but it's 21 o'clock. Did you ask the chairman why he put such an important point at 21 o'clock to argue? I don't have that problem, I'll be here by morning if I have to, but there's not a lot of you from HDZ either. How many HDZ deputies are in total, how many of you are here in the assembly now, and you are calling out colleagues from the SDP and colleagues from the opposition. Well, don't, all day long, so they told you, you've been dealing with SDP all day, there's no need to deal with SDP because SDP here is not a topic. The theme is Agrokor. Do you want the truth about Agror or do you not want the truth about Agror? Fellow Boris, the question is very simple and deserves a very simple answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83078	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83079	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, dear colleague Grumoja, we have recently had a reverse thesis in the media, and especially in the media that are close to the ruling majority and in the media whose journalists have recently written that Martina Dalic should receive a Lifetime Work Award for the things she did in Agrokor, which is who released the emails, so who actually discovered and released the E-mail portal Index. Well, here I call for an investigative committee to be established and to be examined who released those e-mails because it's obvious that it's more important to the rulings than what these e-mails say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83080	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83081	A colleague of Sladolev's, and that may be a question, but I don't think it's a matter that needs to be focused. We have accusations that we're the ones playing emails, then at the same time we're the ones playing emails, but those who are responsible. So whoever's responsible is playing e-mails. So whoever's responsible for this whole situation, he's playing emails, what to compromise himself, I think. We're at that level of argument against the Most. But it is clear that MOST opened the topic of Agrokor in the government, the MOST questioned the responsibility of Ivica Todorovic by criminalising God Petrov, the MOST suggested that he could not get a new HBOR loan at that meeting in the government while Minister Zdravko Maric proposed it as a solution. We asked for 3 Commissioners, which Martina Dalic did not want to agree to, and that would be a good anti-corruption tool if this might not happen, although we might not know what was going on, so we can be happy that we already recognized in Zdravko Marić that it was a conflict of interest, asked for his departure from the government, and as Martina Dalic says, we can light a candle on the Stone Door.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83082	I'd like to thank my colleague Grmoy, but I'd like to ask you to keep an eye on your time. A couple of times. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83083	Comrade Grmoy, you spoke of the objectives of establishing an investigative commission, but let me draw your attention to one thing that the investigation committee should have set amongst those objectives that it has set in its work, which is next. The question which committee had to answer, why did the Government decide to propose a Law on the procedure of extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, and how did the process of preparing the law take place? So exactly the question that has been in the public focus in recent weeks, how the process of preparing lex Agrokor, so what we have been able to read in e-mails, in the media, in a transcript of one way, so let's say that it can't be discovered why it came out, the commission is in charge and it would actually examine all the competent persons and witnesses in what way this law was passed. And that was exactly what the commission was supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83084	I'd like to thank my colleague Dolnjak. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83085	So that's why my colleague Podolnjak says that he is doing the truth and for the sake of the public interest we must support everyone here in the assembly this renewal of the work of the Assembly's investigation committee, or those who have nothing to be afraid of. I think most of the MPs here, even in the ruling majority, have nothing to fear. Why would they be afraid to examine everything, to ask how it was done, what was done, how could it be that these people who were part of this financial group, together with lawyer Šavoric, are later engaged, is an interesting coincidence, so on Friday I announce that we are leaving the government, they are engaged as subcontractors on Tuesday or Wednesday, but nobody knows that, on Thursday, MOST ministers vote for Zdravko Marić's shift and virtually MOST is no longer even formally part of the government. I don't think that's an accident, if the team felt more MOSTs gone, now we can do what we planned from the beginning. And that only comes out in November, February, 26. 4. subcontractors are engaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83086	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83087	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So it is clear, no matter how much you deny it, that it is necessary for this commission to continue working because it is necessary in the end to see who has political responsibility for everything that has happened after the Most was expelled as a threat that they will find out what is actually going on and what is going on with the engagement of these advisers. But what interests me, which is if the SOA is obliged and it is her duty to report on every threat to the prime minister, and if they've reviewed all the e-mails, if they've done their job and haven't found any threats to Mr. Boss, could they have noticed anything else happening in those e-mails, had they had to and had reported to Mr. Prime Minister or could they not have done their job? It's gonna be that the prime minister just said okay guys, let's move on, you haven't found any threats, for the rest I'm taking control. Obviously, here someone's responsibility is also present and will eventually be learned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83088	I thank my colleague Strenja-Linić. My colleague Grumo's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83089	Well, that's all the questions we need to get answers to and stop these accusations that we can hear here, if someone's only responsible politically, because they're responsible for someone because they're senior vice presidents of the government, it's responsibility, but one kind of responsibility, but if someone knew everything, if someone was involved in the whole story, and then they pretended like they didn't know anything, it's already another type of responsibility. So this can help practically the Prime Minister and the Government themselves, and that all the facts are being questioned on this investigative committee, not only does it mean, as I told the creation of lex Agrokor, but everything that happened afterwards, but also what interests us all, who has been helping Ivica Todorovic all these years? Who helped Agrokor grow to this extent to threaten the Croatian economy like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83090	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83091	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Grmoy, the fact is that the parties were the branches of Agrokor, i.e. The edges of Todorovic and no one should have mentioned him, but ran around him like a little mouse. So I'm going to list just a few facts, the fact is that the ministries knew, mostly HANFA and HNB, 10 billion kunas of uncovered bonds were used by Agrokor and thus endangered the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the finance ministers must know. I liked to press charges, here's a year and two months. So we need a commission, but we need to expand the prisons they've done to this country. All the aggressors who came to the Republic of Croatia didn't in history do this much harm and damage, all together. And the fact is that here you need to react urgently and the fact is that the real time is to expand prisons, for all the criminals who have done this damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83092	Thank you, comrade Grmoy's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83093	My colleague Bulj, the fact that you filed criminal charges against the governor of the CNB against the leadership of the HANFA a year and a half ago, that doesn't mean anything, you're responsible for Agrokor, and the Prime Minister has been telling you that on TV for days, that's what Macan's spin and here are some colleagues from the opposition. So you're responsible for Agrokor, that Bozo Petrov has filed criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic, and for years they have loved bulls in horns and written about beautiful apples, and who cares, Bozo Petrov is responsible for Agrokor, MOST is responsible, you are responsible. We who warned everyone, who exposed this affair, are responsible for Agrokor. I don't need to mention it to you here when it doesn't mean anything to you that you're a year ago, while the rest of them have been silent, filed criminal charges against the governor of the CNB and the leadership of the HANFA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83094	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to debates on behalf of clubs, respected colleague Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83095	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing again in the late hours of an important Law on the Research Commission for Agrokor. To solve that basic dilemma, so the Living Wall maintains these changes and I support the continuation of the work of the Agrokor investigation committee as well as all other investigative committees of Parliament because I think there are a lot of work and so far the parliamentary committees as far as I know, in 20 years it was only 11, it means far too little. Thank God this is one commission led by the President of the Living Wall, Ivan Willibor Sincic, finished his job, finished it well, quality. We have analysis, compatibility and synthesis, and I think it's essentially in some way an incentive for this commission to do its job, too. Now, before I repeat it again, definitely something happened in the case of Agrokora that we can call the Croatian Watergate with the fact that Watergate, the real Watergate, had a happy ending and I'm afraid that there is such happiness here, namely that the ruling majority has no courage to clear up something that we can't call otherwise than crime, a joint criminal enterprise, theft. An octopus. The Mafia method. And now I know the gentlemen of HDZ will say your rhetoric is populist, you are attacking us excessively as Mr. Bačić says, but here's Mr. Bacic, ask any lawyer, let Bunjac and Pernar and Sinčić, ask, you had Mr. Miladin, you had Mrs. Jasnica Garasic, ask Dalia Oreskovic, who you unanimously accepted every year reports that in the course of the crisis in Agrokor would have driven her away in a very perfidious way, hiding her decision practically until the last day and choosing the new president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, practically setting up one person that there was no choice because there was no choice between which to choose. Ask, you all must know the lawyers, I asked them, and they are all unanimous, unanimous that the crime committed here and that it is necessary to press charges. If you don't trust lawyers, Croatian lawyers, give the world press, open Austrian portals, open Slovenian portals, open not know, English portals and see what they write. They all say a corruption affair like Croatia does not remember, does not occur. It's bigger than Fimi Media and everything we've had before, and it's really very worrying. The HDZ, unfortunately, is a malignant tissue on the body of a young Croatian state, a party that functions on the principle of privilege, on the principle of opportunism, a party that thinks HDZ is equal to Croatia and that only those associated with them can exercise some rights in that country can be equal citizens and the rest of you can be only below, can be harassed and most importantly, ridiculed and driven out of this country. But what I can't understand, even if in part I can't understand is what you're so-called. coalition partners who encourage this government are still saying, say Mr. Curaj, I'm protecting jobs, I'm in the interest of a settlement, I don't know what reasons they'll come up with, they'll probably ask their PR who pay very expensively, we don't have it in the Living Wall, but well, that's not a topic right now. But the public is convinced that you're actually the only job you're guarding is your own. You keep your jobs, your constituencies, that's what you keep because you know very well if parliamentary elections were to be called so that you would never sit here again. You're not the so-called. Independent MPs who have fled from the SDP or are currently fleeing to the ruling majority's side and who have actually deceived voters. You entered 9/11 with a completely different story, you even signed that you would never get along with HDZ, and now you're doing it. And tell me nicely we're defending our pay for the assembly. That's what you're defending. And minority gentlemen, they also have no choice. I understand them. Now that they had dared to bring down the government, the HDZ would have already put 250,000 signatures on the referendum initiative. Because it's a little carrot method, so in HEP Plinacro, JANAF, I don't know where all the HNSs are, a little beating, for minorities, and they just have to listen. That's right. But it is not, in essence, the sense of politics, it is not the sense of coming to the Parliament, and there is so much talk about this conscience, about this kind of voter's will, so let's understand that over 80% of Croatian citizens believe that Agrokor was created illegally and largely. And that this government no longer has the legitimacy to tell citizens that everything will be fine, what hybrid fabrication, so what you fantasize about, what hybrids are attacking you. A joke and a party. Says the nickname is for joke and entertainment. Is it really a joke, you really think it's jokes. That's what the man who runs the country says. I don't know, here's Mr. Pupovac, Mr. Radin, let's go HDSBB, don't they all think it's really a joke small. See what kind of jobs were done in the shipbuilding. Even during Milanovic's government, Ivan Vrdoljak, who was Minister of Economy, how you privatized Brodosplit, a billion and a half kuna, you threw state subsidies into the wind. A whole series of criminal acts have begun, three times as much damage as Agrokor, who continued the job? Minister Dalic, she was the minister of the economy, along with an intermeco, Mr Panenic. And it's all done the same, it's re-delivered Oil, it's re-delivered 3 May, for what? That Mr. Koncar is funded by the Istra football club, which we read in the media today. Is that an accident? Is it by any chance that the Uljanik is given to Mr. Končar, and at the same time he's funding the Istra football club, since it didn't occur to him, I don't know 5 years ago if he's already funding sports, etc. Yes, yes, otherwise the applications have been submitted to the DORH, long ago, for the privatisation of the shipyard and that will eventually come out in the open, Mr. Curaj, don't worry. You'd rather call the election right now, while you still have some poor 20%, because soon you won't have that either. You know very well who they'll go to, they'll go to us. I'd rather call it in when we have 15% than when we're 35. That's for your advice, so it doesn't turn out, if I hadn't helped you in some way, I was well-intentioned. Yeah. And this, too, I have to ask my bridge colleagues, the truth is, it's also well-intentioned. So you had the Ministry of Justice, you had the secretary of state from your party on the e-mail, the media said you were looking for independent experts, because it seems logical to me because the Bridge always advocated independence, you even suggested an independent diameter, so you finally got it, the alleged Mr. Tim Oreshkovic. You had to know which people were putting together lex Agrokor, I'm not saying that Nicola Grmoya read those e-mails and that he knew about them, but you had to know what people you were part of that group. And if the names of 8 consultants, the first 8 consultants were published, you had to see with pure logic, that one and the same man was writing the law and that one and the same man was now implementing the law. That's what Mr. Grbin told you, the conflict of the legislative executive. Can I, at the same time, be a parliamentary representative and I don't know, director of HRT, for example? I can't, it's not possible, by law. And you could see that the same people were both legislative and executive. And that's not good. And if you saw it, you had to alarm the entire Croatian public on 12.4. This isn't good, but you've waited until today. You waited until today, and now all we can do is wonder why you've been waiting? We normally in the Living Wall, when it was that 14.10.2016 session, when Mrs. Dalic came here, then we already said, don't even put it on. Thank God, there are phonograms, there are audio records, don't put it on. You raised your hand for her. Okay, you raised your hand for her. When Lex Agrokor came, we were saying that law was harmful, that law was a family business, that law would cost the state dearly, you raised your hand for that law. I don't know, only Mr. Bull if he didn't pick up, I don't think he did. And then when you came in, when you were kicked out of the government by the HDZ, why didn't you just, if you had that information, give it to the public. That's what I have to ask you and repeat again, I think that in that way, we're basically helping you conduct a public dialogue to clear this thing up. Because this thing needs to be cleared up. And us, you know, often in the Living Wall, they ask who you'll be collating with. And who do we collage with? When everyone in this hole, the SDP Milanovic government, privatized Brodosplit. They were also with Mr. Todorovic in dealings with all possible species. They also paid homage to foster homes, gave him state subsidies, gave him loans, didn't check his balance sheets, knew everything and didn't read. And it's kind of a responsibility, when you know, and you don't. It's called Mr. Shukur, not vigilance, for not fornication used to go to the naked island, and today you don't pay even 5 kn punishment for not fornication. For insubordination, you know, but, you know, you know, you know, what I can do, if I cancel obedience, I'm gonna be anonymous, it's not good, because I'm already used to some privileges, I'm used to cameras, I'm used to good pay, so I guess I'm not gonna go back to doing the job I've been trained for. That's how people think, unfortunately. This is the way of thinking you brought to the Croatian Parliament. This is an opportunity for everyone to look themselves in the face, this is an opportunity for a new beginning, a real opportunity. This is an opportunity for the new State Attorney, who is also set up for political convenience but also for professions, to take what has to be done, as Vice President Dalic wrote, moves that must be withdrawn must be withdrawn. That's how I would recommend the same thing to the state attorney, just what Martina Dalic said herself, which must be done, then must be done, and it is known. And that is the possibility of the Croatian state doing so. To show that there are no untouchable criteria in this country and to show that new criteria must be introduced in politics, that new criteria must be introduced in the economy, new criteria in society and most importantly, to restore trust from the bond between Croatian citizens, their interests and the interests of the elites that represent them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83096	Now, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83097	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, here I will speak to Bunjc on his well-intentioned request, on good faith. So, I think we've all been through this debate, here that we've had, the replicas we've already said. Just now, Most, a colleague of Bunjac, has prescribed political and criminal responsibility for Ivica Todorovic, a criminal application. Most just said no at the government's meeting to throw state money at Agrokor, while Minister Zdravko Maric spoke at the meeting about the possibility of the HBOR giving another loan because it lacks such exposure to Agrokor. And besides, a colleague of Bunjac, due to the conflict of interest, Zdravko Marić, our ministers, and we here in the assembly, voted in favour of Zdravko Marić's recall. Data, some of the data you're presenting is completely accurate about advisors and consultants. As I said, they, meaning their names and the fact that they are engaged, is the first Index published in November, not April of the month, because they are only engaged in April 26th, and 27th we are no longer officially part of that government. And already, as I said here and my colleague Bozinovic can, if he is ready to go, I am ready to test myself, anywhere on Friday, before that government said and opened all the cards on Thursday and said that the Bridge will vote Minister Zdravko Maric and then any communication between Most and HDZ has stopped. We have nothing to fear, we are not afraid of the truth, after all, we are proposing a parliamentary investigation committee. If it's politically opportunistic for you to attack the Bridge, I can understand it and I don't have any problems with it, but what I'm looking for and why we're going to fight is true, and the Bridge is a political option, I repeat, that opened the issue of Agrokor. And you say you didn't vote for Lex Agrokor, you didn't, you didn't because you were an opposition. But if you were in power then and you had information, that there would be an economic collapse, then the question is, if you're a responsible man, I believe that you are both responsible and serious, the question is how would you think at that point. But what we've been insisting on all along, that's transparency in the process, that's three commissioners, I'll never forget a meeting in the government before the vote, where I spoke to the Deputy Prime Ministers, that it takes three Commissioners in Agrokor, which would be an excellent anti-corruption instrument, but there was no hearing. It's been said that we're complicated, that we're always complicated, that the situation is difficult, that the collapse of the economic collapse will happen, that, I don't know, 1,000 people will end up on the street, should look at the situation at that point, not from this perspective. But what is certain is that we opened Agrokor and no one can take it from us, regardless of these stories, we opened the topic, we opened the issue of criminal responsibility of Ivica Todorovic, Miro Bulj, a year and a half ago, a colleague of Bunjac, raising criminal charges against Governor Vujčić, against the leadership of HANFA, because of these bonds without cover. I don't think people who are responsible for anything and who don't want the truth would do it. Besides, there was no one here at the assembly, I didn't see anyone. And Bozo Petrov then appeared, Ivan Kovačić and I, meaning, and were still in office, essential functions, meaning Deputy Prime Minister. I appear, that is, that was already negotiations for the formation of this other government, there was no one. I didn't see anyone at the Boss movie show. While Ivica Todoric was not Agrokor then, no one knew Agrokor was falling apart. There was no talking about it. He may have known Zdravko Maric, but he claims he knew nothing. No one was there, and it was interesting that now, those who opened everything up, by the bridge of Plenkovic, according to Macann, those who were responsible, and I am sorry, here, that you in that political opportunism, fell for such spin. And we are ready to answer all questions before the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83098	We've got four replicas, first in line, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83099	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Grmoi, I just started a replica for you, too, that the parties were branches of Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic were SDP, were HDZ until the appearance of MOST. Since the appearance of MOST nothing is the same, the first pt has been dropped by the government one. 12 MPs wouldn't hesitate. That's why my colleague Bunjac is here in Parliament, and I'm glad, however, that there are even more people to warn the elite about what they've been doing. The fact is that Agrokor as a concert, a political concert, he wasn't just an economic, it was a system, he was putting together governments but still a group of people as you said opposed, she said no more. No more money, billions of kunas you've beaten, Todorovic, that he's covered his debts, and he's co-financed the parties in the elections, including the regional parties. We can talk about it, but we don't talk about it, and he's every sinner and he's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83100	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83101	Comrade Bulj, the situation is quite clear, divorceous, one who wants to listen to facts, arguments, will see who practically changed the Croatian political scene. We now see MPs crossing from one party, supporting the ruling majority. So remember 12 brave and unsuspecting MOST MPs who refused every advance and went and signed for parliament's disbandment and went to elections. Well, we're not asking for any credit for that, but at least they're not giving us these questions, some of our responsibilities for the things we've opened up. Which we opened. But if they don't appreciate colleagues in the Parliament, believe me, they'll appreciate history.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83102	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83103	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Grmoy, I am not here in conflict with you or with MOST, nor is it a colleague of Bunjac, but we are asking you to explain some of the illogicalities that have appeared in the media. Well, that's how we know that your secretary was on the e-mail, and I know that you've been looking for experts. Okay, if you asked for experts and if you voted for the law, it makes sense to think that you asked who these people are, what they do, what their competences are and how the law is progressing. So logic says you knew at least part of the Borg group. Another thing, 12.4. I have here one of several articles, 8 names of Ramljak's advisors are listed. Bricelj, Delić, Martic, Bošnjak, Cvitan, Šavoric, Laca, so at least 3 to 4 of these names, 12.4. of those who wrote the law. So you know this from the public, and you should have known this from the government, so I ask you why you didn't talk about it then, is that a mistake in thinking or is that something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83105	No, I don't know about this data and date but these people can't be advisers in Agrokor if they're hired, a contract with the AlixPartners 25.4. I don't know what year it is, they need to check what you're showing. So, 25.4. AlixPartners signed a contract with Agrokora, and the next day he hired advisors as subcontractors. So that date can't be at all, but fellow Sincic, I think you listened well to what we were saying these days, that it was created for financial analysis before meeting with Ivica Todorovic and that it wasn't a law-writing team. As the team is accompanied by a lawyer named Šavoric, who is actually a law writer who is not in any correspondence with the State Secretary and the Ministry of Justice that you mention, the State Secretary and the Ministry have received a final law and 3 today for newly technical alignment, so things are quite clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83106	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83107	Thank you very much. Representative Grumoja, you are now experiencing this as some personal tragedy of yours, so simply if you have listened to my debate you have seen that I have in some way commented on all the people involved and including, of course, parliamentary parties. We are already at the beginning of the presentation, I said that I essentially support this initiative of yours, that our club supports, that we will support you in every way but we simply wanted to clear up some things from the past and it's simply hard for us to believe since you had the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice that maybe you weren't informed enough about everything. Maybe some things could have been prevented if it was just as you would have said, more awareness of the problem, and that was the problem in the country number one, and just like that, we have to get things out of the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83108	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83109	By chance, my colleague Bunjac, there's no tragedy, so anyway, we're looking for a parliamentary investigative commission, if there were any tragedy, then they wouldn't be looking for him, so in that sense, our position here is quite clear. It is the same that I am telling you now that the Living Wall supports this government because the people selected from your list, means like fellow Muscles or fellow Scybols from time to time support the government, and we all know that it is not because you do not support it and the leadership of the Living Wall, or that you have a State Secretary at the Justice Department Juru Martinovic who was selected from your list. That's the level of the story. We don't have any responsibilities here like you don't have responsibilities because Juro Martinović is a state secretary or that Ivica Misic supports this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83110	We're going to the next debate. The club of HNS representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83111	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to read what the agenda is, it's already gone everywhere, you wrote it, huh? Well, first of all, I'm only going to look back on a concrete proposal to continue the commission. I think that when he had the opening presentation, he did not mention the name of the commission itself, among other things in that long name, he said he would deal with the commission and Agrokor's business activities, the circumstances that led to the government's activities towards Agrokor, or a proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was located. Well then we have here earlier, someone mentioned, in the very existing investigative committee, when looking at what it does, so it deals with the very creation of Lex Agrokor, so something that we now see in the media is doing some reconnaissances. What we were saying at that time, when we look at the Law on Investigation Commissions in Article 4 which says it cannot be brought about for the questions in which the procedure is being initiated, then it cannot be established, if a procedure on a matter has been initiated, then for whose research is established, it will cease to work, as we have the situation. So we were talking then, and I, so first of all, we have absolutely no problem investigating anything, I think at least of all, as I see it. So whoever does, whatever they want. But I have a problem with the main goal, as much as my colleague Bunjac has tried to trivalise it, yes, the aim of the law is to save jobs, it's, it's not mantra, it's what's key, it's what everyone should be mantra at that level, not political leaps, tricks, ratings, populisms and such things used there, but really what this law represents and what it has allowed us, every interference in any judicial, judicial action of any other body means also mixing legislation into judicial power because we don't know, and then we said that this investigation will go, so she's a secret, could be about financial reports, could be about different credits, why not? The 2016 loan may be explored, although it is beautifully written in that decision, not the HABOR loans which were, but the HABOR loans which were in December 2016, so, in the very decision to investigate the Commission, it may not be explored what was before some other loans, I suppose, and I don't know, it's possible, maybe not. As far as the adoption is concerned, we can see that some of the reconnaissances, we do, and there's been mentioned by some police minister's statement, we have some signs in the media that USKOK has been involved, statements by the president of the Committee on Economy that some of the documents have already been excluded from the Committee on the Economy where we had the debate, means the current things. And now, on top of all that, we're going to start something up again and go straight in with the football jargon, I don't think I know where it's going to go, because you know what would happen potentially? You may have some witnesses in the process that will settle with the UskoKI, for example, or you might know it, you can't know, or talk, you don't talk, and then we call those people on the committee. What's he doing now? They don't answer, they break the law, they come there directly to jeopardize the investigation, so I don't think anyone's up to it. But we can't know that. That's why when it's written and it's made, that it's simple and stop working and that it can't be established by the commission when such things happen, whether we're going to discuss it now, so who's going to say if this guy can come, he can't come, now I'm going to ask him this, I'm not going to ask him, that every witness there should have a lawyer who can then advise him what he can't, what he can't say, that would really turn into a joke. I say once again, there is absolutely no problem for the CNS, nor for me personally to have anyone come, to say anything, to discuss anything, but to compromise this process, to endanger all these jobs and what we said then and I think we let the relevant bodies of our own work, opportunities for the commission will be. If we've talked about things 20 years ago, even in a few years we can talk about today's times and times before that. We will establish political responsibility, but let's save each job first, allowing one framework and stability for the law to be implemented and let relevant people work without interference and without intertwining, intertwining and everything else. As far as the framework we're talking about right now, my colleague Bunjac is, I mean, everything he's said and everyone else in general is responsible for everything and what they've ruined Croatia, and we're going to ruin it in three months, which is what I mean most of their message with their proposals, or maybe, maybe, they'll last five months if we spend half of what they're saying to do. I think it is absolutely normal to make it clear that you can neither print money nor ban credits, or at least not until everyone takes them as they need to, or exit just like that from the EU and costs, etc., etc. I mean, it doesn't make sense, and the only thing I haven't asked you is if they told me, and I don't know if that's true, is that you were a member of the HNS when you got so much HNS, so if it is, thank you for coming out. As far as MOST is concerned, I also don't understand the one thing that Bunjac here has apostrophe, which is that here's his colleague, Grmoja, said that he announced to Plenkovic that he would leave the government, or later reform himself, so he said he would vote against, I believe that you had the intensities to vote against and remain in the government, regardless of the outcome or replace only that minister, or specifically Minister Maric. However, it is not clear to me when we now see that within your ministry people had emails and saw who everything was, 3 days before the truth, you were involved, and I suppose you suggested, but you saw then who was involved in who was giving opinions and, in fact, the more people should be involved. I don't think that's at all controversial. The dispute after that was, it's controversial that the prime minister knew 3 days before or 3 weeks ago, I don't see it being disputed. MOST has proposed advisors, as many people involved in doing something in a short time, absolutely yes. But later the question began to arise, you see that Mr Ramljak then asked the Ministry of Justice, your minister and secretary of state, and then suddenly this same man looking for evidence appeared as a proposal from the Commissioner. I don't know if your proposal is addressed or not, and you don't find it controversial. The man who's been doing something about the law, now he's suddenly the commissioner and you're voting him. All right. Later, my colleague Maras, poor fellow, resisted here as much as he could from all the stained veins, the maltene on his fingers standing all the time and saying, "Who wrote the law, who wrote the law?" I figure out how much he wanted to find out, nothing bad. And you don't remember, I believe that you didn't know, your president probably knew, not likely, I said that he knew, you as a member of the commission didn't react. Because I suppose you really didn't know, but at least your president could have told you or someone from the Justice Department. You know, you see, maybe those who sent an opinion and advice to us three days before we voted. Nobody said that. Anyway, it's our fault we shut down the commission, we don't want to know who wrote the Law. I don't have a problem finding out. But I have a problem with questioning one job, one supplier and production and all those cooperatives. What does that mean for me in Slavonia? You have Belje, you have Vupik, PIK Vinkovce, you have cooperatives in livestock production, in war production, people who depend on these companies. Where would they be? Someone said, I mean, the other day in the open, a colleague, Maras, said that if it had been under bankruptcy law, it would have been the same thing. It's obviously not a good word, it wouldn't be the same, because it wouldn't happen by the bankruptcy law or anywhere near anything could happen. Why? So who's going to give credit to the bankruptcy companies when you have a series of banks like this on the side that have the right to the billing championship, they gave... Believers and now someone new will give credit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So where's he coming from? Well, no one. There would be no means to start production, to fill the shelves. All people are automatically bankrupt on the stock market, I mean now they can be really bad, and I don't like to go down to that same level, probably then, unfortunately, there'd be more of those who would have to be expelled from their homes and not have the ability to even return loans and complete it, so maybe there's an option to find your chance to show a little bit more of how to protect them, so if that was some goal, I don't want to think about it. So that's what it was. We were then, says dam law now, then they were against him. We did, we were against it, absolutely loud and clear, not against doing something, but also against going the other way, but in the same direction. We've been making amendments, not accepted, we've got what we've got. And we decided to take responsibility. Well, it was easier for us, you say, if I was sitting here in the Parliament. First of all, I didn't come from the street here, I didn't grow here three times, but they even decreased. So, it's not this, this may be a dream for those who don't want to do anything, say something a little without worrying and without thinking and get big money. And that's why people don't like it, that's why people give us so bad grades. But taken responsibly, prepare for every debate and responsibly represent and... better, it's of course there are a lot of people who are such here, it's praiseworthy and deserved honorable work, as well as any other who do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it would be easier for us to say goodbye, let's go to a new election. What, I'm not gonna be nine, we'd get five, six MPs, something in the coalition again and we'd be, what would we do? Why? And let's say, we saved face, and we destroyed the country. It's a dilemma ahead of us. Someone was ready then to let that thing happen, we're not. We gave Agrokor a chance, we gave him a chance... We gave an opportunity to reform education, which no matter what someone is trying to say, obviously from some political initiatives and all kinds of nonsense I've listened to, was absolutely done in 10 months more than in the last 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, you do have the Committees and now the new Law on Education, high school and basic and absolutely it's about the well-being of our children. And let's do that, it was worth every beating we got, every bad malicious word, every envy that was expressed, it was worth everything because it was both my child and your children and our children in that. So let's get back to the subject. The commission thinks it will have its own time and I think we should explore some things, but when the legal assumptions are fulfilled and when it's best, what would be said is for our citizens and more meaningful, and we're going to let this story about Agrokor end and that everyone is still working and getting even bigger wages, not to plant and throw clips at every possible step as if we don't really want that to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83112	Now it's time to re-propose. A respected colleague, Panenic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83113	Thank you very much. I also thank my colleagues Curai what essentially, in some ways puts the role of NHS as something less important in this process was, but I would go back a bit in history. So, by entering the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts then, the first attention the MOST had, it means something that triggered our attention to her was a topic about HEP. At this point, the Minister is actively in favour of... HEP, worked by the team at the time of Minister Vrdoljak who is also with associates who have been hidden... some numerous advisors very difficult to identify. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that there is a group of consultants in Croatia who are gathering and whose key interest is to sell 25% of HEP and to earn the profit of providing their services. That was the first part. There has been a sign of a significant crisis there in February, although it has been since the beginning of the year, since February there has been a sign of a crisis in Agrokor, Bozo Petrov exits the prime minister and then links between HDZ and HNS are strengthening. So we have a parallel process in which the crisis is going on on one side, escalating on the other side also the untrust of the HDZ towards the Most because we insist on resolving this issue and slowly developing a new situation where there is a new connection between the HNS and HDZ and we are in a situation where the Most can choose whether to fly immediately from the Government or we can try to influence finding a better and better solution that Agrokor, which is a really big and economic problem in Croatia, finds a solution. This solution came out as a draft law which, as such and the Ministry of Justice, was then taken into account as a proposal three days earlier when we were not only at the Ministry of Justice but also the other ministries that needed to give their testimony, it was included that nomotechnical testing of this article, which was then from the so-called so-called "Court." The economy ministry, but we actually see now from these e-mails coming out of the minister's office got to adapt to current legislation, so that it can go before the parliament to adopt itself to build up the conditions to continue working primarily in Agrokor and to ensure the viability of the jobs. Of course it's very demanding, it's demanding and politically, it's also demanding economic. And what is where the Bridge is, and that is that any of its activities, of course, that HDZ as a leader in governance and the media, influences that we are characterized as a group of politicians who want to harm non-admission may not be stopping... not by voting but by stopping the law itself to endanger jobs and to bear absolute blame for something that happened before. Then we see that after this process comes the final decision of HDZ Most must leave the government. So it's not like you as HNS happened just like that, it's the processes that lasted, it's the relationships that are well-linked with you. And in the end, who stands in all of this, I would say to the co-existence that arises as a real danger, which is the Deputy Prime Minister who organizes a group of people with whom he knows himself well, who, by their efforts, have found what they lost on HEP, which is Agrokor. It's a start. And in the end, we need to find a model that the president should also leave, and unfortunately it has lasted until today, but we see when there is quality evidence then the prime minister must also protect himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83114	Comrade Curaj, come in. ... Okay, I don't believe you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83115	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Panenic. Well, there are clear things here who wants to see them. You mentioned this situation around HEP there was also this team's plan to sell HEP. Let us remember that status published by counterpart Bulj, said there was no sale of HEP without asking Croatian citizens, and it was precisely through this sale of HEP that the INA was to be purchased. And it was this same team of Ramljak and Matic. On the other hand, we had a proposal from Secretary of State Chikotic, which he made, which includes practically without the sale of HEP to buy out the shares of INA. After all, you were involved in these presses and represented that model of ours. And that's where these conflicts started. You have one political option that defends the general public interest, and you have these vultures who watch that will be used both on HEP and on Agrodor and on INA, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83116	Thank you. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83117	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. It is clear that the person of Ramljak, Matić and others can be removed today, and then there is a Mole or someone else who shows up and we both do the same. It's always looking at who's actually brain surgery, who's the one who manages these processes, and it needs to be removed, and it actually happened now. By leaving Minister Dalic we have somehow received a part of the political separation process from Agrokor. We are still unhappy that in Agrokor there are continuing processes where the services provided under the same contracts and I hope that even the creditors will find a solution very quickly to remove that part. I hope this is the last time that this organized group affects any company in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83118	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83119	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Panic, I couldn't quite tell you the course of thought, let alone the debates. Something HNS, and then Martina Dalic, and then you do something, and then something HNS before, and then, if I get it right, we're in some kind of conspiracy where we actually wrote the law. I didn't really understand in what context you mentioned us as something that was before the law was passed, right? Here, just explain it to me, just for the sake of the public, because I really didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83121	Well, I can make it very clear to my colleagues, so you weren't asked there, wondering your party chief, Mr. Vrdoljak. So if you're discussing this now, you don't have information, you're not involved in it, you're sitting here, you can discuss it in a new time. At the time when this was happening, and we discussed that application during the term of office, unfortunately, you didn't even participate in those talks, so then it's pointless to talk about it. You need to defend your work now while you're in the ruling coalition and that's what, and that past, unfortunately, you didn't stop when it was meant to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83122	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83123	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenić, he would agree with you that the HNS is in a cake by fellow Bačić, the godmother of Seks, he is aware that I can't get out of the cake, because they simply don't have a percentage, which is, you guessed that long ago, I saw Seks Vujnovac, from PPD to below in not going to advertise the restaurant, I saw also the gentleman of their party Vrdoljak, before with Mr Jurčević, and so, I saw from the PPD these... So it's been done long before, of course, only because of HEP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course HEP is a very easy target and everything that went wrong around HEP could be subsidized electricity from renewable sources and that's the process that went on, it's long ago agreed. Most of the HDZ in the presidency was for, mostly Mr. Bačić's godfather, he ran the operation, he was there for the HNS, of course. HNS... Give, this is the rest we do as we do... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83124	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83125	Comrade Bulj, it's very short and clear to give an answer to this of yours, our invited Mr. Shakespeare, he's actually clearly defined it. So when he told Plenkovic the current opening, we're dropping Maric, you're the next target. Now we have a situation, a good thing that may have happened even more, and that is that by falling Martine Dalic, it has proved to be a threat to the diameter itself. So now the pawn is sacrificed, and we'll see what happens to the king.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83126	Let's move on, next debate on behalf of the club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83127	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. A theme that's already been done for 16 months. It is almost daily in this House and tonight, that is, today, when we have been discussing Agrokor for almost eight hours, she has obviously become bored with this left side of the assembly, because I don't see any single SDP representative. I don't see a single representative from the HSS and apart from the Bridge, here's the honor of the opposition, defending Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash and Mr. Giovanni Sponza, sorry and waiting for the word. I prepared something else, but my colleague Panenic, I must say, changed the course of that speech I was planning. I would remind myself that this whole problem, which happened with Agrokora, when he threatened his bankruptcy, or collapse, occurred at a time when HDZ and Most were in the coalition. From day one until the law was passed in Parliament, Mosta actively participated in writing this law. Not only did he actively participate, but he proposed to the group, which helped the government, i.e. Vice President Dalic, a few members of the task force and everything that happened with this task force, the Bridge was in detail familiar, much more than I do. And if that were true, it was confirmed by Mr. Relkovic in his interview, in which he said that Most was briefed on the activities of passing the law itself. Therefore, every moment that task force has helped to write the Law on Extraordinary Administration, our then coalition partners from the Bridge have been familiar with everything. Together we passed the Extra-Government Act here in the Assembly. And I have to say, if I didn't know that, I'm saying that now as president of the club, who was specifically in that task force. But I have claimed what is true, which has been confirmed today that it is true that certain legal, economic experts, consultants, have acted and assisted the government, assisted the Ministry of Economy, assisted the Ministry of Justice in writing this law. After the law was passed, after the former management at the head of Ivica Todorovic signed the activation of the law itself, the Commissioner who was very well-known to his colleagues was appointed and I find it odd that my colleague Grumoje said that he was only somewhere in February of this year or when he found out when members of the group who wrote the law himself were engaged. Col. Grumoja, all the media in Croatia, it is very easy to check today, on April 11th at the press in Agrokor called by Ante Ramljak, he presented all his associates, I will not name names, the same ones he claims to have helped and participated in writing the law for a long time. So when someone claims that this is only in February or that only after the resignation of Mr. Ramljak, they find out who was engaged by that law - writing group is not telling the truth. You can easily google today, set up so you'll see, he introduced them and told them who these people are and these people helped him engage AlixPartners and AlixPartners is engaged 24.4. and we're still in coalition with MOST. Therefore, you knew then that AlixPartners was engaged, you knew very well then because the entire Croatian public knew not only one who was not interested, who was involved and advised and helped Anti Ramljak as an extraordinary commissioner. I'm asking the question why do you keep it so in your head today? Why didn't you say that then, these people, because you knew it, maybe somebody else didn't know it, but you knew who was helping write the law. Why then in those 15 days between the appointment of Commissioners and the arrival of the AlixPartners you didn't go public and told me to oppose it, it was a constant conflict of interest, it couldn't happen, it was MOST's silence. And then something that was incomprehensible for us at HDZ, which is that on the SDP's proposal to launch the responsibility of Finance Minister Zdravko Marić, our coalition partner, who writes the law with us in the Government, without whose hand the law would not have been passed, without whose support he would not have been named Ante Ramljak, and yet I didn't know it, said Ante Ramljak on the Committee on Economy that he was personally called by the President of the Parliament at the time Bozo Petrov. Therefore, you are dear friends and colleagues from the Most when the SDP launchs an initiative to bring down Zdravko Maric, you join it. Both you and the Government are supporting and not supporting the minister, voting for his shift, followed by the resolution of MOST ministers. It was a procedure after which we in HDZ raise a question, collect a sufficient number of signatures and seek a shift from the seat of President Mr. God Petrov. Why am I saying all this? This is all what I'm saying for the reason he's trying to transfer the responsibility of the HDZ hiding something. In the HDZ and us at the HDZ Club, there is no reason to hide anything that has happened, personally as the president of the club and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, is proud of the adoption of the Law on Extra-Governmental Administration, because the responsibility of this party, the right side of the bill assembly, for its adoption, for the fact that we have stopped the collapse of Agrokor, through the suspension of the Agrokor Croatian Economic, Financial System, we have saved 60 000 jobs and another 150,000 jobs outside of the competition, i.e. suppliers and companies operating with Agrokor, made it possible for the tourist season, which I have already spoken 100 times, made it possible for Croatian suppliers to collect, those smaller micro-enterprises 100%, 60%, by the end of 80%, in this procedure, thanks solely to this law. So today, when anyone, and especially I say to our MOST colleagues, claims that we're hiding something, that's not true, we have nothing to hide, and that they don't know, there's nothing to hide, that you don't know and there's nothing to hide. If there was a shadow, if this engagement was made by an ex-extreme commissioner with his up until yesterday's co-workers on writing the law, and that's what we've been showing ourselves about. Afterwards, an extraordinary commissioner resigned, or retired, and a new deputy commissioner arrived and continued his work. As far as other circumstances are concerned, and on several occasions today we spoke of colleague Bulj... You don't like Miro to hear the truth, you don't like to hear the truth, and you know very well that what I'm saying is true, and that can be verified, that's all easy to get, so the involvement of an advisor is strictly in the jurisdiction, colleague, Mr. President, it would be good that [[You can't hear the intruder.]] colleague Bulj let me get to the end [[President: but you're communicating...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83128	Comrade Bačić, just a little bit, and my colleague Bačić, it seems to me that you are communicating with your colleague Bul. ... It seems to me that you should stop communicating between yourselves and commit yourself. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder Bačić: I am constantly interrupted, constantly interrupted by my colleague Bulj.]] Please, colleague Bulj, stop and give my colleague Bačić the opportunity to continue [[Intruder Bačić: If you warn him to stop, then I will be very happy to stop and communicate with him.]] Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, [[But he's talking to me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83129	So, the law allowed for jobs to be preserved, the law allowed for business to continue, the law allowed a number of suppliers, which are generally Croatian suppliers almost entirely calmed down. The quality of the law was confirmed by the verification and by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia when it said that the law was in accordance with the Constitution independent of the fact that during its adoption and are now being drawn up as arguments, the individual lawyers involved expressed their doubts about the constitutionality of the law. The Constitutional Court has confirmed this law, which is also not less important, its validity has also been confirmed by the British judiciary in which the law is also verified and these days, as we have heard, the Emergency Administration Act becomes part of the European acquis as one of the insolvency laws. So much for the law itself. We at the HDZ Representatives Club do not want to cover any actions that do not comply with the law. But what we know, which is in the domain of HDZ, which is in the domain of the club of representatives and government, is that in any case, a job was done that allowed the rescue of the Croatian economy on the one hand and on the other hand made it possible for the company itself, the company itself to continue to function and to sign a settlement by July 10th. And if this settlement succeeds, then we can say that the law has succeeded entirely and that, regardless of how its insistence has run, that the law itself has won the result that was expected of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83130	Thank you. Now again, on behalf of the promoter, colleague of Nikola Grmoi, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83131	Comrade Bačić, I have the impression that with some nostalgia you're talking about MOST, I don't know if it's easy with HNS or perhaps with colleagues from the national minorities, but I'm feeling this murky nostalgia. As far as this argument is concerned, I was expecting it, and I got ready for it, and I know because for days you've been honking on Macana's orders, even our vice president at the Open, he had to read from his cell phone and his jokesbacher, so his colleague Panenic tried to kidnap it, but he was knightly defending Macan's jokebachter. So when you mention Ivica Ralkovic as some sort of argument, meaning what Ivica Relkovic is saying, Ivica Relkovic is not part of MOST for more than a year, you know for yourself that he is meeting with Prime Minister Plenkovic, Davor Bozinović, and there are also photographs of their warm encounters in the government of the Republic of Croatia, so that this man has no more relevance in MOST, he can say whatever he wants but everyone knows who is preparing it, he is obviously HDZ or Plenkovic's player, so that the argument that Ivica Relković is telling you is not relevant. As far as I'm concerned, I'm very well prepared. As for what you're saying about who the law writers are, we couldn't have known that. Is the writer of the law Šavoric, he is not in the transcript you speak of and mention all the time, the State Secretary and the Ministry of Justice. There is no Mr. Shavoric in that transcript. And this correspondence team that was published in the Index says it is the law of Šavoric and Šavoric is not in the media at that presentation where you speak where they lined up with Ante Ramljak, where there is Šavoric, Mr. Bačić? And I ask you a question, Mr. Bacic, who brought the lawyer Shavoric into the story? MOST has asked independent experts for financial analysis to prepare for a meeting with Ivica Todorovic, so that Ivica Todorovic does not sell hollow stories that Agrokor is in such a state or condition. And that's where the task of this financial group ended. She was not supposed to participate in writing the law but neither should lawyer Šavoric. The task, and also on the Committee on Economy, was taken over by Martina Dalic. She's responsible. The Ministry of Justice was only able to when it was received newly technicalally, even the Ministry of Justice consulted these legal experts, Mr. Miladin and the others, and of course, as it always does, you lawyers are always complicated, we need it in haste, I understand, but now the question is when these people are 26.4. are only then they are officially engaged in money in Agrokor, for money, now that we know it, the question is whether he refused these remarks because they were in a hurry to save jobs that were my interest, I believe yours, or were they trying to use that speed so that these remarks would not be appreciated that they could become paid advisers in Agrokor? It's nothing to me that they lined up with Anta Ramljak because they were part of this financial team, but why would they go, if they made themselves available to this country to analyze financial reports, why were they engaged in money in Agrokor? Why did they charge for that? Did this information, did Martina Dalic, who led the group, give them a statement of confidentiality, whose responsibility is that, Mr. Bacic, is that MOST's responsibility? And if you're talking about our responsibility, because the secretary of state just passed almost a law, so what is the Prime Minister's responsibility that must be controlled by both the Deputy Prime Minister and this whole process. So be careful what you say. If you go to transfer responsibility to the Bridge, so you'll roll yourself here in diameter, that no one else will rip it out. Who brought lawyer Shavoric into the story. These men who lined up there, there's no Shavoric. Is it Shavorić, they say themselves, that it is lex Šavoric. Is Savorić the author of the law? Who brought Shavoric into the story? Martina Dalic on the Committee on Economy says she didn't. If we trust a woman, you're not HDZ either, neither are we, who is it? Is the diameter Plenkovic? Is the diameter Plenkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83132	Thank you. Let's move on with the replicas, dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83133	You're changing your friend Grumo's slow statement, a slow show from what you started with. Now, after my speech, you realized that you were in the ruling majority for 15, 16 days. During those 16 days you knew, because she knew the entire Croatian public, and you see you follow the portals, you often read, who entered as an adviser, the first day of April 11 is mentioned, that the lawyer company Šavoric is already involved. So, you knew that, you knew everything you knew today. Only then did you keep your mouth shut, you didn't want anything to answer, and now you'd have a problem with it. And after that, when Alix Partners comes, Alix Partners hires, and the same counselors, but you need to tell that question to the Americans and not to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83134	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83135	Mr. Bacic, can you answer me, on what grounds, I can tell you that Shavorić wrote the law? Well, there's no Shavoric, I'm telling you in this correspondence, where the Ministry of Justice has him in this correspondence that was done on the Index, no one can know. But apparently you're showing up now that you knew, and you think if you knew that I knew. Whoever introduced Shavoric into the story, I repeat, he is gone, when it is mentioned that he compared Ante Ramljak, those who helped him, who brought Savoric into the story, that is the key question. And that's the question, which I'm afraid will shake the Prime Minister, seriously, but you're responsible for it yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83136	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83137	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grmoya, perhaps the answer lies in the response of Deputy Prime Minister, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Committee on Economy. She said that famous statement, my relationship with Shavoric is nothing. And she was defending herself at that point, and I didn't install it, and it's clear now that she was defending herself, and I didn't put it on, and someone forced it on me. Who can impose such a person on the vice presidents of the government? I'd say it's only the diameter of who has that power, that power and for that she could only defend herself, defend myself in a way I'm not guilty, someone else put it on. I mean not that she's not guilty, she's not guilty of that case, and what you're saying is an even greater danger, and that's... the diameter and why was he actively defending himself in terms of the hybrid war? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's precisely because they're feeling, given that he's probably got information, that there's a communication that could be dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83138	Thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83139	Comrade Panenic, I think things are clear here. Besides, Bacic himself admitted it, he says it's Americans, it's what Americans need. Well, the whole thing, nothing here would be controversial. The fact that the Minister has consulted some law-writing experts is that she should have done it a little more officially, done it in institutions, signed some credentials, but it's all her responsibility, it can't be my responsibility or your responsibility. It's her and the Prime Minister, who gave her his right hand. But what's problematic, when these people become official employees in Agrokor for these millions of amounts, which Croatian citizens can only dream of, they can't earn in 50 lives. What these people earned, that's the key. And there's the problem and you know it. We can talk now, I don't know what. That's the problem, and that's what we're talking about, and we're also talking to Mr. Šavoric, who doesn't have until this correspondence comes out, and only then do we see that he actually wrote the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83140	Thank you. Let's move on, Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83141	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't know who's going to learn from this debate, I don't know how much the public will learn, I don't know how many of us have learned, but I have to say, I have learned something. We see several speakers, two of them particularly prominent in honesty, eloquence, and fellow Grmoy and in how to attack or in how to defend, fellow Bunjac, for the time being only how to attack. They remind me, since I've been here a long time, of two of the early HDZ period, and they're both familiar to you. A fellow Grmoy reminds a little of young Shex, only missing legal stories, and a colleague of Bunjac reminds a little of Drago Krpin, and I must say that I envy one and the other, which has some kind of heir here in the Parliament. But let's cut to the chase. You know, at the time I mentioned these two, Shexes and Krpina, there was only one hill and one place that meant something in the shelf. The second one was respected, and that was worse than the one on Pantochaka and it lasted until the end of the '90s. It was both HDZ and state and army and all and good and what wasn't good. Meanwhile, the centres of power multiplied and the society became more plural, and Konzum from my neighborhood where I have the office of the Serbian National Council in Gajevo moved to the corner of Končareve and Savska and raised a large tall tower and became as important as the cathedral, if not more important. As far as everything and in any way, Nikola would like to find out, but it's much more complex than what it looks like. I don't underestimate his efforts or anyone else, but there's one thing I'd like to say. Now that that's gone, we can all talk. It is not a colleague of Grmoja, MOST thanks for opening the story of Agrokor, but Ivica Todoric as owner and his administration. All the better-looking people in public life in Zagreb's better cafes and restaurants knew that Agrokor ended the crisis in 2016, that in 2015 he was already in a crisis in different ways and that he had 60 billion debts and that he was in big trouble. So, the MOST didn't open Agrokor. Agrokor opened himself up. Trouble is for you and the HDZ at that point, which was delivered to you. Trouble for all of us that we didn't think was going to happen or the email thing because there's a lot of things that didn't know. So Agrokor opened himself up in the worst possible way per country, in the worst possible way by economy, in the worst possible way by government and by politics. It reached out to one of the mechanisms in which your party participated, in which HDZ participated, in which some others participated and sought a way not to explode it and not to turn it into a no-night nightmare, but an atomic bomb of the Croatian economy, a Croatian socio-economic situation. And by then Agrokor was in hands that were neither Todorovic nor Croatian. We now see it by the debts and by the shareholders, or by the believers. Therefore, if we want to be serious about this matter, we must save what is before us, and there will be opportunities to tell the story and about what was before. That doesn't mean that the one who can, who knows, doesn't need to talk today, who has the chance to do that doesn't need to talk today. Secondly, don't mind my fellow Petrov for mentioning him, not because I have something bad to say and even less to think about. He says, we trusted the vice presidents of the government. Well, she was trusted by others. Why do you think that others, including the Prime Minister, did not believe and did not work on trust? I'm asking why I know a few things about it myself. And what makes you think politics isn't about trust? And why do you think institutions don't rest, institutions don't rest on working on the trust of the other institution? That's not bad, that's supposed to be good communication and good relationships. What was bad was control, lack of control. As was the absence of control of the problem in opening the problem of Agrokor by the institutions that needed to control it, so was the problem here in control. I don't even question the trust of the former President of the Parliament, former Deputy Prime Minister Petrov, because that's what I would do. But what I'm questioning is the absence of control we don't have today. I was talking about him today. I'm not saying that speaking here, speaking to opposition people is not a control mechanism. They did. And I respect that, especially some. I respected the two of you, too. But we must be aware that this is harder than all of us. And as the prime minister said today somewhere that the overall problem of what Agrokor symbolized, not the worst side of the Croatian transition, but the most successful side of the Croatian transition, broke down, extradited with all its negativity to his government, to him, to us, to the Parliament, and do not have illusions, people don't look much better at you or me because they're saddened, and we have to change that. We can use a little bit of sadness, we can use obscenity in each other's poles, but we need to find a measure. As for requests for commission, opposition parties must find mechanisms to act and I understand that, but right now, the extraordinary commissioner and administration, the faithful and all of us need what Mr. Peru rightly calls, increasing and deepening psychosis. I'll tell you right away, when I saw Ramljak I knew you wouldn't give him three geese to watch over me, not because one would disappear, but because I'm not sure he'd come home with them tonight. Don't you mind that man. And that's what I'm talking about right now is a man who's putting his trust in me, and that's what I said. And as I keep saying at coalition meetings, colleagues and colleagues, let's get as far away from this process as possible. The state has been involved enough, let's step aside even as much as informing ourselves that, but to engage in analysis, in assessment, in judgments, not that my club and I wouldn't even want from any position. So, I don't think that commission and renewal of commission work and my club doesn't think that... working on a commission would help people try to bring this job to an end. A colleague today texted me after my free debate this morning to ask me when we're going to give the election. I told him, it's too soon tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow it might be too late, and it's hard to decide between. That's right, it's so hard for everyone so that only rhetorically we can think about it, and adventurously we can possibly want to take it. Agrokor is a serious and deep crisis of our economy and our system and we cannot repair it with the methods that Mr. Shakespeare thought, in the 1990s... and Mr. Kripna in the early 1990s that it could be created by the states. It's not working, so we can't do it right now. And don't mind me saying what I'm saying as someone who has more experience because I enjoyed listening to your speeches, you've prepared well. You've defended yourself well by selecting an attack. So don't mind us not being able to support your request to rebuild the commission's work. He wouldn't be good for what's necessary to do, he wouldn't be good for this country, he wouldn't be good for you or anyone else. Any opposition politician would rather come to power when the situation around Agrokor clears up as much, I'm 100% certain. It's past the time of those who wanted to show themselves heroically or cowardlyly. This was useful for some of the public doing their part of the work, no matter how or how it happened to them. Now it's up to us to make a consolidation, and that's what we want as part of the ruling majority. As for our fellow Bunjec who has compassion for members of national minorities who have no choice, we have choices and we choose quite a selection, only maybe we don't choose on a very wide field but we choose on a small field and something different moves. And when we need to make big moves, so we don't have to feel sorry for ourselves. You'd better watch out for your fellow living wallmates who will be supported by the referendum initiatives that are under way because I hear some of you are already saying that they will support these referendum initiatives. Thank you for listening to me and thank you for giving me the chance to listen to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83142	Now, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83143	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Pupovac, I would like to commend your reasonable approach, the fact that you have supported the publication of the register of real owners of the company, what we have proposed, I think it will be easier for you from your position to achieve it. Of course, I am sorry that you will not support the continuation of the work of the Assembly's Investigative Commission may agree with you that the settlement is a priority, but the settlement is a matter of the believers, and we here as politicians have some other tasks and obligations and towards Croatian citizens, of course according to what our task is, so in that sense, here I am sorry, but I commend it again, a reasonable approach and the fact that you said it was very important to go in this direction that we and our colleagues from the SDP have also indicated through the amendments, and then through the bill of law, and I expect that the government will be here no matter how it did not accept that it would go in this direction. And as far as preparation is concerned, yes, we've been preparing ourselves since we're also proposing, and we have to be prepared for what we're proposing ourselves, but I don't feel like I've attacked anyone here too much, and the debate that I've been having, in general, talked about, and I've practically made all of us responsible because in Croatia we have a situation that nobody is actually responsible for what they're doing so that my debate went in this direction, and I don't think I've even attacked my colleagues from HDZ, but I've invited them and even said that they have no reason to fear the Assembly's investigative committee. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83144	We have a replica of a esteemed colleague of the Pupovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83145	I'm not one to say DORH is going now, so let's not go with the commission, but I am one of those who think we should take a little care of hygiene in political space. If we start hitting ourselves hard with one mud, then we'll hit the other, so I went after it to recognize the best in this debate. I think that's why it's good, not only when it comes to the extraordinary administration, but also for this reason not to further contaminate political space, which means our living space, because it's going to come to our charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83146	Answer, no answer. Thank you. Then let's go to the next debate of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83147	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. So one very interesting debate. I have to admit that when people break up and there's a divorce and there's still a debate behind it, then there's always feelings. So at one point this separation between HDZ and MOST proved to be that I'm afraid there are still feelings, and when there's feelings then maybe there's something still there, so that one debate that was quite significant and throwing out of the first bench reminds me exactly and you know it, people are someone where there's no feelings get divorced neatly and everyone goes their own way, and where there's feelings still showing that emotion, that emotion from that debate reminded me exactly. But let's go back to the key topic and the topic of Agrokor. Agrokor's been growing for years. It was created in a way that was characterized and we can talk about partner or chronic capitalism. It was helped by all, and it was Agrokor Ivica Todorovic who also went through two stages and where the state allowed us to have a company that deals with production, processing and selling and something that from these discussions in the late hours or early hours we talked about Agrokor in both the free and in the name of clubs and everything else, of course learning should be not to repeat it for a simple reason, I like to think in pictures and always think in pictures and speak in pictures, there is my power Mr. Todorovic shown by the fact that when he bought Kulmer's court and when from that hill, from Kulmer's palaces he looked at all the citizens of the city of Zagreb and the citizens of Croatia and he told me who could, I am the boss of everything. And that's a fact. We absolutely have to be honest and say the following is a hot potato, and the potatoes were spoken of by another prime minister who hit Mr. Plenkovic's government and decided to make a decision, decided to move because he had no choice and was proposed to Lex Agrokor. From this pay phone you have different commodities, one of my commodities is that I was against the law back then, that I voted in the same way the entire assembly of this Parliament, so it was one committee that gave you the opportunity to speak in a certain way and to discuss it in a certain way. I understand, and I understand, I will be fair to the end, I understand these conditions in which the law had to be urgently passed, but there is something I don't understand, which I won't understand and what is the responsibility of the Prime Minister and of this Government, which is that the way it was solved, how real Agrokor is through chronic capitalism, that thus proved to have been done and lex Agrokor. That lex Agrokor was done in the same model, that it was done by a group of people who called each other a Borg group, which is a group that thinks uniquely and now that I don't explain what it is or how it is, and that the prime minister didn't take the opportunity to say that the end of such a way of creating a company is going to solve it differently, but what is read from the emails is the following: The same model by which Agrokor is real in the same model is a certain group of people who called the Borg headed by Mrs Dalic's former vice president of the government agreeing the law to satisfy her appetites in a short time. What kind of appetites were, as much as anyone satisfied the appetite, as much as it would be, we don't know at this point. Maybe someone in this assembly knows, I certainly don't know, but I know the fact that we're going to see the real effect of this law, the first phase will be July 10th, and the final phase will be over a few years when we see if the tails are pulling, not the tails pulling. It shouldn't be and should not be said that I know that it's really going to be bad, there's also no one who can say 10 July will be all right and everything will be perfect. The whole time we're actually dealing with all the other topics under that Agrokor umbrella, Agrokor, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're talking about as second-rate topics. And then what was done at one point? There's been an investigative committee. We don't know if an investigative commission has been formed before or if it's stopped working before. As I asked when was the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, so what bothers you in the Law on Conflict of Interest to be an extraordinary commissioner with all those mentioned in the Law on Conflict of Interest why not him? And there's no answer to that question, we didn't get an answer to that question. The same was the strong opposition of the ruling investigating committee from the moment the investigative committee was set up to try to show that it should not, that it is unnecessary, that it has nothing to do, that it will work, but at that time it was known that it would do DORH and USKOK that it could not work double. So it was never the subject of any investigative committee appointed by this Parliament to take over neither the DORH nor the USKOK nor any other institutions for the simple reason that the investigative commission is a political body and that discusses the political context and political conditions. The investigation committee was not given a chance, it was immediately defined who could be asked, when asked, tried to go to the very beginning, so the investigation committee did not have a chance. Why? Why didn't the investigation committee give him a chance to work? Why was this investigative commission not allowed to work from the start? The answer to that question has never been answered. We go under the line and see what we have, so we have Agrokor which is created on the crown capitalism, we have Mr. Ivica Todorovic, who from Kumler's court looked at Croatia nicely and smiled how well he earned it because everyone made it possible for him, and then he went to London and his London apartment, regardless of the big, little neat view of what was going on and laughing. That's what we have on one side. On the other hand, we have the fact that there is a problem that has arisen with Agrokora, forming or passing a law that we all call lex Agrokor even though it should refer to other things. The way she decided to get rid of herself has been decided by the same model that makes Agrokor real, so a group of people, privileged information can only be they, we have Mrs. Dalic who did it and we have an investigative committee that didn't give the opportunity to work, but was immediately interrupted and in the debate we see that this divorce between HDZ and Most is with a lot of emotions, so we'll see what's going to go on. The investigation committee is a political body, never his ambition could or could be to take over the role of neither DORH nor USKOK. We at the GLAS and HSU club think that there are grounds for the investigative commission to continue its work as we have voted for it, as we have opposed to stopping working, we also think it has the basis to continue with its work. And that's where we come up with another key topic, and that's the topic of responsibility. When you get any job, you must have responsibility and not a single job should be underestimated. When you get a job that after the leaves fall you collect leaves in your garden or park then you have to collect it as best you can. The same way when you get the role and importance of becoming president or prime minister of a government there is a responsibility. Your responsibility is for all ministers, your responsibility is for your vice presidents, and if I don't know what's scarier, if you don't know what's going on, that means you're not interested, that you're not interested, that you let someone decide on your behalf, and if you know how to hide and leave, I don't know what's greater responsibility. Our prime minister has this tendency to be real, and I'm going to use one ugly word, but I don't think of something nicer in these late hours, our prime minister has this tendency to play a little silly and make fools of us all together. Well, it's not like that. So the prime minister's responsibility is for a process that was a process that Agrokorom, I remember the period when we called him to come to the Parliament to talk about Agrokor and he didn't speak, so then we had a full-day debate at Vice President Dalic, so we're going to repeat and finish the picture again, the whole story about e-mails started on Wednesday, a week ago. On Wednesday, we heard that nothing was scary, too, on Thursday, there was a meeting with coalition partners who apparently convinced the prime minister that that was not the case. And I already said it once today, and I'm going to say it again, you know, in life it's at one of the times when you're alone, that's what one politician said, saying to you the worst is when you walk up the stairs and turn around, and behind you there's no one else. It's a scene that Mrs. Dalic had for you, I don't know if it was Saturday or Sunday, it was a wedding on the Altar homeland of Medvedgrad and the cameras were recording everyone coming down from Medvedgrad in groups, and Mrs. Dalic was going down on her own. Equally, one former minister on one television said at the end, the secretary went and the driver went, and the only one you have left if you have him is the dog. These are some fates and some times you pass. Likewise, it is the fate passed by by the vice president, former vice president Mrs. Dalic. We read e-mails in different ways, what I read from e-mails, and I read three things that got in my way. The first thing is we've been listening to the truth. The other thing is one boast, one disrespect to all those who thought differently, actually insulting all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who somehow had faith that some things would really go in the right direction. If you want to do something good and good in life, there must always be a number of people and your associates who question your intentions, or your choice, who asks why, rather than otherwise. If it's too much, it goes to another extreme, then nothing's wrong, but it always has to be. So even in those e-mails it was seen that there were people who were neither evil nor were, as the ruling people say, opposition in this House, so they just want to see something bad, who said, reconsider some decisions. And the third thing that bothered me in my emails, at one point the former Deputy Prime Minister said, today I was working on parafiscal charges, and also to justify why the Ministry of Economy exists and why she must be the minister. So these are the three things that were said in these e-mails in the context of how both Lex Agrokor was done and in the context of how the whole project was experienced. In conclusion, you can't do the same way that something was created and that you find wrongly created to solve, and that's clearly tried and kept trying. ... The lesson from this should be that we never have such an enterprise again and, of course, it is a very questionable decision and that is what has been questionable since the beginning, that the state interferes and that a private company becomes a company of systemic importance to the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was not created over a short period, but was created over a long period of time, but the same role and importance and work of parliamentary deputies is to question, question political responsibility, and in the context of this should be experienced and a commission which, let's be honest, is never given the opportunity to do the right thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83148	Thank you, too. It will be re-proposed by a respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83149	Dear colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, I thank you for supporting the restoration of the work of the Assembly's investigative commission. It is true that you have been on that line from the very beginning, and most of us here from the opposition, as many as 36 MPs have signed this initiative to amend the decision to set up a parliamentary investigative committee. The SDP initiative is also supported. We worked seriously on this Committee, we wanted the truth, and that's all we want. So I think things are clear here. That some run away from the truth about Agrokor, that some hide behind the success of the settlement, which is behind the fact that political space would not be contaminated. I think it's more important than that, as we stand up to the settlement, we don't influence ourselves, but it's the religious influence. I think it's much more important that we find out what was really going on in Agrokor, so that it never happens again and that all these questions that were asked here are answered. I don't see any questions as problematic, all these questions need to be answered and I don't think anyone normal should be against it. So I support this statement of yours, the fact that you have on that line that the parliamentary investigative commission must continue to work and I expect here, although some clubs from the ruling coalition have already declared practically all clubs, meaning both HDZ and HNS and Pupovac, unfortunately, who today supported one good thing, which is the publication of the register of real owners of companies. Unfortunately, he did not support the restoration of the work of the Assembly's investigative committee here, but it is up to us to insist on it from the opposition and to seek answers to all these questions. Of course, we must not only deal with Agrokor, nor must this be the only subject or topic. Croatia has a lot of serious problems at the moment. The government is not implementing reforms, young people are leaving Croatia and these are all the things that we will believe in in this coming time, but we will also not give up the full truth about Agrokor and I believe that you and your club will contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83150	Three replicas. First colleague of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83151	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Grmoja, MP Mrak-Taritash spoke of marriage between HDZ and said that there was an emotion team. I'd mention another relationship. So, that the respected former minister, Dalic, was a donor of the party Smartly, and that right now the Voice is in a coalition with the Smartly Party, so maybe we have a new relationship here regarding the relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83152	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83153	I've seen these attacks by the Split SDP, I think, and some have attacked the Smart Party. Yes, she was the minister of the party's donor, I think even Mr. Puljak boasted about it, with that donation, but good. People probably didn't know at the time, nor was this affair current, nor was the Deputy Prime Minister at the time when she was a party donor doing what she did. So in that sense, I wouldn't be particularly troublesome. What I find more of a problem with the party is that Martina Dalic was a donor of the party, that a member of the presidency is a man who was apostrophe here after the work of the Assembly's investigation committee as one of the key people responsible for the Immunological Institute. It's Academyman Vlatko Silobrčić. He's a member of the party's presidency, and the donation of money is completely irrelevant to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83154	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83155	My colleague Grmoy, since I haven't been here the whole time, but they've convinced me about the discussion that's been going on, there's one thing I can't figure out. So, I'd like you to explain to me this one schizoparanoid situation that is happening with our Prime Minister. The moment the HDZ, when asked by the Prime Minister, you knew everything, you didn't do anything, his answer was MOST knew everything. The second time they asked him, but Mr. Prime Minister, you were familiar with the Borg group, he replied: MOST knew everything. Then the third time they ask him, do you know those millions that were pulled out? No, no, MOST knew everything. To be honest, we're getting the hang of it. I don't care how much Mr. Plenkovic has mentioned us all these days. It's symptomatic that he's washing his face with us. That's enough talking about the face of them. Here, I beg you, explain to me the situation, where I'm lucky they listened to us the moment they were with us in government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83156	Thank you. It's like that joke: You don't wave, I got MOST in front of my eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83157	It's nothing weird to me. This shows only the impression of MOST in the Croatian public. Plenkovic actually wants to say, if MOST knew everything, so that's all right. So if MOST knew everything, then there's no corruption, there's no intransparency. So he's using us now, so we haven't been mentioned at all. He attacked the Living Wall and then he figured it out and he pumped the Living Wall all the time to bring down the SDP and then he realized now, so I need to pull out some Most, they're gonna help me wash my cheek. They're honest guys, anti-corruption fighters, they've been fighting local sheriffs, they've filed criminal charges against Todorovic, they've opened the topic of Agrokor, and now they might be of little use to me. But I think that's where he's wrong, and it's going to show this rating agency now, we're going to grow in ratings. Let them mention us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83158	Third replica, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83159	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. On the trail of what my colleague Grmoy said, we signed one value system IDS, Smart and Voice on Wednesdays just when they were e-mails. I was convinced that no one had noticed, that in the light of all these e-mails no one had noticed, but I'm glad you noticed and I'm glad you're commenting. However, I would still go back to this topic and this responsibility story and responsibility for the prime minister and responsibility in general for the whole process that is related to lex Agrokor and in a story where I still cannot understand and I will not understand why there was no opportunity for the investigation committee to proceed because it was known that part. And that's when the Dorh and the Jump were already said. That's when it's said as a mental noun that's clearly not a mental noun today. You were on that investigation committee. Why didn't you give her a chance to start working?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83160	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83161	Comrade Taritash, I can only answer that question by ruling. It's obvious what her intention was. As I said, while we were questioning Rohatinski, then information was published about the engagement of these advisors and subcontractors, in November. And that's past what, past the radar, and in February it's only becoming a theme. And I didn't mention this Amsterdam coalition at all, it was my colleagues, and I said it means it's completely irrelevant to me who donated whom, if you listened well to me, so in that sense I didn't trouble you at all. So I agree with you that you need to give an answer by ruling why they are afraid of the parliamentary investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83162	Let's move on. It is now up to IDS, PGS and RIA, a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83163	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, almost all day, there's been a debate about a very important topic, about Agrokor. We are witnessing that the ruling uses two concepts of why it is not necessary or why it is not necessary to continue the work of the investigation committee with two keywords. One is stability, and the other are jobs, and I'm going to answer that anyone who's in their right mind wants to be more difficult and supportive. However, our club wants to speak through four points about why it advocates and supports the continued work of the investigative commission, mostly because of political hygiene, but also the confidence in politics and politicians. And here I want to be explicitly clear and say that stability and jobs through the continuation of the investigative commission due to political hygiene and citizens' trust in politics today is something that is actually necessary, necessary and valuable and I hold that attention. I'll be very concise, and hopefully very clear why our club supports continuing the investigation committee through four points. First, the IDS has since the very beginning, and that is precisely what it meant last year, supported the establishment of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, when we supported the establishment of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, then we made it very clear that citizens need to know the truth and that citizens deserve answers to what was really happening and what was happening in connection with the Agrokor concert. Second point non-transparentity. We also point from the very beginning to the intransparentity of the conduct of the process and to the intransparentity of the public reporting because almost everything that is learned must be open, honest, learned from the media. Gradually, arrangements are revealed and only with great public pressure, but also us from the opposition. This form, I will call it non-communication, and on such an important topic of the economic importance of Agrokor, has led to citizens becoming more and more confused. The third point is a very problematic fact, a conflict of interest left out of the law, legal provisions on conflict of interest, which further casts a stain on the whole process. We had an opportunity to hear the said saying that it was missed because of the shortness of time, in no way can it be an excuse. We therefore expect the competent state institutions to establish all the facts about the legality of the conduct of the procedure so far. And a fourth, and according to us, from our club, no less important, lesson. And that's what she said in her previous debate, a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash in another way, but in the same sense, she said. Since this is a very important issue for the Croatian economy, our club has been stressing from the very beginning today that we need to learn from the Agrokora situation on the basis of which we should once and forever leave the current model of political and economic functioning of the state that has actually brought us into this situation. All previously said, and in particular the latest events, deny the ruling and point to the need to continue the work of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83164	Let's move on, now it's your turn, it's the last debate of the club now, the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83165	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am almost able to fully sign the debate between my colleagues, Sponze, and these four points, which also led the SDP club to believe that the Commission of Investigation should continue its work and that the Agrokor Commission must serve to strengthen transparency and accountability with the aim of preventing and combating corruption. This must be one of the lessons that will come after the end of the work of this Research Commission, and I really don't understand why someone has something against the creation of the Commission's work because transparency is what citizens are asking us to do. My colleagues and colleagues, the country's direction of movement is currently supporting 16.2% of citizens. That Croatia is going in the wrong direction is considered by 77% of citizens, supporting the government gives 31% of the births, the government is assessed by 2.2, and I believe that it is even more important that we show responsibility in the Parliament, strengthen the integrity of politics and politicians, and that through the work of this Research Commission we further encourage transparency and accountability because it is precisely the non-transparency and lack of transparency about the adoption of the Lex Agrokor account by the extraordinary administration of this company that led to public mistrust in the whole process. In addition, all of what Mrs Dalic did, with the knowledge of Mr Plenkovic, are not small spots as he tries to say, but are non-transparent, irresponsible actions marked by conflict of interest which leads to and in criminal acts which are currently investigating both DORH and USKOK. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, Agrokor, as I said earlier today, is a school example of vultureing in phase 3. In the first phase, Todorovic and his family were scavenging this company for their interests, after which, in the second phase, Ramljak's vulture's funds plowed what was left and then a known group of Borg came along with their twilight saga led and conductor's baton of Prime Minister Plenkovic, Mrs. Dalic and Ramljak scavenging what was left. As a result, this Commission of Investigation must continue its work and thus try to return at least partially the reputation of this Assembly so that its assessment is not 1.9, but to finally go towards at least some average three. In addition to this law and the continued work of the investigating committee, the law of the previous point on the prevention of conflicts of interest, what has to be urgently adopted, which the Council of Europe requires, and these are the ethical codes of conduct of parliamentary representatives and the ethical codes of state officials. It is not whether someone wears a tie, whether it comes in a suit or jeans, but among other things regulates and lobbying that nothing is currently solved in Croatia. Therefore, the first next step that is necessary is to adopt the ethical codes of conduct of parliamentary deputies and all state officials from which it would be clear to Mrs Dalic that what she did was not in line with the responsible behaviour of politicians working to prevent conflicts of interest and corruption. So, we support this request, we join it and the signatures. We're sorry that our MOST colleagues didn't listen to us and that maybe this wasn't the next week at the debate because maybe there'd be a bigger echo than the one that's got tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83166	Thank you. Now should be the turn of a respected colleague of the Bunjac. He's gone, so he's losing his right to speak, and that's when we came to the end of the debate. My colleague Grmoi, I assume it's final on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83167	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank you for staying here in the assembly until these late nights to discuss this proposal. I thank all the clubs and MPs who gave their support. It also means to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the Club of Representatives of the GLAS and the IDS Club, of course to their colleagues who participated in the debate and colleagues from the Living Wall who are now not there, who said they would support this decision to amend the decision on the establishment of a parliamentary investigative committee. And here, I call upon the ruling to change their decision until the vote. They have nothing to fear, I think no one should fear the truth as bitterly as it may be for some members or their party or for officials currently in the government of the Republic of Croatia. I think that only on sound foundations, on the truth we can build both Croatian society and the Croatian economy and in this sense I expect that this ruling attitude will change and that it will stop spinning towards the Most because here, we are not afraid of the truth. We are not afraid of the Assembly's investigative committee just as we are not afraid of e-mails or SMSs, we want everything that has to come out, to be published, to be public and transparent. We've had charges against MOST that we're behind this, behind e-mail releases, behind releases of this correspondence, and he says that on the other hand, we have claims that we're the one responsible for everything. So, there's an obvious presence, I'd say some logical misunderstanding between what they claim from the ruling majority, which the Prime Minister claims, but as we've now concluded through these replicas, it's in our favor, keep mentioning us. We are convinced that citizens will recognise the positive role MOST played in these processes, since the opening of Agrokor in the Croatian government, as counterpart Reiner reads from that jokebachter as if it were a bad thing. So that, after all, Mr Petrov said he lured Todorov into the government and thus opened the issue of Agrokor. And fellow Reiner reads it from the jokebachter in Open, so we have no problem with that, we have no problem talking about how we filed a criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic. What we have a problem with is that we need to discuss a little bit here, I think it's a colleague of Sincic's, but during this debate on the SDP proposal he said. This doesn't mean that Ivica Todorovic is innocent, that Ivica Todorovic has no responsibility for the breakdown of Agrokor, that Agrokor was not in a difficult situation, that Ivica Todorovic did not come to the government. He came and asked for financial help. The government should have reacted there, so that in this sense we must not allow all this to happen and what compromised the whole process, these advisers who were subsequently engaged in Agrokor, to be some sort of argument to Ivica Todorovic that someone had kidnapped him healthy Agrokor. Agrokor was not healthy, he was deeply ill, threatened to endanger the entire Croatian economy and that is true. That truth can go in favor of the government, but it's true and the truth has to be told. And what we want is the truth and only the truth, nothing else. So she went to someone for the benefit of the truth or for someone compromising. That's what I've talked about on many occasions. At a meeting in the government, Ivica Todorovic, in his demands, rejected Bozo Petrov while Zdravko Maric offered the possibility of lending through HBOR. But also, for the sake of truth, Ivica Todorovic refused and now former Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. That was positive, that move of hers. But what happened later, that's what's wrong and what's negative. So we don't have a problem with telling the truth, so you just profited from that truth by ruling. So we say, we don't know what you're afraid of. Why are you afraid of the council's investigation committee? Because you're sending yourself some kind of message that you're afraid of something, that you don't want something to come out, that you're hiding something, and there's no reason, there's no reason. And the citizens want the truth and what Pupovac says, I respect his debate and what he said, but we can't justify the fact that we don't want a parliamentary investigative commission by contaminating the political scene, that there's gonna be a lot of negatives about this or that. That's not the reason. Let those responsible be contaminated, who have some kind of political, moral, maybe even criminal responsibility. There will be new people, so we are not here in the Parliament irreplaceable. There's a lot, I'm convinced much smarter, much more capable than the rest of us sitting here. Well, my colleague, Beljak, said today that he would not support HDZ and what was happening, so he just never saw the Parliament, and I respect that attitude. After all, we also showed it when we refused to do so and when there were new elections of 12 of our representatives, also when we said we can't agree that Zdravko Marić claimed he didn't know anything, and here I am a colleague of Pupovac says so in Zagreb's more visible places everyone knew that Agror was in the banana. And the man who came from Agrokor who was Minister of Finance knew nothing. So exactly what Pupovac said was practically he put the most possible crime on Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, he said it was known by more visible places in Zagreb that Agrokor was in the banana, and the finance minister knew nothing. And the finance minister has been exempt from a decision in Agrokor, and the man in correspondence, the man at a meeting in the government, offers the possibility of lending through HBOR, goes after it independently to meet with Ivica Todorovic and you know... and change his statement. First, that the written statement to the committee that it was nothing, that he was not making any suggestions, that he was exempt, and then he came to the commission because he realized that he was not going to get away with it, that he was changing his testimony and that the commission was releasing him. And these are reasons why she had to leave Dalia Oreskovic to free Zdravko Maric from conflict of interest. And these are the things that the commission must examine, the role of Zdravko Marić in this whole process. And now it turns out that we were right when we thought he couldn't be the finance minister and that he had to leave that place. You do not need to be afraid of your colleagues, I expect that at your club, there was one good part of the MPs that was not present here during the debate to tell them what was said here and to bring a common position that you would support the continuation of the work of the Assembly Research Commission, and if you do so, I am convinced that both colleagues from the HNS and other partners will support the continuation of the work. So it's all up to you, and I hope by the time you vote, you change your attitude. I know you're tired, I know that this story about Agrokor would rather be completely shut down and that nothing is said anymore, that only stability, stability, stability is repeated, that by party meetings, meetings she repeats, go and spread optimism. I talked to you about how I was talking in the Parliament about how you were instructed to go and spread optimism and go to a Dubrovnik portal a little bit to see what's going on down there in our county, when the title Sanja Putica doesn't know about students or youth, spread optimism, and don't fall for pulsism. I recognized it before it was... a real Borg go and spread optimism. We need optimism, but real optimism, we need faith in institutions, we need to build a more just democratic society in which everyone will be equal on the market, and it will not, as counterpart Taritash said or I don't know who already mentioned it in the debate, we need to be... with the state to do business in Croatia, but we also need the truth and be bitter for some. I'm convinced that it can be cathartic, that it can affect that this society can be more orderly, that it can be better, and that I think to all of us here in the assembly should be in the interest. Now, don't just spread optimism, spread the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83168	Here's two more opportunities to spread the truth. The first is the honorary colleague Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83169	Thank you very much. A esteemed colleague of the Grmoi. I have to show my dissatisfaction that in the final word you've actually spread the story, and we haven't stayed on what's important. The important thing is to say, that a certain group of people, that a certain minister arranged to get the money out of the fallen giant he was, we'll see what happens after the deal, we hope for the best. And secondly, what I want you to say clearly and what must be a clear attitude, the Bridge or I or my colleagues who we have not participated in here, and it must be clearly established and that Mr. Bačić is certainly not funny to you at all, and that is the message that we should send here because I say this alternative communication that is spreading is definitely the confusion of the Croatian people and it must be clear who is to blame, when he did it and why his commission should determine it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83170	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83171	I don't think there's any need for the people to be clear. It is known who opened the topic of Agrokor, who filed criminal charges against Ivica Todorovic, it is known who is Todorovic at the HDZ meeting is not HDZ is known when we talk about other things then it is known, but we are not going to talk about which now. So it's well known I won't be accused of stealing intellectual property, so it's well known who filed a criminal complaint against Ivica Todorovic, who in the government said not to throw state money into that well called Agrokor, who asked for three commissioners, who said that Zdravko Maric was in conflict of interest, who was most active on the Assembly's Investigative Commission, who was preparing for him, questioned serious witnesses, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83172	Thank you. And the last replica of today's esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83173	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. He's a friend of Grumo's. I must say that I am pleased that in the final word you actually referred to Mr. Ivica Todorovic is equally Agrokor and neat from London looking and first on different networks in different ways reacted and now lately reacts as little and afraid to look at all this other things with a smile. But to be on the trail of what you said, real power gives knowledge, ignorance does not give power. And in the context of that, if you have knowledge, you have power, and in the context of that, I absolutely think that this investigative commission should continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83174	Here you go, replica last.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83175	Well, here's my colleague Taritash, I didn't listen to you very well, my colleague Bacic is still under the impression that we were well prepared for this debate, how we disarmed them with arguments. He's just asking me all the time who prepared you and how come we didn't manage to impose these thesis here in this debate, so I didn't listen to you, but I certainly support what you said, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-16-0.u83176	Okay, we've come to the end of the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we leave at 9:30 with the point of the Bill on State Property Management. Thank you and good night. Session adjourned at 23.11 p.m. We are going now, the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision to set up the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the circumstances of the Agrokor business concert, its position on the market today, the emergence of its business problems, and, in particular, its debts to suppliers and other creditors, the role of market regulators related to Agrokor's business activities and the circumstances that led to the activities of the Government of Croatia towards Agrokor and the proposal for possible solutions to the situation in which Agrokor was found, the proposals are 36 representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the debate is concluded. Article 6 The law on investigative committees requires that the proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal for that decision, let's vote. I find that with 15 votes for, 0 abstentions and 77 votes against, no decision has been taken to amend the decision to set up an investigative commission.
