ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66104	Thank you. I'd be talking about this, asking for a break of 10 minutes to talk about the seized property, the return.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66105	Thank you. A colleague, Son. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66106	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, I request a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA to discuss the state of the Uljanik Shipyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66107	A colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66108	Thank you. I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the cultural devastation of the City of Zagreb and the destruction of Zagreb's cultural club Apple.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66109	A colleague of the Ice creams.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66110	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Independent List Club on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66111	Okay. That's 9.34. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66112	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66113	A colleague of the Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66114	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club and regarding the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66115	Okay. It's already the usual six breaks, we'll continue at 9.50. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We continue with the work of a respected colleague and colleagues is the first turn of the Advocacy Club for Croatia and a respected colleague, Glasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66117	Dear colleagues, old subject, new details, return of property. People come every week, looking for a return of property seized in the former state. I said there's a correlation between prosperity, functional state and private property. That's not working out. A man came to me recently, said he would put a tent outside a residential building in Zagreb that was taken from him in '43. For years, his chateau was killed, camp, canal. Here's one example, another sad example. People are looking for a return of property in Udbina, it was handed over to the Court in Korenica in '97. years since then nothing. Total staging. He's talking to me about dejections. 4,000 more people are almost living in other people's apartments. What about agricultural land? What about the other properties that were taken away? I'm just gonna read a little list here. The factory of wagons and machines and bridges Brod on Savi, Podvinac skin factory Karlovac, factory Mustad, iron and steel goods Karlovac, city savings of the municipality of the Free Royal City of Zagreb. It's a '45. There was. Slavonia sawmill factory furners the boat on the Sava. Alpha d.d., machinery for milling Zagreb, Vukovar Kudeljedara, prediona d.d. It's a twist. Patria, paper processing Osijek, Varazdinska industry silk, Našička tanina and paroplina, first Croatian oil factory Zagreb, Croatia general credit bank, Ilica 25. Shop Lavoslav Fleiss gallery Vinkovci, Knebl and Ditrich flight equipment, all from the parachute onward, steam brewery Osijek, brick brothers Bohn Vinkovci, Petrolej d.d. Oil products Zagreb, Lanena industry Osijek, Smith and Mainer paper factory Sušak, Grizbach and Knaus photo equipment, forest grand jury company Belisce, Mercedes Benz General representation Zagreb. He was holding one Franjo Zerle. What happened to Franjo Zerle? Singer and Berkesh trade craft Bjelovar. He may know what it was, Mr. Manulic, and it was Mr. Ivan Jandrasic's store in Bjelovar, etc. Maybe Mr. Manulic knows what happened to these people? Here's the Ossjek iron lefty Apex d.d. Everything, they had branches in Germany. Portland cement Wednesday, etc. Armin Goldstein Vukovar paints and varnishes, Virovitica mold factories, press import d.d. Zabreb, Ignat Gross and son of Vinkovci iron goods etc. etc. No one is interested in the present Croatia. Why? Because we've destroyed people this, the memory has been destroyed. It's the worst kind of genocide is memoryicide. And we're honking here about some normal state. The Council of Europe has ruled that the seized property must be returned. It's called restitution. A commission was formed in Serbia in 2008. It works, here and they started paying off in 2012 or they got people who got damaged they got shares of state or cash money that were taken from them if they couldn't get back, and where are we? We're still deep, deep in communism and we're playing some kind of heavy democracy. And no one mentions the issue of private property. And what did we get after that failed social experiment? South received more money than almost all Eastern European countries in total from whom? What did she live on? Why don't young anarchists and hot socialists and Democrats say that? She lived on German compensation, lived on the replacement of credit from the west and money from a gaster who was more than the entire source of the failed state in the 1970s. Here's what happened. What did they produce? They got $32 million worth, then the value of the forty-year-old industry in Germany, Austria, as if it had been brought here. You have a roller in Split Shipyard that came here from Germany, it's still down there. Only Hungary paid $50 million in '54. A year. That's worth half a billion dollars today. What have the comrades done with it? They stole it, they stole it, there was a crash. And what did they produce? They couldn't produce a toaster, they couldn't make a toaster. And we got today, we got, we had a trabant, a south industry that couldn't produce a toaster. And that's the core of all our problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66118	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it is up to the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66119	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I took this break to talk about the state of the Uljannik Shipyard, or Oil Group, which today has a meeting of shareholders. In the Croatian story, things often fail not because activities are non-profitable, but because they are managed very badly. In a sad story of the collapse of Croatian shipbuilding, the reduction of the number of workers and the economic power of the sector, Uljanik was always a bright spot. Here's where it all went down, but that Oilman. Here's a positive example to follow by the end of last year. And I was personally shocked to hear from the cooperative workers when we went there and let their stories go public. And the painting of the Oilman collapsed as a positive story. Unfortunately, and there, local and regional policies with state policy have led to huge problems, so there have been cases of no co-operatives paid at the Uljannik Shipyard for five months, and there have been no salaries for workers from certain groups or groups. On the other hand, a week later, we left at 3:00. May, which is also part of the Oil Group. Eight months, the man co-operant didn't pay his workers. He had to sell his own assets, take loans, so he just didn't get paid for the claims. The problems are also witnessed by the review of Price Waterhouse Coopers since 2014, but they were largely ignored. That the company was failing to testify from inside the whistlemaker who transferred the president of the Living Wall Council Club to the County Assembly of Istria Damir Grunbaum as it was paid in the first half of 2017 2.3 million kuna bonuses and rewards to managers and administrations, and 2016. 2 million kunas for the same things, all during the time the state provided guarantees, it is obvious that the money from the state guarantees also went for management fees, until several months were paid by suppliers. That a bad guide testifies that there are huge claims The oil group that are not charged, somewhere billions and 300 million kunas of unpaid claims, and only from the state and related institutions 60 million kuna. This also testifies to Mr. Rosanda's statement by the president of the Board in an interview with the Voice of Istria where he admitted that some ships were even sold below the price. These days, a restructuring plan is being released to try to hunt in the cloudy, the first talk is about 1600 workers who are supposed to be fired, and now they're talking about 1100 and it's said that there will be production only on the island, that there will be a marina, a service centre for mega yachts, tourist facilities, and yet they won't. So it's done without a complete plan, without any vision, very not transparent, and it's not really clear where this whole process is going. I'm afraid that the old Croatian story that works on the termite principle will be repeated, we put a bad administration in something that can be profitable, which can have its place in an activity that exists for centuries, then it slowly devastates that company, when it is finished then we transfer it politically to another company, etc., etc. Today’s congregation aims at at least in the agenda that I have here, to increase the basic capital of society from about 100 million kuna to some 400 million kuna. This will reduce the share of what the state or state organisation has if capital increases occur, and the share of what workers have will fall. It should also be said that there has been a complete exclusion of the right of the championship of existing shareholders, a point of five today's agenda. I think it's clear what that might mean. I call from this place on all shareholders, workers, cooperatives, all those who can decide in today's assembly not to allow any plan or any move by the administration that would lead to a decrease in the number of jobs, which would lead to bankruptcy, sale of property or even shut down of shipbuilding. If the unions agree that the administration is incompetent, that it is not adequate, if Prime Minister Plenkovic and even the opposition SDP agree, then why don't we talk about changing management? That's all I'm gonna ask myself. I'm going to call from this place for a transfer of management, enough of this termite syndrome to move the administrations from one firm to another, and that the companies disappear, that practice has to be done more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66120	We're going to the Club of Representatives of the SDP's esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66121	Thank you very much. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a slightly different topic today compared to what we have heard in the past few days, but simply from this pay phone we have to talk about the vandalism of city authorities in the city of Zagreb over the cultural well-being of the city of Zagreb, and it is about the famous Zagreb club Apple which will celebrate 50 years of its existence in 18.2.2018. It is the oldest famous rock club in the city of Zagreb, on which Bandic took a stand for some reason. On Tuesday, so two days ago there he was accompanied by security guards of the city's administration came the machinery and began to tear down a terrace where concerts, I say, were held for 40 and more years by some of the most famous Croatian and Zagreb bands. What we see as a problem is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Culture, is not responding to something that should be reacted to. The apple was nothing, the apple was part of the city of Zagreb, the apple was grown generations and generations in Apple was a symbol of something that had disappeared in the last twenty years in the city of Zagreb, which is that a whole scene had disappeared, that the scene that had been created and built during the 1980s of the last century, about which films and series were recorded on HRT, but we did nothing, and in particular it was not done by the city authorities in Zagreb to protect the scene and to preserve clubs like Kulusic, like the Lapidari, which now try to turn off the light and which they want to suppress. And how pointless what the mayor of the city of Zagreb says is also the fact that he boasted yesterday that he invented the apple. So a man who's 60 and a few years old says he invented an apple that's been in existence for 50 years. This tells you enough who we are dealing with in Zagreb, with a man who does not understand the needs of his citizens, who treats the citizens who grew up on that scene in the 1980s, in the 1990s, among whom I belong on that subculture of the new wave, as though they were marginals from the edge of political spectrum, as our President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović would say. So Bandic sends this message to thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of citizens of the city of Zagreb, destroying the apple the day before yesterday that political marginals from the mockery are political spectrum. Now, Mr. Bandic, we can't let you do this, Mr. Bandic, enough of you to destroy the cultural scene of our city, Mr. Bandic, instead of giving 200 and some million kuna to your godfather to do the rotor on your way into town, instead of giving your friends tents for three months in Ban Jelačić Square, do not touch the apple. We don't want to give you an apple because we grew up in Apple as citizens of this town, and we left, and the apple is a part of us. And I'm calling on everyone who's looking at this today to support the gsk apples in efforts to continue the program there, a program that resisted pressures for 50 years, resisted the main strema, and there when you get in, they're sure they won't hear the tunes that are now shaking from who knows which clubs around the city where some of our neighbors would probably feel comfortable, but the apple resisted the main strema and should continue so on. Once again, congratulations on the 50th birthday of the apple, the gsk apple, and I recommend that Bandic finally stop acting like the rotten apple of the city of Zagreb. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66122	We're going to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66123	Thank you. Today in the Croatian Parliament, a show will be arranged. The director sets up actors, if it goes wrong, the actors will be blamed, if the show succeeds, the director will get Oscar. A lot of political economic Oscars have split in Croatia for the last 25 years, only drought has been created for the last 2 years, actors have started getting desperate grades. But today, we will have two actors on the Parliament Committee on Economy again. We're going to have Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic, and we're going to have Anta Ramljak, Commissioner of the Government in Agrokor. And the outcome is known if we're going to ask the directors. The outcome is known because in controlled conditions through a series of questions raised that create noise, a series of answers without answers, with the emphasis of the rescue engagement in Agrokor without concrete, clean information that has been happening in the last half of the year, people who are watching it will not be able to draw absolutely no conclusion and will ultimately just define so none of you here is normal. That's the director's goal, and now we're going to see if that's going to go after the director's hand or eventually the actors are going to be blamed for the downfall. Sometimes silence says 1,000 words, and today the Prime Minister, not today but the last two weeks, would call it a murky defense because here he is for almost two weeks, saying enough that they know they've messed up pretty much in Agrokor. In front of Andrej Plenkovic, there is a decision he is obviously not ready to make again. That's why he's been commenting on the whole situation with one sentence these days. As he said, counselling wages are okay, they're a little ethically questionable, but they're okay. I wonder what kind of qualification that is, a little ethically questionable? Or what measure is that? It's either ethical or not ethical. It can't be a little ethically questionable. Is these euphemisms like "little", "questionable", actually helping the Prime Minister to somehow maintain the balance that in the end no one is to blame for everything that happens in Agrokor or for the wolf to be full and all the sheep in number even though I think that today the entire Croatian public knows and feels that only the wolf is fed in this story. How about I use this sentence of his next time? Someone holding a ladder to a thief, a little ethically questionable, but it's allowed because he doesn't physically steal. Have we as a nation come into a situation that absolutely nothing is neither sacred nor honorable nor even at a time when someone justifies legal thieving, absolutely no one reacts and that justifies it in a way that does nothing and moral and ethics? That legal thief is okay, he's a little morally ethically questioned, but he's allowed, so he's okay. You see that in the Most wouldn't go away. And that's why MOST isn't in the government. MOST would not allow organised money extraction from Croatian companies directed by Škegra, Linic and others to take place. MOST has warned you a million times about intransparency, you haven't done anything at all. Most wanted an investigative commission, you shut it down. But no wonder you're shutting down and closing down everything that would help people understand how things are, so the other day you started closing the archives that MOST opened nine months ago. It's clear that the Prime Minister is trying to get out of this situation with a murky defenseless way, we're all fine here, nothing happened, but there are only two correct options for the Prime Minister. Or he'll come out and say I didn't know, I'm giving out cancellations, but then it's a problem because he's gonna have to show that he's constantly more into European personal ambition than he is in Croatia, because he didn't commit himself to Croatia, or then another situation in which he's going to say, I knew, I'm guilty, I'm resigning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66124	Thank you. We're now going to the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, so today the only thing that exactly is colleague Petrov of what you have said is that today at 10.00 p.m., the thematic session, at 12:00 p.m., I apologize to the thematic session of the Committee on Economy, where you will be able to ask the question and vice-presidents of the Government and the extraordinary Commissioner. So, all the dilemmas, all the questions, all the charges that are being made, will be put in place by the person who at this point in front of the trade court conducts the procedure... Contracts to complete the restructuring process of Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We said on behalf of the HDZ Club, that the Law, which you have supported, I hope that you have not forgotten that the Bridge has also supported the Emergency Administration Act, created assumptions to stop the failure of the largest private company in Croatia, to prepare a settlement, in order to continue the work of all companies in the system, as well as numerous suppliers, it seems to me that more than 2300 employed around 150 000 employees, i.e. more than 11% of the total number of employees in Croatia. And I remember that, if I remember correctly, you supported the Bridge, because you also then estimated it to be a law that can stop the collapse of the Croatian economy. And behind that is HDZ. All that's going on out there, if anything is illegal out there, that's why there are institutions, so here I am calling you, that, instead of this pay phone, even though you have the right to this pay phone, everything you consider illegal, you file criminal charges. You've done it before, when it comes to Agrokor, to do it now. And in all that is illegal, you will have HDZ support, HDZ will not defend anyone, nor is it in the interest of HDZ to bear political damage to anyone's illegality. And we've said that a lot of times about this pay phone. But also, the occasional attack, first of all the diameter or the MPs here, speaks more of you than of us. So, today at 12 o'clock, all you have, ask questions, we give you full support, to question all the controversial things within the Agrokor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66126	And finally, the club of GLAS and HSU representatives, the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66127	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You learn everything in your life, there are all kinds of us. There are those who simply make decisions, there are those who make difficult decisions. There are those who respond to the first, those who think. They have those who speak very loudly; they have those who speak silently. However, people have dedicated themselves to working with those who suit them, but when you take over the role and responsibility of one government's president, when you take over the role of diameter, then you have no committee and you have no right to do and you have no right not to work. Likewise, you know, kids are very inclined to cover themselves with soap, close their eyes and think things don't happen. Now, our Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, covered himself with soap and very much shrubs, because if he grumbles for a long time, maybe things work out on their own. There are things in life that are solved in themselves, but some don't. No, so long ago, we had a mayor, who abused his wife, so she went and reported him, and then she talked to him, and then the Prime Minister, under the pillow, shriveled hard, when he got his head out, then he got a slap from that same mayor, I just don't know if he got a stronger slap on his wife or got a diameter, but the mayor got, the mayor said, I didn't get in HDZ, but the mayor still did. And that's how the stories ended, and that's how the Istanbul Convention develops. The same way you have in life the comodity to come for this pay phone, so say, I voted against the Lex Agror law and today I think the same thing I thought about back then. The truth and God, as someone who lives in this country who cares, I wanted that law to succeed. But in life you have a win win situation you have bad, bad situations. There are two choices. One choice to thank an extraordinary commissioner, but for whom the government has decided and says, I'm sorry after 10 months you haven't done anything, so let's try someone else, or to deal with this, until when it lasts. However, the diameter does not have the right to fail. The diameter has no right to be under the blankets, to glare and let some others go out and talk. Responsibility is a diameter. I'm using this pay phone, and I'm just asking for the diameter, remove the blanket or the panel under which it is, open your eyes and face reality, so no matter what it is. Not every time in your life can be all win, win, but statehood is and say, I was wrong, state responsibility is to say this is bad, state responsibility is to say, now it's enough, let's do it another way. It's not the state's responsibility to release the vice president, so as it may be. Therefore, the invitation to the example, as we made a written call to the crossing last week, made him laugh only. Croatian problems are being solved in Croatia. Come to this pay phone, if you were wrong, say, I was wrong, I'll move on. But to stare and pretend that things will be settled in their own way, no one has the right, but the diameter at least.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u66128	We're done arguing after the break. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I don't understand what that means. Please behave in accordance with some standards... Therefore, we are going to the agenda, Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme 2017-2020. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Consumer protection laws. The first hand in the air, dear colleague Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71272	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here, let me briefly explain the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period until 2020, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits on the basis of Article 130. Consumer protection laws. This is a strategic document setting out the main objectives and priority activities in the implementation of consumer protection policy, and the main objective of the programme itself is to strengthen the consumer to become an active market participant and to improve the integration of consumer rights into sectoral policies. On this trail, we want to achieve the following, therefore, and to improve the legislative framework on consumer protection, to ensure effective market surveillance of the enforcement of regulations, more intensively educate and inform consumers and consumer rights traders alike, to improve cooperation with consumer protection organisations, and to ensure that consumer complaints, disputes and improvements are resolved more quickly and efficiently, both at the central level and with institutions involved in the implementation of this policy and with the bodies of local and regional administration and self-government. In the part of the promotion of the legislative framework, this programme foresees new legislative solutions that follow modern forms of trade, so that we will certainly, in part of the acts to be adopted during the period covered by this programme, work on the implementation, that is, the development of an implementing framework for a regulation dealing with geographical blocking and indiscrimination on the single market, particularly taking the form that the increasingly widespread form of trade is on the Internet. So, in a digital environment. Furthermore, in December 2017, the EU adopted a Regulation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection rules. The start of application of this Regulation, therefore, as an act which is directly applicable in our national legislation, is January 2020. However, what we do is, therefore, adopt an implementing regulation that will ensure that inspection authorities cooperate precisely effectively in the event that a trader in one Member State violates the rights of consumers in another EU Member State, i.e. when these injuries are affected by more markets. This monitoring of the implementation of policies, i.e. regulations protecting consumer rights, is certainly one of the most important components of consumer protection policy itself. And it is therefore important to ensure, therefore, that citizens as consumers have a high level of protection of their rights, and, of course, traders also have conditions for fair competition. This programme places a special emphasis on education and on the specialisation of the Market Inspectorate just so that it can be as effective as possible and as best as possible to carry out the tasks that are in its jurisdiction. Furthermore, one of the priority issues in the surveillance section is also product safety. To this end, the priorities of this programme are to monitor the safety of products on the market, strengthen the control system and monitor the implementation of regulations and prevent the entry of insecure products, which are thus produced outside the common European market in the Republic of Croatia. The third important segment covered by this multiannual consumer protection programme is information and education, and in this context also strengthen cooperation with civil society organisations representing our citizens as consumers. Here I would like to say on this subject that the ministry as the holder, the horizontal consumer protection policy in the last quarter of 2017 organized a cycle of informative events in five Croatian cities in Zagreb, Varazdin, Rijeka, Split and Osijek during which, in direct contact, it presented consumer rights to citizens but also the instruments available to them for the same rights. A cycle of professional education intended for, therefore, to the very associations of consumer protection has been launched. Therefore, segments of the Consumer Protection Act itself, segments of inspection supervision, responsibilities or provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations which regulate the material disadvantages of the product are presented. Then the question or area of food labelling and safety and many other topics that are of interest, both for associations and for our citizens, thus informing them. This type of cooperation and education will continue during this year and the following years, which are also covered by this programme. Further cooperation with associations will continue through the provision of financial support for their work. They are namely active as consumer counselling centres. Over the past 14 years, and 13 years, the ministry has also allocated certain funds from the state budget to finance the work of a producer protection counsellor. And on this trail through the next period covered by this programme, we want to include stronger units of local and regional administrations and self-government in such forms of support to the consulates, and this trail is currently under way with talks with associations representing the counties and cities. In addition, it is envisaged to continue to educate traders in order to understand more closely the legal framework for consumer rights and to prevent breach of the rules on their part. The section of information and education is definitely marked by the World Consumer Protection Day, which we will mark during this week not only on 15 March when the World Consumer Protection Day is happening but also during the week from 8 to 15 March where we will again hold educational events, informative workshops for traders in collaboration with HGK and for our citizens as consumers. One of the main tasks in implementing this policy is to provide citizens with information as easily as possible and accessible as possible. In this context, a unique telephone will continue to be available, so a phone for consumer complaints or consumer rights information that has been working for a number of years. It is also planned to further improve the central information system of consumer protection that enables citizens to electronically or request an explanation of the rules relating to them or to request advice from a consumer protection counselling or to provide guidance on the application of market inspection and, according to that application, the inspection is obliged to come out and determine whether there has been a breach of consumer rights. What we want to do in part of this system is to improve it technically through the introduction of new statistical categories that will allow for a more detailed analysis of consumer complaints, which will help us to understand priorities and policies in the consumer protection part and that will allow for the best and quality exchange of information between bodies that form an integral part of that central register. It will continue to work and the European Consumer Centre, which also supports the European Commission with its own resources, which provides consumers with assistance on the difficulties encountered in cross-border trade. Further promotion of alternative consumer dispute resolution is also foreseen, as this is exactly the way dispute resolution is much more flexible, much more economical than court proceedings, is carried out in a less formal environment and ultimately represents a lower cost for both consumers and traders. In 2017, the Ministry of Economy provided financial resources of HRK 350 000 for five notified bodies for alternative consumer dispute resolution and on this trail we continue to cooperate with them just to promote these forms of dispute resolution between consumers and traders. Finally, I would like to say that the programme also provides for activities other than the Ministry of Economy and many other bodies involved in the implementation of this horizontal policy, including the bodies of the state administrative, regulatory agencies, business associations and others, in order to improve consumer rights. Following all this, I propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt a consumer protection programme that we plan to implement over the next three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71273	Thank you, too. We have 11 replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71274	Thank you very much, President. Dear secretary. We're talking about the National Consumer Protection Programme, the state of the world is we're currently witnessing as at the time of the Wild West while Sheriff Doc Holliday was in those times is the fact that here we're just going to start from the teleoperate and their services where they don't have in their country where these rights come from, in fact, where the damages are caused by great damage and costs to people, so to citizens and local self-government, they're using our sewerage, i.e. a teleoperative which is essentially not paid by the right of service to either private or public persons. However, very simply in their contracts in font 8 where they write when a contract with teleopers is signed, they write the font very small that they simply can't see what the older person says in those contracts, they come up with big profits. But they have no right to themselves, we're talking about security in their countries where it comes from, I'm talking about food safety. Who controls food safety? Who controls those who call consumers on the phone, citizens to buy from them products? It says here HACOM, that HACOM will report to the Croatian Parliament instead of having their head of HACOM go to Dubai and watch the grass resuscitate during the summer. The absolute Croatian consumer is unprotected on every issue, not just about food. You are referring to the EU, in the EU, the product that the same manufacturer does is much more quality under the same brand, much cheaper in these countries, and we have a much worse product that we do not control. Is the GMO product, did it come simply not control anything and we have the wild west. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71275	Thank you. Only one doc hollyday correction wasn't the sheriff, he was a gambler and a gunman. You want a reply to the replica? You got it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71276	I'd like to say thank you very much for your observation. So certainly, the area of teleoperate is one of the most important areas in which consumer rights should be protected. The Ministry is currently working on an analysis of consumer complaints and is exactly one area where we see that the largest number of complaints from consumers to the behaviour of teleoperators and is certainly one of the objectives and implementation of this national programme. As regards food safety, food safety, with a note of course that the Ministry of Agriculture is competent and very involved in the implementation of the policy or control of the food market. I would like to say that indeed the recent analyses have shown that food quality is not identical in the packaging of the same manufacturers that place their products on the Western markets and on the eastern markets, and in this context it is necessary to strengthen exactly the inspection supervision of the market, which is, as I said, one of the objectives and this national programme. HACOM has established a register "Don't Call" as we know, where consumers can ask that their phone numbers are not used in terms of marketing messages, and I am sure that the president of HACOM also has a chance to expose statistics, so far according to my findings, there are around 29,000 registered numbers in that register where our citizens have expressed their desire not to use their numbers in terms of promotional messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71277	Another replica, dear colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71278	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary Zigman, there is one association, called the Franak Association, which has achieved huge results in consumer protection, has received a ruling against the changing banks, and it is expected that soon a positive verdict as regards the CHF currency clause, because 7 countries in the EU environment have received such convictions, so the CHF currency clause is harmful in most of these countries, and your ministry does not want to give a recommendation to raise collective suits with an explanation that Franak should be taught under the auspices of other associations, in alliances that it is so desirable, however, neither by law nor by any directive nor by any similar provision that it should be. And you are one association that is so specialized, closely specialized, with 28 500 members, a association that has so far spent 500 000 kuna on consumer protection, has not spent money from the budget, such a association you do not want to give a recommendation to enter into a decision under the Consumer Protection Act and to be legitimateized for protection, for collective protection in a court of law. It's sad, but it's not weird because the minister who runs your economy told me personally that she believes that before the amendments to the Consumer Credit Act at the end of 2013, the banks had no way of agreeing on a variable interest rate in the right way, so it's natural that they would then solve it by their decision. This is not true because the Law on Mandatory Relations makes it clear how contractual acts must be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71279	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71280	Thank you very much. Yes, we've actually already communicated about this, as you know the regulations at this point predict that alliances have the right to file collective charges. We do not remove the possibility of further discussion with you, and as far as the statement by the minister you quote is concerned, I think that's where you asked the parliamentary question and also received an answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71281	Comrade Maras, it's your turn now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71282	Thank you very much. When we talk about consumer protection, I am here from this place, and I am asking you, Madam Secretary of State and your Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Dalic, to protect consumers in the Republic of Croatia who are now in an invisible position. Not only consumers but also workers in Konzum who have received incredibly difficult working conditions, one worker covers over 200 square meters of shops and runs from the counter at the cash register to collect or issue goods in the Konzum shops. And all for three and some thousand kunas. How many consultants of Agrokora, also a friend of your boss Martina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister and Mr Ramljak, Commissioner of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in Agrokor, earns less than an hour? I've calculated it correctly. In 35 minutes consultants of the Texo Menagment earning the salary earned by these workers and workers in Konzum running from the counter on the register and in the opposite direction. 35 minutes a man needs to earn it on his day of work. So if he's late for work, he's already made 30 minutes' pay for a worker or a consum worker. I ask you to protect consumers because consumers suffer because of such and such circumstances in Agrokor and do not have the protection they should have in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71283	Replication response, here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71284	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately, I have to say that the replica is set up or expressed outside the context of the national consumer protection programme itself so that I could not look back on it in substance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71285	Dear comrade Bunjac, fourth replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71286	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary Zigman with an associate. Here we also debated mandatory pension funds yesterday, so we saw that these funds, or societies, are spending irrational money paid by pensioners, of course, as a contribution from their salaries, so I'm interested in why the representatives of pensioners on the supervisory boards of these companies can't be seated, perhaps that money could be better managed, and in this way consumers might be protected as well. I am also interested in what your ministry does to mark food, since there is a legal regulation that should be used in practice for a long time, here in 2005 there is an obligation in the law of GMOs to mark GMOs. However, it is now 2018. This food is still not marked, and it is already marked in both Serbia and all neighbouring countries, let's say Slovenia etc. So what you're doing is that the laws are being implemented that are already in force, which means, not what's yet to come in the future. I'm also curious to know what you're doing on the labelling of the rest of the food. And why, for example, in stores, there are no bar-code readers, where a customer could immediately find out what kind of goods he buys without reading those miniature letters, which he can't actually read with a microscope, let alone a common eye. Could you, as the Ministry of Economy, offer consumers a computer program, which could perhaps be installed on mobile phones where they could read bar codes, so they could soon find out about shops and elsewhere where to buy goods, what kind of goods they really buy. But first of all, I mean food. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71287	Thank you. You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71288	Thank you very much. As regards the Law on the Supervisory Boards of Pension Funds, this is certainly the subject, when the regulations, relating to the management of pension funds, are discussed, therefore, which is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. Well, I invite you to take that opportunity to put the subject on the agenda. The labelling of GMO food, therefore, rules in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, however, since consumer protection is one horizontal area, it implies stronger inter-resorship cooperation, it is certainly one of the parts and priorities on which we will actively cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture, especially in the part of informing consumers about food quality. And what I would also like to say is that during this world day of consumer rights that I have announced in the opening speech, we will prepare and make available to our citizens a manual for consumers that will bring together the most frequent complaints, questions, so that, in the most accessible way, they can, in one place, easily know what they are interested in. And certainly these other communication channels are regularly available.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71289	Thank you. 5th replica, dear colleague of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71290	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question as to how much in the Consumer Protection Act we are limited by EU directives, so, given that Mr Bunjca has continued to question the font level of letters that we have prescribed for certain products and do you have any comparisons on the law in developed EU countries, with our law, on consumer protection, are they at least the same? And I'd just notice that we're discussing something that 28% has already been practically through, so this applies to the period 2017-2020. We are 2018. Here's just one remark, but this would please, if you could make a comparison between the laws of developed European countries and our laws here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71291	Thank you very much. For a systematic analysis, it would take a little bit more time. We can certainly in that sense answer your inquiry as a competent resort in that communication. What I can say in principle is that regulations, i.e. directives, are being transposed into our legislation to protect consumers. Therefore, those Member States have the same obligation. Therefore, what is prescribed in the directive, they have an obligation to apply, i.e. to adopt domestic legislation. In particular, the size of the letters, in the case of food, is that the size of the letters, indeed something smaller than the rest of the products. As a rule, it is not prescribed, so here we can really take a step in terms of better, better quality consumer information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71292	6 replicas, dear colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71293	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome the secretary of state and the co-worker. And I welcome all efforts, any government, parliament, to protect consumers. The consumer is weaker... For example, in that contract, in relation to the trader or service provider, and should be offered assistance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today, when we talk about consumer protection in Croatia, we are not just talking about the protection of consumers of Croatian, Croatian traders, distributor producers and others. Anyway, since we have a common European market, we're actually talking a lot more than that. What interests me is what the Government is doing and whether it is working on equating the quality of products throughout the EU, including those that are coming to our market, which are equally marked by us and, let's say, in Italy, Germany, to another country. So, de facto, what is trying to promote in the European Parliament is our representative Biljana Borzana, because I think it is of great importance for every consumer in Croatia. In this context, of course, the codes found on the labels that are glued to food or on the packaging of food should also be considered. If we have some letter E and a number of numbers there, which should indicate whether there are additives, no additives, whether they are healthy, not healthy, like this, it doesn't mean much to consumers or simply don't have that to decrypt certain mechanisms. And please tell me one more thing, in preparation for this consumer protection programme, whether the ministry has made an analysis, how many of our traders who sell goods are on the line, and you mentioned that it is precisely one development now in this direction, digitally how much they are really in line with regulations and some modern practices in the EU, and how much they are trying to manipulate practices, i.e., cutting information to consumers, which are necessary for consumers to really, informedly order the product to make extra profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71294	Thank you. Here's the secretary of state. Would you like a reply to the replica? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71295	Thank you very much for asking. This is certainly the case with regard to the safety or quality of food placed on the Western and Eastern markets, because in nature it is the difference and these are the research done by Mrs Borzan and showed. There is an initiative at EU level in which Croatia also actively participates to strengthen inspection supervision so that the same quality of the product is packed in the same packaging. I have to say that one question is the safety and health of food, and the other is the question of quality itself. Therefore, these products are not faulty on the health issue of food. However, in terms of their quality, they are quite different when they are therefore placed on, in particular, our market. That's what this recent analysis showed. And there, therefore, we will make efforts to strengthen consumer inspection and information on possible such behaviours by traders. What I certainly think is that these research is positive and good because it is in some way putting traders in a position to see that such practice is represented, and I believe that traders will also take care of their reputation and what they place on the market and will not resort to that practice as it has been so far. As far as the trade line is concerned, therefore there is a Consumer Rights Directive covering both this segment and it is, therefore, applicable in our legislation. We haven't done an analysis to show whether these rules are respected or abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71296	Now let's go to line number seven, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71297	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, this material we got today has a very ambitious name. It means a proposal for a national consumer protection programme, but I have not seen in it precise provisions that would justify such an important document. Why am I saying this like that? In Croatia, the consumer is threatened as follows, threatened by health, pocket and dignity. If you came here with a report on the state of the food market, how many people were getting better, why don't you follow the traceability of food we'd have something to discuss competently. It's not there. There's no record of sanctions on who's being punished, who's been denied the license and what's been shut down. On the other hand, however, a pocket has been compromised. Wherever our citizens turn, someone slaps them in the pocket. And on the third hand, dignity is at stake. I'll brief you on my case from a few days ago and hundreds and thousands of people are to me, so I see by what they have confirmed. So it's not just my case. It's a Telecom case, specifically HT. I couldn't make contact for nine days. You come there to report they're throwing you from side to side. They're mostly people who I got the impression were working for a certain time. When I asked for it to be printed, the record of my remarks said I couldn't get it. Imagine I can't get that in case of a lawsuit, I don't even know what I've filed. That paper goes somewhere, you can't hear anyone afterwards, see. No one apologizes to you. But at the end of the day when they finally turn you on and ask you with a smile if everything's okay for you to say. So to tell you the truth, I don't know why we're even discussing these programs. It's nice to discuss this, but let's not formally discuss it. Let's finally get busy with Croatian consumers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71298	Thank you. There's no response to the replica, so let's go to the next one. Dear colleague Alfirev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71299	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State. Well, here I will point out, therefore, by looking at this National Consumer Protection Programme in the chapter of other stakeholders under the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the areas of consumer protection in the area of the environment and water management, and there is no word at all about what we all find to be the most important area, area and most important resources within the area of this ministry, the area of energy. Does this mean that the government in the Consumer Protection Strategy has forgotten 2 million electricity consumers, hundreds of thousands of gas consumers and central heating, oil suppliers, etc. Is that what it really means, and it actually seems that the Ministry of Economy lost energy in this reconstruction of the government, and thus energy consumers, and the Ministry of Environment has not taken over. Because we often hear in fact that Minister Coric is on every occasion saying there will be no electricity, gas, water collection. And how this can be believed when, in fact, there is not a word for consumers in this strategy either, and also for energy consumers, in fact, almost without even having a bearing on this portfolio. Is there something the ministry actually has to say about energy poverty, about vouchers, divisors, electricity, etc. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71300	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71301	I would fully agree with you on the future programme foresees, so the activities of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency HERA that go in the direction, so informing consumer education related to the provision of electricity and other consumer rights in the direction of preparation and certain applications that consumers will be able to use in a proper and timely manner to inform themselves of their rights and opportunities, so that this area is represented in the programme itself. Of course, your assessment may be that it is not sufficiently represented and that something else should be done, but we will certainly keep in touch with and in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment as a competent ministry for this area stronger and promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71302	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague, Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state. You said you held five consultations in five cities and mentioned the role of local self-government in that regard. I have to tell you here that I don't think you've achieved anything and that you won't achieve anything, so I suggest and advise you to use television, radio, internet counselling because this is just a waste of time, walking around the field and actually covering a very small number of citizens in that part. And citizens are definitely not familiar enough and institutionally not protected enough. If they were sufficiently protected institutionally, then they would not be forced to organise themselves into various associations to protect themselves from various influences on the side. I have one question if you happen to have any kind of indicative answer to that. Last year, that package of tax reform laws was passed where there were a lot of VAT cuts on re-promaterials in agriculture, food products and other products used in broad consumption, so I'm interested in whether you have any idea whether there was a decrease in the prices of these products or whether prices remained the same and consumers are paying the same price? Let's say this is one of the indicators that could show the same thing that happens especially in that part of it you also said that the goal of of course is to protect consumers, to find a level of endurance with traders, but in principle in that part of consumer protection and labelling, especially now I'm talking about food and these products, is also very important for manufacturers because we protect them too if we know what we are buying, which is Croatian, which is not Croatian in stores.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71304	Answer, here are the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71305	First of all, as regards the tour of cities, I think this is one of the kinds of information that our citizens have on consumer rights and other rights or other instruments that the ministry makes available to them, for example one of the topics during the tour of these five cities is how to protect itself in case the administration of another EU Member State violates our citizen's right and how it can achieve that right. That was quite well-accepted, so you could partly agree with what you're saying. It is certainly television and radio media that has a much wider reach on every citizen of ours and, of course, has more scope than a targeted visit to locations. But I think one combination, so one and the other might be optimal to achieve these goals that we're pursuing. As far as price cuts are concerned, I don't have any data here, so I couldn't answer that right now. But certainly about promoting Croatian quality, Croatian original products, traditional products that are promoted and promoted by certain quality labels through HGK and through HOK. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and announce that through European funds we will also make easier administrative procedures for our entrepreneurs to make available to them, and thus promote exactly what is traditionally related to Croatia, what is produced on our market and what we believe to be of additional quality in relation to the products that come from outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71306	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed MP Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71307	Thank you. Respected secretary of state. You have, in your introductory statement on consumer rights, instructed certain projects that are in the body such as consumer advice, etc., and then you instructed consumers to have a unique phone to contact for protection of their rights, etc., among other things, the possibility of addressing market inspection. Since the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts is like some roof organisation that is responsible for protecting consumer rights and you and I know that consumer protection is a very broad area, which is not only in the jurisdiction of this ministry but also in the jurisdiction of some other ministries and that the number of inspections is so wide. So this way I ask you a question, in which way you are as a roof body and whether you have organised or whether you have control or some kind of organisation or a way of looking into the work of an overall inspection that takes care of the protection of consumer rights because on the ground you said that citizens are turning to the Market Inspection, but consumers have a variety of problems. On the ground, at least seven locations were spread to the Brod-Posavina County. Consumers are quite lost there, most often their problems cannot be solved by inspection because they are sent from one place to another. So I'm curious about the role of the ministry or this department that was founded at the Ministry of Economy, whether it has an insight into the work of the entire inspection, whether there is a possibility of some coordination, and how can it be helped by consumers that they know that all their consumer rights can be sought for information and data, not sent from address to address? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71308	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State Natasha Mikush Zigman will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71309	Thank you very much for asking. Yes, certainly every inspection within the competent resolution ministry acts in its area. What we do as a ministry which is horizontally responsible for consumer protection policy, so there is a National Consumer Protection Council in which they are represented, among other things, by representatives of these bodies. The system of information that I have mentioned where complaints or requests for advice or consumer protection can be placed, enable such inter-resor coordination. So if someone asks a question through that system, it can and is consulted with the competent authority and thus the consumer gets the answer either on his or her right to act or on where it should be addressed in terms of the conduct of the inspection. We certainly believe that this inter-resor coordination should be strengthened, and on this trail we are also taking on these information activities that I previously cited in the opening speech in order to strengthen... inter-resor coordination at the central level, but also cooperation with local authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71310	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71311	Thank you very much, Vice President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. I've applied for a replica relating to the part relating to alternative dispute resolution. We are all aware that the weakest link of society is the judiciary, that disputes are long, expensive, and that sometimes there is often justice for those who are trying to come forward. That sometimes it's crazy even to get into disputes especially if you argue with taxpayers' money, tells us one example from the Varazdin County where the House of Health of the Varazdin County spent over the last three years 160 thousand kuna on legal expenses only to manage to earn only 6 grand. Be careful to spend 160 grand to succeed in the disputes of only six thousand kunas to recover. Now let's imagine how many infirmarys in the Varazdin County Health House could be equipped with appliances or a better room for patients. So I absolutely support that disputes can be resolved by alternative solutions and it would be good to stress that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71312	The answer to a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71313	Thank you very much. This is an extremely important segment of consumer rights protection policy. As I said in the opening presentation, the ministry also financed by saying the establishment and first phase of the work of certain bodies dealing with alternative consumer disputes, such as the Centre for Peace in Croatia, also the centre of the HUP, at HGK, HOK. What statistics or the number of cases solved through these centres show for the time being in the second half of 2017 were 66 such cases that were dealt with in an alternative way, and these were the primary calming centres more used to resolve trade contract disputes, where virtually there were bussines too bussines, means traders among themselves, and traditionally consumers were more turned towards courts of honor. We believe that this number is not truly satisfactory for now, it is only by adopting and applying the Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution Act in full practice in the second half of 2017 and is certainly one of the areas in which consumers should work intensively to avoid unnecessary lengthy and expensive court proceedings and to resolve disputes in a more efficient and cheaper way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71314	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the debate will be shared by respected representatives of Žagar and Bulj. First, I see a colleague named Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71315	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Mrs. Mikush Zigman with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. A wide area of the topic, an extremely important area of something that concerns all of us, all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, because anyone who at one point is a provider of goods or works at another time will also become a consumer. What is particularly important to me, and it is highlighted in this document called the National Consumer Protection Programme, is that this programme is aimed at raising the competitiveness of the economy and that is, in fact, the essence. The proper relationship between all market players is causing better competition and, ultimately, the growth of the Croatian economy. And we must not ignore the fact that the basic problem is this, and we saw this during the debate on debtors who raised loans in Swiss francs and the debate of society about whether they themselves should have been responsible for such decisions. One reasonable explanation that seems acceptable to me is that you, on the one hand, have, and also according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, when we talk about two equal entities, means two legal entities have on the one hand people who know and are referred to problems and have people on the other hand who are referred to in the problem. However, in this case you have on the one hand a bank that is very well addressed to this problem and on the other hand you have citizens who are not enough or not must be, in fact it may have to be, but it cannot be sufficiently addressed to that problem. And on the other hand, the law that allowed citizens to leave this debt slavery is, in my opinion, an extremely fair law because they could not know all that the institutions knew and, in that sense, I also see a consumer protection programme in general, the pursuit of consumer protection is the protection of people who do not have enough information at that time or cannot have them, the other thing is whether they must have them, but they can't have them, about everything that happens around them. A colleague here mentioned a short time ago Croatian telecom, e.g. other companies that exist on the telecommunications market, of course, that when you make a contract you can't know everything they know, you can't know, and you can't know that after two years, your contract is automatically extended, you can't even get information if you call customer service, there's been progress, but it's like calling a kindergarten, you don't know who you're talking to, they're not even blaming those people on the other side, but they can hardly give you relevant information. Only after several consecutive attempts do you succeed. And imagine when we talk here about consumer protection, we talk and the emphasis is also placed on this program on new technologies, on Internet services. We today have telecommunications, technologically, technically feasible that you practically change your tariffs in a second, change your options. In one second it can be done by the reckoning, what have you so far... no you have to wait for the contract to pass so then if you have Max TV today is any date, I don't know, 15th, call today, you want to change the service, watch out, they'll cut it off neatly today but at the end of the month there will be a charge for the whole month and one and the other services, and what you cancelled what you changed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are things that hurt people, people are hard to deal with. But let's go back to the most important part of this program that I see in the end, both my colleagues and my colleagues at the MOST club. So this is a very complex and broad area, we here a little truth is a little bit late for a year, we have here a proposal of the National Programme from 2017 to 2020, here unfortunately 2018 is going, not unfortunately, because we are getting old, but here it is, time is going. And the last report we had from 2013 to 2016. And right away, let me say what fell into my eye in this report and in the last one. Here it is put as an emphasis and that there is a calming of the parties that are in conflict, the report has shown that that is exactly what did not work out for us in this settlement, a very small number of cases a year you have to make peace with the parties, now the colleague mentioned and that it requires then some financial costs if there is no calming down which would certainly be a better way. So, as we see in the programme, a consumer protection programme or consumer protection policies, it is called, as a consumer protection policy, and there are no acts of policy that are not covered by this programme. In fact, there's no ministry that's not covered by that program. Here these ministries are listed, the holder of this is the Ministry of Economy, we have this Ministry of Agriculture, the Veterinary Authority for Food Safety and the Ministry of Health and Food Safety, but then we have a veterinary inspection for the safety of human and animal food. There's a series of things that although the emphasis is put on inspections, they won't be so easy to solve. When we had the Agricultural Land Act here, I warned the minister that it was very important in Croatia to establish as soon as possible information systems that we know that we have information about it. I'll tell you one case that's true, so our O.P.G.'s sell pigs, and when the holidays come, then those bastards are sold. And given the frequent times, although this is not justified and economic reasons, they also obtain medical preparations or medicines on the black market. And then an O.P.G. guy calls you a vet and asks him, "Listen, I gave the pigs some kind of product, can I sell the pigs?" And that's what the vet says you can't have pigs, he's got to pass some 45-day deadline, after that means, but the man's already promised it and he probably did it. So what's the problem now? You don't even have an information system where you could see how many times he's been visited by a veterinarian, which exactly the preparations he gave him because it would be impossible or impossible for a man to get into a situation that I have a certain stock fund and that he's never been visited by a veterinarian, believe that it would be every suspect, then also to the inspector. The field inspectors are working, however, as far as they have the authority, as far as they can be said, to be exposed in view of their receipts and their powers, it is now a second question. We saw when Minister Tolusic was clearing up the market, when it went into the trade chains, I have a feeling that he came across hard, it's my personal feeling. If that's really how it happened, something happened, but suddenly that whole initiative stopped. The shift has of course, you now if you come to buy food, yet the shift has but what as a permanent problem is again insufficient information, insufficiently exposed declarations. I don't think I'm an old man yet, but I can't, with my glasses, read hard, sometimes I don't have the will to read anymore because you just don't know where the tomato came from, it says there but who can read it. So to make this program that's here and the program's age made up, there are no significant remarks, the truth is, it's general. In order for it to be carried out, it is necessary to include all those listed here. Here I am just going to put an emphasis on local self-government units. If we see the report, it's not too far away. You know who did this the most? The city of Zagreb, but why the city of Zagreb? Because he's got money. The city of Zagreb has resources, has people, has jobs. But the municipalities can't, the county is mentioned here, so it's not going to that level, it's going to the county, the county's given money for consumer protection associations, but it's obviously not enough because the most important thing, and I'm glad it's written in this program, is the most important thing in education and information. Take financial services, I mentioned at the beginning when we talk about lending, the truth that the consumer credit law made that move, but without informing citizens about the risks they enter when buying certain financial products, about everything that awaits them in the contract and someone here mentioned what is mentioned most often in a small font, these are the most important tasks of all those who are numbered here. So I personally want this programme to make a move in consumer protection, just an assessment of consumer protection, but without including all these stakeholders here. Of course there is a wide range, there are HGK, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, there is also a national consumer protection council, which from individual members. If everyone does not get involved, first of all with timely information with citizens, we will not achieve results, and we all want to, because once again, I do believe that the development of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and what you will raise is safe and consumer protection. And only at the end of one example, really man went, went to restaurants in Dalmatia, introduced himself as a stranger at the same restaurant, next time as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, charged him a different price. They charged him more as a stranger. This may seem to benefit the caterer, but believe it is extremely damaging to the Republic of Croatia and its future in terms of tourism and economy development. The Mosta Club will support this national program.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71316	Thank you. Now will be continued by the esteemed Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71317	Thank you very much. Honorable secretary, distinguished MPs, this is the most undisputed area in the Republic of Croatia. And that is consumer protection in terms of trade in services and trade in general. Today we have such a messy state that certain things that aren't like telegraphers, which I mentioned earlier in the replica. Teleopers who have no right to their countries from where they come from, however, are using huge rights that are paid out of our citizens' pockets. It is also in the setting up of base stations, where without any permission and consent, neighbors, without being in spatial plans, they set up base stations, use telecommunications sewers, without paying legal service and units of local self-government and legal persons owned by that land. However, that it is charged and that it is governed by all the laws, which is a wider story. In fact, much better would be for natural and legal persons, we would have profit, which is normal and legal to charge, but that is not done. As for banks, we need to know that in Croatia, banks, 4 billion kunas, not on interest charge from citizens annually, no, on. It's about 500 special small fees and commissions made in lipas. But get out of our citizens annually no less than 4 billion kuna. That's what they do in their countries, where banks come from, they don't work. It's a bigger one, now the story of this law, how wide it should be. So this is also the CNB, which is absolutely, which should be in the Ministry of Finance, all should counter it, but means that huge money is drawn from citizens' pockets and through these services provided by the bank, however, it is not in their own countries in this way, and we often call on the EU as a member, however, it is obviously not the same. Food, food safety, one of the most important elements in this area, because, of course, when a man pays organically produced food, especially if drinking a domestic product, of course, is more expensive and it should be more expensive. However, the fact is that in 2013 on a round table in HND there was then a round table, there were people, food experts, people who are a company representative, who controls, says man 213, who controls 6000 soy samples, that at that time there were 12% of GMOs, positive GMOs, of which 7% more than allowed, 9% that is allowed. In 2013, I speak, produced in Croatia. So that control is very important. This deception and the lie that it is something domestic, it is ecologically to be controlled, however, is not just enough for this national programme, but needs to know exactly the legal frameworks. But we have to put that on, now I've moved on to food, I've just talked about banking services, it's a complex job, where out of our pockets, i.e.. People's pockets take money. Example, water delivery, water services in Split. Here, people pay water supply, i.e. water that should be within the limits of normal quality, healthy water, however, it is not. But the warnings come to citizens in Split, in the city of Split, to pay bills, of course reminders with interest, with everything that is... However, it does not deliver to them anyone who should deliver the product, does not provide us with the quality of the contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are huge problems and one broad spectrum throughout the story. So this can't just be the Ministry of Economy. This is where everything needs to be turned on. You put it there, I saw the calls, that Hacom would control it. So where this report is mentioned, their call control, people who talk them into, advertised, their products to buy and so on. And especially today, he mentioned my colleague before, since it's digitized today, we have, I mean, with your phone, you can buy what you want now. Food life deadlines, really, that's a big problem. Why in Croatia did I not have standards prescribed that it would be on a can, that it would be on a jar, prescribed, exactly standard, which fund, in which place. So people can't, especially older people, can't even read food deadlines, where the food comes from, and I think there's a wide area here. The national consumer protection programme should be passed, but without laws, which will be shared with all these aspects, this is only one part, there is none of this. We will continue to be the wild west, as far as markets are concerned, and consumers will be threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71318	Thank you. We have replicas on both exhibitors. First of all, the esteemed representative of the Sagar. Dear Representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71319	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you said a wide subject. So I think it's topic number one in the Republic. Subject No. One for what? We have traders and consumers. In that case, we know who the consumers are, who the merchants are. However, these traders are also consumers at another point. So all citizens of the Republic of Croatia with legal capacity are consumers, all of them. Consumers are the most important part of every society. Consumers are maximum protected in the EU, on paper alone in Croatia. In the EU and really, just on paper. Why do I just say it on paper? You were talking about banks. Banks still apply illegal interest rates today with illegal parameters. And today, therefore, consumers are not protected. We've got a collective court ruling that found you've decidedly negotiated unfair contractual provisions on how to change the interest rate by decision of the bank. Such a contractual provision is unfair and worthless, it's not worth it. And secondly, you can't behave like that in the future, but not just like that, but you can't behave like that in the future. And what's going on? The banks are still acting that way. This is allowed by the Croatian National Bank, allowed by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and allowed by the Croatian Parliament. So the government allows executive and legislative authorities to rob Croatian citizens. The only dams are Croatian courts, but by the time people get to the right, they'll die. So, they'll all die before they get their rights. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71320	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71321	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Alexic, here's three things I can't think of. First, when we talked here about adopting the state budget for this year, then we made it very clear that the backbone of economic growth in the Republic of Croatia is consumption. We cannot build the backbone of this country's growth on an unfair market, unfair consumption, fraud. What I congratulate you on and always have the support whenever you are, whatever action and I congratulate you on what you have already succeeded in protecting consumers in this sensitive segment. An ethical question arises, the principle of whether one may, is allowed to deceive one who has more knowledge than one who is slightly weaker understretched to express myself in such a way. So whoever has more information, more information, more expertise on a particular subject, here in this case, let them be banks, deceive those who know something less about it. Is that the kind of business that's ethical? This program also mentions HANFA, also mentions HNB. And it was actually strange that those institutions were silent. If they find out that any business entity is going with it to deceive the citizens and make an unfair profit on them. And I say once again, I congratulate you on these efforts you've made so far, and I hope that we will continue to succeed in protecting those people who are thus damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71322	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected Steve Culei, also respected representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71323	Dear fellow Zhagar, you were talking about small farmers, OPGs, domestic animal breeders who use foreign medicine to grow their animals, so I know something about it. I know that peasants can reach those who understand each other. Most of them are well-read and enlightened in this, they are their own veterinarians because they cannot afford to receive services that are often too expensive for them for what they themselves know and are written enough and educated for it. So, they can also give A, D3 vitamin, E or iron, they know how to cut teeth, they can also prepare it completely and process it and sell it to an end-user who will be far more satisfied, happier, more served when he consumes a domestic product, not the consumer chain, especially foreign breeders of these same domestic animals, who with medications daily, therefore dose these animals from birth to death and through food and through vaccines. So there's a big difference between what the consumer consumes from the domestic producer and what he buys from the big house. I was on a study trip to Austria on a farm where I saw the locals all coming from that place to the farmer on the doorstep and buying domestic goods in legal frameworks as guaranteed from the famous man to the famous buyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71324	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71325	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Culey, thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain myself, perhaps I've expressed myself in an awkward manner. If anyone's on the side of the O.P.G., then I'm sure I'm undermining everything you say, undermining it. It's the system. It's not the O.P.G.'s fault. It's the system's fault that he can't say in one normal, transparent way to use everything he needs. So he needs to give antibiotics to animals, then that's what he needs. In fact, the question arises why he was brought into a situation that he could not do it transparently but must do so in a paradise way. It's not his fault. And I agree with you, so where and where it's better to buy a private pig than to go to a butcher shop because you don't actually know, and that's what this law is about, you don't even know what you're buying. You're not even sure that's what it is sometimes, because the question is how many inspections arrive and how much I can do this job. I'm saying there was something moving here, and now we see that those actions have been done. However, there will be much more to fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71326	Thank you very much. Before continuing, let's welcome the students of the Sisak Professional School who came to look at us a little bit. And now the opportunity for a replica will be given to the esteemed representative Branko Grcic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71327	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state and her associate. I will rely on my colleague, Alexic, and I will say that the SDP government is precisely because of the assessment that our citizens who were in charge of Swiss did not have complete information about all the risks that are going along with it, that we have made the decisions we have and offered to this institution so that the Parliament can pass a law by which the conversion of credit in Swiss will take place. But there's something else I want to say here that we're not repeating ourselves right now. So there are several areas per me that need to find their place in this programme, which are not mentioned explicitly in the program. I'm going to single out only one story that really irritates me, here are young people who know very well what risks they live with what's called betting, gambling. So one of the greatest monsters of a particularly young generation or of a younger generation somewhere between 20 and 30 years old, and every night on all the media we watch commercials that advertise the cube, the betting, and now I see poker being directly advertised. There is not a single action or activity in the direction of banning or significantly restricting the advertising of such monsters that I classify among the three or four major addictions of our citizens, not only of our own, but above all of our citizens, we call consumers, and I talk about citizens. And that's where I call on the Ministry to do what needs to be done. If there is a limited advertising of alcohol, if there is a limited advertising of smoking, of course drugs are meant to be the biggest monster, but the fourth one per me is the big and biggest thing is gambling. Do everything with the relevant ministries to get in the way of that monster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71328	An answer if it can be called the esteemed representative of the Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71329	Thank you, Vice President. It's not an answer in a classical sense, but it's important to believe that it's important, you're ultimately a doctor and you know that it's, you know, what Red Bull gives you wings. I think my colleague Borzan is doing a lot of work on it right now, and she's trying to ban those energy potions from young people. That's my kids drinking too, I saw it, they drink it. It doesn't smell like shit to me personally, but young people consume it a lot, it's a lot of caffeine. Perhaps in this direction I do not know according to today's provisions of the law there is no obligation on many products to point out that they are addictive. Many products actually cause addiction and that is what should be considered in the future to be highlighted by the consumption of these products. Now we come to that other issue of ban. Should we ban it? That's a different question now. Maybe we're causing the opposite effect, and then it's even more interesting when you talk about betting, about these potions, and the ban on advertising should definitely be dealt with legally, like cigarettes and alcoholic beverages other than beer, which is a food product, should be left behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71330	Thank you very much. And now we have one replica of the presentation of the esteemed representative of Bulja, and it will be expressed by the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71331	Thank you, dear Vice President. My friend Bulj, you were talking about fees and a big one for banks on fees. Fortunately, a large number of consumers who are customers of financial services at the Ministry of Finance are e.g. accepted my proposal to abolish the bank's entry and exit fees, unequivocally decided. However, the fact that these fees were abolished unequivocally and decidedly refers to future loans, and banks also agreed on exit fees in existing loans agreed before the entry into force of the Housing Consumer Credit Act. And you see, the government of the Republic of Croatia has not accepted my proposal to ban banks from paying off exit fees for early repayment of loans and in these existing loans. And now the debtors have to go back to court and get the verdict, there are several judgments where the courts have ruled the debtors that the banks have to pay them back the exit fee they paid despite the fact that the fee was agreed because I was here saying that the fee is illegal and it is illegal. The mandatory relationship law is clear, he says in the early payment of the loan, the principal and the damage is charged, the damage is not agreed, the damage is something that has to be proved and they disobeyed me. The government didn't listen to me, I was disobeyed by MPs, and the citizens have to go to court, they have to go to court again, they have to hire lawyers, they have to seek their protection in court. So our task as authorities is to protect the citizens based on what has already been established by the laws. If something of the law has already been established, it is ours to study, accept and protect the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71332	The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71333	Thank you very much. My colleague Alexic, the illegal fee of course that I personally accepted your proposal and the club any illegal fee, and you were also talking about the fees of the exit and all that people will have to be forced to go to court, which will increase the costs of them, the state, which the judiciary will dispute and so is slow. As a matter of fact, they have made one whole fracture and violation, but obviously the banking lobby is too strong both within the assembly and within the government and ministries, and they do not care about the citizen as a citizen and illegal compensation. But the fact and I'll just call for 2017, I even heard that the increase in the bank's profits on these fees is, among other things, illegal fees and you've asked for it, but obviously you didn't accept that the increase compared to 2016 is the profit of banks on these fees, not interest rates, but I'm talking about these fees amongst others and what you're specifically looking for. But they say there are about 500 fees somewhere, in which they charge it, but mostly it's done somewhere around 4 billion kuna a year, they take our citizens out of their pockets and of course they don't invest it in Croatia, but where banks are registered in their own countries and, of course, with that money they invest our young people have to go there. It's a simple logic and in this way, banking lobbys, legal lobbys at the Executive Law when we were giving amendments too, they weren't working in the citizens' interest because the fact that the banking lobby was then about 2.3 hours when the Executive Law came out immediately for a pay phone was fine. Also then, the banking lobby and the lawyer did everything to keep it from going through, giving it illegally, in fact, everything they did in this assembly against the citizens at that moment because it could have been a lot of the current law before the new one was passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71334	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Šipic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71335	... A respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here is the proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017/2018. The main objective of consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia is to improve the quality of life of citizens and is part of the EU's strategic objective of ensuring that all citizens enjoy high standards of consumer protection, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the consumer is economically weaker in the market and that the trader has more knowledge and information about the products placed on the market than the consumer who buys them and then leads to imbalances in the market. Therefore, the common feature of all modern demographic states is the protection of the interests of economically weak parties in market relations. The policy of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia for the next four-year period is also in step and the emphasis of this policy will be on increasing consumer rights standards in such a way that it becomes an active market participant and, accordingly, specific objectives are set. Better information and education on their rights to provide consumers with an instrument of rapid settlement of complaints and disputes, better enforcement of consumer rights through effective market surveillance, further development of product safety policy, strengthening consumer protection associations and strengthening the role of units and regional self-government in consumer protection policy. Only when we have a high level of consumer rights in providing goods and services on the Croatian market will we have a competitive domestic economy and return to consumer satisfaction and trust, and this leads to an increase in economic activity. As far as our legislation is in line with EU legislation, consumers continue to fail to fully exercise their rights, so these national programmes plan to undertake activities relating above all to the improvement of the legislative framework in the field of protection, more effective implementation of competent legislation, more effective implementation of product safety policy, information on education, traders and consumers, faster resolution of complaints and consumer disputes, the development of consumer protection organisations and the increased activity of units of local and regional self-government in policy and the implementation of consumer protection policy. When we talk about improving the legislative framework, we are primarily referring to the modern market and the new forms of business that then require new legislative solutions, following which the European Commission has since 2015 implemented a regulatory programme to check the situation and effectiveness of so-called ... The main element of European consumer protection policy is strengthening the role and effective protection of their consumer safety. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] EU member states need to pursue a common policy of protection on the single market, so the Single Market Act is a strategic document to promote consumer confidence in the single market. The fact is that the world economy is rapidly digitised, that the Internet and digital technologies are changing the way life and work are done and that the need for a more coherent and coordinated action of all market stakeholders arises. Cross-border customers face a number of discrimination, therefore one of the priority measures is to prevent discrimination against consumers and business entities when buying goods and services on the Internet on the single market and which can be linked to issues of nationality, residence, geographical location, etc. When talking about Internet trade, it should be said that the Republic of Croatia will coordinate its legislation with the current changes to European legislation in this area. A major challenge for Europe as a whole is product safety. Therefore, a number of measures should be taken against traders who violate consumer rights and which will only succeed in further education and specialisation of trade inspectors. The system of the trust mark should also be mentioned here. The trust mark would be placed on the trader's website and would mark the relationship between consumer and trader trust. The body responsible for consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia is the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts within which the Consumer Protection Policy Service, which proposes and implements a protection policy, proposes measures to improve the protection system, performs the tasks of adapting the legal system of the Republic of Croatia to the acquis, monitors the achievement of the objectives and tasks set out in the policy strategy, performs tasks with the work of the European Consumer Centre and a number of other activities related to consumer protection. One of the most important projects of the ministry has already been mentioned here is a consumer consultation project, under which the ministry finance regional consultations with the task of providing consumers with advice on the protection of their interests, and as we heard it was carried out at the level of four regions of Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka and Split. I will mention Dalmatia and the Split area and a consumer protection counselling centre in preparation for today's exhibition. More than 4,000 citizens reported last year and sought advice that shows greatly how important it is to support this project and to revive the project. We know that a single phone has been introduced for consumers and is an integral part of the consumer consultation project. It is also one of the tasks of the competent ministry to establish a quality system for alternative solutions to consumer disputes in the Republic of Croatia as well as to achieve a more significant inclusion of local self-government units on this issue as well. Other bodies involved in consumer protection policy are the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health, the Agency for Electronic Media, the Agency for Coastal, Linear Transport, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Croatian National Bank, etc. We need to highlight the important thing, and it concerns product safety, which is the REPEX system, a RAPEX pardon that helps to prevent and limit the supply of products that pose a risk to consumer health and safety. The system allows for the rapid exchange of official notifications of measures and actions concerning a product that poses a risk to consumer health and safety. We will also highlight the role of the National Consumer Protection Council, which is the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and one of the most important policyholders of protection, which draws up this National Programme as reports on the implementation of measures under the Programme. One of the main stakeholders in consumer protection policy is, of course, the Consumer Protection Association, which aims to fight for the establishment of a fair market and social and economic justice for consumers, as well as to help build a consumer protection and voice care system at local, regional and global level. It is very important that we all recognise the importance of these associations especially in the part of their funding, and this applies primarily to the units of local self-government in which these mentioned associations operate. The main task of all Member States is to provide consumers with better information and their rights and the possibilities of protecting them, and this will be done through cooperation with the NGO in the field of information, education and consumer advice, then the central information system for consumer protection, alternative dispute resolution that would be much more efficient and flexible than judicial proceedings could be brought about by a lawsuit, it is informal and requires less costs such as to include more courts of honor, the European Consumer Centre, the Register, etc. I place an emphasis on the need for education and we put emphasis on no matter how education took place. Further to the financial description of consumers, and increasing the financing of the Consumer Protection Associations, which are the voice of the person who lives and spends. Finally, I would say that this programme provides one framework that wants to make life easier for all of us who are consumers and consumers, and also for those who are engaged in trade, that we know what and how to deal with everything we consume in a broader sense. The Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club will support this proposal of the National Consumer Protection Programme, as did the parent board, the Economic Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71336	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit, so let's start from the beginning. He is the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71337	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Šipić is not that National Programme at all ill-written, everything in him is acceptable, there is no problem. But the problem is that all these regulations are our letters on paper because they're not being implemented in the field. They shall not be carried out in action after certain judgments have been carried out. You mentioned a court of honor. The court of honor is a holy guide. The court of honor is just a moral punishment. We have the first ruling for illegal interest right in the court of honor sir, I can't remember what it's called from Split he's got a verdict against me it seems like the Privredna banka Zagreb or Zagreb banka. Don't take my word for it. And it found that the bank illegally agreed on an interest rate, that it should not have changed the interest rate by its decision. All that's been determined. But for what it's worth, it's just moral punishment. It was published in public journals, in the People's newspaper, and the end of the story. Once again, the Association "Franak" had to file a collective lawsuit through the Consumers Association because the Ministry of Economy does not allow the legitimacy to do so. Once again the consumer has received the verdict collectively has to go to court to get his money. So there must be a mechanism, a state mechanism which, after a collective verdict, will be fully clear, decided, unequivocally systematically solve the problem because it is not about one consumer. It's about 200,000 consumers. Therefore, when it comes to a systemic problem, then the state must find ways to make legal decisions depriving all of these consumers on the basis of the judiciary. I think it is possible to find a way to resolve this by law and that even in this law, the court that has reached a collective verdict is involved, because it will best determine how consumers' rights are achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71338	The honourable representative Ivan Šipic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Alexic, where I will agree with a great deal in this part, given your commitment to the fight for consumer rights and those who consume, all of our people who consume loans and... Therefore, this bond, how it will be found from education to concrete measures, should indeed be reconsidered, which is why, when such a verdict comes and if such a verdict has come, and I believe, there is no reason not to trust you in that part, which is why I would care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I believe that through this programme and these measures, and also the ministry, which today represents this programme will have to answer such questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71340	The next replica is Irena Petrijevčenin Vuksanovic's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71341	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Šipic, you mentioned Croatia's position in the global environment in your presentation and what challenges we face. Perhaps now an opportunity to mention, that Croatia, in today's global world, which is a small country, is very important to it to be well positioned, not only in the EU market, but also in the global context. It should be said that we really have so much to offer, but no strategy, no programme, can enable us to do what we really need and as our producers, of course and as our traders, without strict and conscious controls and without the obligation of greater representation of our products on our shelves, and we know that some countries, such as Belgium, France, Hungary and some other countries, have already done so, have made the commitment that 50% of the products, domestic origins on domestic shelves. That's what we need to strive for, and this is an opportunity to talk about it. And I believe that our MPs in Parliament will continue lobbying and insist that Croatia gets equal opportunities and equal conditions, as larger countries do. And just like that, we'll have a better position on the global market, and our producers will have a better status, that's our goal. But our customers also need to have the same conditions as our customers do in France. That's the goal we need to pursue. And it does not matter, that Croatia has 15 products that bear the designation of original quality and are protected, but we can also have many, many more products that have these labels and that is what we need to strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71342	Answer, the respected representative Ivan Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Irena, this part of the fight for the European market, especially when it comes to food, you mentioned that we have 15, therefore, protected products that are recognised in the EU, so we can point out a few of us when we do not read and will not be reminded, wondering where these products belong. So here, we'll mention, as you yourself said 15 agricultural and food products, such as Neretva mandarin, ogulinic acid cabbage, baranja tower, liqueur potatoes, Istrian ham, držajski prosciutto, Dalmatian prosciutto, and so we can count all the way to... I agree with this part, where you said that Croatian food, i.e. Croatian product, better and better positioned in this global sense, European trade, the whole system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And our Ministry of Agriculture, and we will also say the Ministry of Health, because here it is seen that this programme predicts that the Ministry of Health, with its own inspection and quality control, can contribute precisely to making the Croatian product as much representation as possible because it seems that often, when tourists come, they recognize our products better than we can place them. Here, that's what we should be more concerned about, so, ourselves, we set up this system, which will give us a better presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71344	Thank you. And now it will be replicated by the esteemed representative Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71345	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, Honorary Representative Šipic. The consumer is a driver of economic development, the consumption of goods for personal use, the withdrawal of loans, to financial and all types of intellectual services. So it's all goods, for all there are consumers. Consumer protection is definitely becoming recognised with us, but we have not yet reached EU standards. Cross-border Internet trade, there is an increase and more such purchases, but it is still a certain percentage of consumers, i.e. customers who are afraid of fraud and the inability to exercise their consumer rights. So, what do you think about protecting Internet customers, i.e., this kind of trade, by specializing in Internet trade inspectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71346	Here is an Internet store representative, Ivan Šipic, will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said well, first of all, we've heard, we've all become a global market and it's all within our grasp. Today, by clicking on your mouse or on your cell phone, you can order anything you practically want. It's only important that you put your card on and that you're available in payment. Of course it's a very tricky and very ticky area, so to speak and very sensitive and we know by the complaints, and we know by the reactions of our fellow citizens, that many have found themselves deceived. And that this issue of Internet shopping should be further protected and therefore I call on the ministry to work and to include even more opportunities as far as is available in this regard to strengthening the protection of Internet trade. Because imagine our people, I recently read the same thing, people buy our wages, buy, buy with quotes or without quotes on nice, nicely packed, buy etc. What happens? Either there's a product that's not good quality, or it's paid, and the goods don't come at all, etc. A very, very sensitive area and a whole series I would say and even legal data should be directed in this direction so that our fellow citizen will not be so exposed to so many frauds, malfeasances mainly via the Internet market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71348	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Marina Skiboli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71349	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Šipic, I'd like to ask you about the current affair that was, and that's the Swiss franc affair. Over 100,000 people were damaged by Swiss francs. You mentioned the CNB. Did the CNB do his job? Did the governor of the National Bank react? Did he apologize to the Croatian public? There will be elections soon for the governor of the National Bank. Will you support Governor Boris Vujcic? Often, various bureaucrats invite us to trust the institutions. How can we trust such institutions that do nothing to protect Croatian citizens? We also know the Raiffeisen cooperative affair. There's still a lot of banks that didn't even have permission from the National Bank, and they gave credit. The public doesn't know that. I'd like to know personally how you're going to vote on Governor Vujcic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71350	The answer of the respected representative Šipić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think in your replica, you've touched the most about what's not the subject at all. One part I'll agree to. So you're asking me directly whether or not I'm going to support it, I think it's more of a political question that I am, which I'm simply asking you in this way through a debate on the National Consumer Protection Programme, I'm going to have a hard time answering, and you know that I'm going to have a hard time answering that question. As for this part that you've touched a whole series of problems in the first row of this Raiffeisen case, etc., so I think the competent institutions have been as familiar as I am with this issue. Now, do I know what you and all of our people who are damaged or not damaged are always interested in what's concrete. So let's let those services end up with something. That's what I'd say. So let's let the service do something once the end, and not the Priors say immediately they won't, they're hiding, they're fogging, etc. So I agree that you belong to a political group that insists on pushing, so don't be angry with the good part of a populist part that means condemning and making a conclusion, and we haven't had any concrete process, or procedure, etc. Most often I repeat, although you open up often times and good topics and should say so. So I belong to admit the other side, so in that sense let people do their job first, not quote someone, institutions do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71352	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71353	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Šipić, clearly we at the HSS club want as many products as possible on the shelves of large trade chains. We clearly believe that we should invest more in the education of consumers to buy Croatian food, but at the same time they should be precisely marked to protect our consumers from GMO products. But here I have to read one example of the relationship of the big ones to the little ones. In particular, on 31.12., a request was sent to HT for compensation for damages. When a telephone cable was placed next to the fence wall and an unstructured channel, there was a later tilting of the wall in the upper part. After a long battle, the HT gentlemen came to visit the construction site and it was the head of the works, then the director of Tesla Ericson, then from HACOM and the regional director of HT. Neither one of them denied unprofessional performance. Everyone has promised to help, but nothing has been done today after my numerous commercials. So I consider it a disgraceful act by HT to be a typical Balkan relationship to a small user. They probably think they're powerless to Goliath HT and I'll give up my rights. That's not gonna happen, I'm about to go to Strasbourg if the Croatian judiciary doesn't help me. Here's a clear example of the relationship of the big ones to the little ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71354	The answer of the respected representative Šipić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'll agree with you fellow. I, too, can set such an example from my example, a very negative example. I'm also a consumer and a customer of one of the operators' services. And I'm going to agree to some of this debate and the examples that have been brought here. It means a very unfair relationship to the customer of the service. So this is very unfair, least said with the consequences that it costs. Therefore, I believe that this part is not well defined and that it should do a little more in that part to make the one who provides the service answer for that service and not only to say sorry, I am sorry the service will be etc., etc., but that is what our people and our citizens listen to every day. Here's what I'm going to totally agree with is what you said because it's really in practice and we can't deny it. And that is why here are the State Secretarys of the Ministry of the Ministry of Our Examples of the future consumer protection programmes, not asphyxiation to say or return. Thus, examples of "good practices" go to a healthy society and to more trust in all institutions and in a commercial sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71356	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which to speak the respected representative Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71357	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. In front of us is the National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017-2020. Since we are already in 2018 this programme would refer to these future three years. In principle, we can all agree that consumer protection today is a common feature of all modern and democratic states. Consumer protection includes a set of measures and activities aimed at improving the position of consumers on the market, which includes, among other things, the freedom to choose products and services, the right to safe products and services, the right to accurate and true information on product content and quality, etc. And why does it matter? Today, we are aware that a satisfied consumer and equal status and relationship between consumers and traders or service providers is that this directly has a positive impact on the functioning of the market itself, on the development of business activities of the economy and on economic growth. When you look at this National Consumer Protection Programme, some of the general objectives I will now set are listed at the outset, meaning better information and consumer education on their rights, providing consumers with mechanisms for rapid settlement of complaints and disputes, improved effective consumer rights control, further development of product safety policy, strengthening the Consumer Protection Association and strengthening the role of the local community in consumer protection. These are some general goals that we can't say are not good. However, the question arises whether they are quite principled, are they quite general and how ambitious these goals we want to achieve over the next three years? In fact, we now have to consider that we are part of the EU market, so the question is how much of these objectives will be covered by the European market and the equality of us as consumers within the European market. Furthermore, what we need to conclude today and what is clear in the Republic of Croatia, which is that consumers are still not protected enough, is still a greater advantage and greater protection is given to capital and I believe that despite this programme and despite that programme previously for the previous three years, the state has not yet taken sufficient action to adequately protect the consumer. The introduction of this national programme states that the state has implemented all EU legal provisions, however, it is acknowledged that there are analyses and statistics that speak, and so on we have this so-called. The consumer traffic lights from 2015 which say that our consumers are still not considered to be sufficiently protected, are still not satisfied and still lack sufficient information on their rights and on the possibilities of protecting their rights. So it's obvious that we have legal regulations, we also have this program, we have a previous programme, but in reality it doesn't seem enough in real and real life has yet to come to this point of application of the legal rules so that they have a certain effect. Here is a concrete example of we have Internet trade, so we have implanted EU directives, but Internet trade as regards consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, consumer protection is at a very low almost inadequate level. We in this programme alone can see that the government plans only to introduce a quality and safety label for the next period, and we know that Internet trade is already very widespread because by entering the EU, we have developed our momentum in the area of Internet trade, and apparently there has been no impact on both development and consumer protection in this area. So besides not having a quality mark and the safety of these traders, we don't protect enough customers they are exposed to risk and recommendations when buying. We also announce in this programme that in the future, we will educate competent inspectors to control on-line trade. So now that you think about it a little bit better and ask the security question and he's on the line of trade because he's not just a clothing store anymore, the shoes are here now and the food, and we're only going to educate the competent inspection to control that on-line trade. So this is one area that our country apparently welcomed very unprepared and a large number of customers are in the risk area. Here's just a little statistical data, today we have data that 82% of citizens are daily viewing offers via the internet or online store and 57% of them bought something in the last 3 months, it's just to see the scale of using online trade. So we are aware of this giving consumer protection a very complex area, we have this very broad institutional framework. So in the principle of protection lies the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, which was established within its structure by the Consumer Protection Department and the European Consumer Centre Department. This ministry must ensure quality protection, cooperate with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, the Ministry of Health, the Electronic Media Agency, the Agency for Coastal and Linear Transport, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency, the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the CNB. So these are all institutions that need to be dealt with, or which, within their jurisdiction, have certain regulations in the area of consumer protection. Here we must count the signs of the head as the roof body is the National Consumer Protection Council, which is the advisory body of the Government and as a civil sector we have associations to protect consumers. So, we see that this is a very complex complex, but now the question is to create an optimal system where consumers themselves will have the services of all these bodies and all of these agencies that this works on the ground to provide all the necessary information, all the necessary information and adequate protection to come to consumers. What should we do in the future? It's to strengthen that role of local communities. So if local communities don't join the entire network of organisations, the consequences will be equal to those of today, and that's that we have, let's say, we have a consumer consultation project, we have, say, a project to form the register "Don't Call" and a large number of almost a small number of our consumers are not familiar with these projects at all. So that's where the local communities have to be involved. From the debate today in the Parliament, we see from the outset of individual MPs that they are not familiar with these projects that are being implemented on the ground, let alone that they would be consumers who, especially in smaller environments that have neither adequate internet connections, the possibility of access to internet connections, etc. Therefore, it is essential that this institutional framework is organised in a way that units of local self-government, which is of course the mission of the state to ensure that they ensure that certain advisory activities are carried out at their levels, means that it is not enough just to provide space, there must be activity in terms of brochures, informing citizens because you see that every local self-government when it carries out its municipal activities, already many local communities recognise it, and then they are open to its citizens in the field of municipal activity, so we must be aware that consumer issues are also issues that are important for the daily lives of our citizens and local units must participate actively in this area. Furthermore, since we have data from all research that consumers or customers in the Republic of Croatia are still considered particularly unprotected and that is, above all, the reason why citizens do not have adequate protection against traders or service providers. Every trade when it goes wrong, the question arises as to how an ordinary citizen can now exercise his rights and fight for some kind of justice and get what he wanted within that relationship. The EU is working very hard on alternative dispute resolution, meaning to avoid any long-term court proceedings that are primarily long-term, exhausting, which are very expensive and do not achieve the effect of the satisfaction of justice that should be achieved. Alternative dispute resolution in this programme we say that we have a tradition of alternative dispute resolution that I cannot agree with, with us alternative dispute resolution has never fully recovered. Well, even now this last European Commission platform, which is a platform for on-line dispute resolution, is a platform that we haven't properly implemented in our legislative system, which is not properly implemented because you have on-line stores that don't have marked, I don't know if and have at all, I don't think that in law they don't even have the obligation to label that platform in order to immediately in the event of some deficiencies, we can include that click, make our complaint. The European Commission has very positive developments in this area and the number of cases solved to the satisfaction of both parties is very large and in these reports the European Commission does not even mention Croatia. So for one reason we haven't implemented it properly, and also because our country hasn't taken enough to protect customers in the area of Internet trade. Furthermore, alternative courts established in the Republic of Croatia do not act in the full sense of words, still the largest number of disputes ends in court, and only when you look at the structure and way of organising these alternative courts will you be made clear, you have, for example, as the best alternative court is that of the Croatian crafts chamber, it has its own organisational units in all counties, it does not have a court in all counties. The question arises why is there only in larger centres such as Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split? So it's still not available enough and it hasn't properly revived it yet. Although they also have peacemakers in the county centres, but since they do not have these permanent courts, the question and practice arises as to how many peacemakers have these items per month, how many do they solve them and you know that without successful practice there is no quality, or without a number of cases there will be no quality. So, an alternative solution to disputes is what is quite limitedly processed and quite unambitious in this plan, and it is very important for our customers, i.e. consumers, to gain certain security. And finally, what I'm going to look particularly at in this program, even though I've already pointed out in the replica, which is inspection surveillance. Since the area of consumer protection is regulated by a large number of laws, a large number of ministries for the implementation of these laws are also responsible from different sectors. These ministries have every inspection of their own, so you have the Ministry of Economy that has the Market Inspectorate, you have the Ministry of Health that has the Sanitary Inspectorate, has the Ministry of Agriculture that has your Veterinary Agricultural Inspection and a specialized food control inspection. Then you have this Tourist Inspectorate who is in charge of the Ministry of Tourism, etc. All these inspections in a particular segment are supervised by laws governing consumer rights. Now, the question of the coordination of these powerful inspections is being raised, and on the ground, it seems very uncoordinated. Let's say, specifically in Brod-Posavina County, these inspections were distributed to you in one five, six, seven locations. They are not educated enough for citizens who come to them with certain complaints to direct or give them quality information. Most often, citizens walk from one inspection to another and end up not solving their problem, and this is the basic failure of the central state, which in the field, in cooperation with local communities, has not solved this way of providing services to citizens, so that this service is quality, fast and efficient. And in the end, I would also mention an example of how I initially said that this programme is generally good, but it should be much more ambitious. Excuse me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71358	You've been a little hard on that, too. I've let it go a little longer, but this is a little too long. Now we'll have opportunities in replicas to hear something else. The first line was announced by respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71359	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Polance, you said financial literacy, information, it's all right, but it's not just financial literacy. The problem is respect for the law. There's an old saying in Roman law Ignorance yuris night. So not knowing the right doesn't justify anyone if they're wrong. In consumer protection, this rule does not always apply. Consumers are more protected than traders. The trader is subject to the rule of ignoring yuris at night, but for the consumer, that rule does not apply. And the problem isn't with the information when it comes to banks, it's not a problem with the information that's written. The problem is with the information that wasn't written. Therefore, banks have generally negotiated in the last 15 years such loans in which consumers have been insufficiently informed, in which they have negotiated contractual provisions which are indeterminate under the Law on Mandatory Relations. If the contractual act is indeterminate and it is indeterminate in that case where no information is agreed in the contract on the basis of which any act must be carried out. In such a case, such an act is unfair and harmful, and thus the collective verdict finds that an unfair and harmless variable interest rate in the way it is agreed on in 200,000 loans and perhaps more. Therefore, the problem with some traders, and above all with banks, is that they deliberately do not enter into contracts the information they need to enter, and the consumer is not responsible, and therefore the authorities in such situations must react systematically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71360	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71361	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My friend Alexich, I can agree with you here. The problem of the Swiss francs was the big problem of this country, interest and otherwise lending was a big problem because we found ourselves in a new system where there was an open credit market and the state was like the Croatian National Bank and other institutions were not ready and there were consumers, there consumers were completely left to risk and what happened happened happened. But you also know that the SDP government at the time to solve the Swiss francs problem has passed the proper laws and solved the problem, meaning credit in Swiss francs. In the same way, the problem of interest should also be addressed by legislation. So this is an area that is totally unprotected, where consumers are at great risk and I fully agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71362	Next is the replica of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71363	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleagues Luc Polance did very well and I would agree with you that consumers in the Republic of Croatia are still not sufficiently protected and not well informed. Namely, here's to asking our citizens, not just citizens, but probably us in this assembly, if we had an objection to work, or do we want to report someone selling ice cream on the beach to which the inspection would apply? Who would they call? They might say, touristically, it's probably a tourist activity. Yeah, if you buy ice cream balls. You won't believe it, if you buy ice cream in the cornnet, then it's a store, that's why it's applying to market inspection. However, once that inspection comes out on the ground, if it finds that work is black, then it is no longer in the domain, nor market, nor tourist administrations, but customs administrations. What she would point out and underline here was that the HDZ Club was still talking about in 2013 when the economic inspectorate was disbanded. Just after 15 years of successful work by an economic inspector, the SDP government has split it into five ministries. And that's why not just citizens, but in this assembly, we don't know exactly what inspection, which part is in charge of. Here's what you'd like to do, right now, to the ministry, to think about it again, even though it's also caused by high costs and a big mess in the head, which we don't have yet because we have so many inspections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71364	The answer, Honorable Representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71365	I can agree with you there. There used to be a state inspectorate that they came to and the citizens turned to their demands and they got everything in one place, now it's very awkward. However, as I recall, the plan was to leave the competent inspections under the authority of their ministries for the sake of tight speciality, as it was also difficult to function as a state inspectorate because of the various skills, specialities and professions. The question arises, which is why these inspectors are not at local level, joined the offices of the state administration, because we know that public administration offices currently have very little function, these are departments that are parallel to the counties, so it was possible to take advantage of this very opportunity to put all inspections in some way, retain the authority, on them the ministry and partly subordinated to the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71366	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71367	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear colleagues with one part of the debate agree. But the part where you talk about Croatia's position in relation to that line of purchase and other European countries, I cannot agree because it is not true. It is not exactly how you say Croatia is in a worse position. If we look objectively and based on all available information, then the entire EU, in an equally bad situation, is related to that line of trade. What's this about? It is that, on the one hand, customers in EU Member States are not in the same position as buyers of non-EU member states, especially if the seller, i.e., is the head office of a US and China company, which is most often the case, because the largest retailer is based there. On the other hand, the EU has not developed enough trade between its member states. So Croatia is by no means a black oasis within the EU market, either by control or by sale. Recently, he was here two days ago, Commissioner of the European Commission, for the Digital Single Market and for the Agenda, and he himself said that the Digital Single Market does not exist. And he's the commissioner literally said, I'm the commissioner for something that doesn't exist, but it will only exist. This means, when there is a single digital market, which is one of the priorities of the European Commission, then we mean that the EU will also deal with this part of the problem, i.e. on the line of trade, which is listed there as one of the problems. So when it settles the EU, it will also arrange the member states, so Croatia. And what's more important to say, it's not just this problem, the problem is, and you probably mentioned it, maybe I missed it, from the safety products. Because these products that are sold, they simply, are not subject to any control now and there is no way that they are advertised, because often those orders and those advertisings are actually fakes, i.e., assessments of these orders, reviews of these advertisements are false and that is one of the problems that is referred to, like, a problem that needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71368	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc Polance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71369	Thank you. So respected MPs, related to the on-line trade, I can't say that this is happening specifically in Poland, the Czech Republic or some other countries, but from the programme itself we see, so we have today he is the line store present with us. And we today in this programme can read that our inspectors are not trained to control that poison and the same, that we are not yet, and we are just planning to introduce quality and safety codes to protect our consumers. So obviously the state hasn't done enough on that, in the area of Internet trade. As for your allegations, that we must wait, for Europe to create a single digital market, I cannot agree with you and Croatia must be active in this. Here, I will only give you an example of our euro Parliamentarian, who has carried out the procedure, not that food security, but the quality of food, at the level of the euro of Parliament, Mrs Biljana Borzan spent in Croatia control of the quality of food where she found that we as consumers in the European market are being discriminated against because we have poorer quality goods coming in. But what's the problem? You can't have an individual, and that's where the whole country has to be involved. We cannot stop it from the fact that the euro of the parliamentarian has conducted the research and that this is the case and that it will fight in the europarliament for something and that Europe will eventually regulate it. And the state must be more active in doing these controls than the competent state institutions, and the state also has its representatives in the Council of Europe, where it must be actively advocated and lobbyed for our consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71370	Thank you. We move on to the next club of representatives, which is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71371	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Proposer's representatives. Here's to break this nirvana a little bit, the GLASs Club and HSU won't support this national program. Unlike those who have previously said that this is what they say is a generally good program, we believe that it is not and is far from a good programme, and now I will say why. First of all, this is a typical bureaucratic document that binds no one to anything. He only counted and it polled mainly what institutions will do to those in our legal system in charge of certain segments of consumer rights over the next three years, but without any plans of activity, without any deadlines. Most of the time, we'll be doing what we've been doing so far. When you look at a little list of what's been classified by the institutions themselves from the ministries and agencies, and on top of that, you'll see that the general question is what you're going to do by 2020, and that they were mostly responding in that tone, we'll do what it says in the job description, so regardless of the national plan we're doing according to our own. When a little bit is summed up and taken away this document is nothing more than washing this government's own conscience before the European Commission, conscience for inaction. Since this document was proposed to the government before October, the government sent him to the Parliament in October and that he is still carrying the year of early 2017, he says how serious it is. We're in 2018. Furthermore, the three main pillars of the success of a liberal society that rests on contemporary capitalism. The first is freedom of competition, the second is the right and protection of employees from exploitation and is the third right of consumers. If these three things are harmonised and the state through its regulation gives the right conditions for the development of all three types of freedom, there will be harmonisation of their relations and not only the creation of a new value but the basis for creating a state of well-being or a country of contented people. The balance between competition and competition freedom and citizens' rights as consumers in this document is not seen anywhere. I can say that this document is disappointing and, as well as an introductory explanation on behalf of the promoter, it is also because no single word speaks critically of the existing state. We don't even know which points we're moving from, which are the biggest problems when we're talking about consumer protection. Well, something didn't come out yesterday, so we're talking about consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia for a good ten years. What's the practice? What activities and areas have we come to? What are the key problems, and within what time does one of the stakeholders intend to resolve them? It would be a national programme with an action plan. We don't see a single measure here that has, say, a deadline. How are you going to track this program or not? Not at all. A recent analysis by the European Commission found that the Republic of Croatia, in the last place, has several parameters in terms of protecting consumer rights, primarily its citizens as consumers. She found that we are the worst at the level of consumer confidence in institutions, that we are also the worst at the level of knowledge about consumer rights in the area of trade, that Croatian citizens are the most exposed among the 28 EU members to unfair business practices of traders. So there are very three concrete grades. This national programme didn't answer the question of how we from 27th to 28th place would come to say 12th not to be very distinguished because we're so not quite able to do it. It is therefore incredible that this programme is not at all dealing with areas where the most recent years have seen is the most recent way of violating consumer rights and the largest number of cases. Telecommunications services, find me in one place in this national program where telecommunications services are mentioned. Nowhere. Furthermore, banking services had already been said, hundreds of thousands of people suffered from the self-will of banks as suppliers of a particular financial service only in the event of a Swiss franc loan. And these people have already reached points from which they can see the solution of their problems on the horizon, and in all cases it is said that they were right. The hero's work was done by the Franak Association, none of us, the Franak Association. And what's going on? The economy ministry does not recognise them as a consumer protection association at all. And what could they be? Well, isn't that pointless? The third area in which the largest number of ecultane cases of consumer rights violations occur is trade and in particular food. It only partially mentions some of the problems, but we do not see and monitor how they will effectively oppose it. What's our practice? Let's say we take recent cases of dairy inspection. In one case, which covered 25 samples of dairy products, more than 20% of samples were found to have serious discrepancies in the lower content of milk fat, a higher proportion of water, in a small proportion of dry matter, and in that, for example, to deceive the consumer and to declare cheese as goat cheese and made of cow milk. Another example is the situation with the honey market in Croatia. 1300 tonnes of honey are imported every year to the Republic of Croatia and that part of domestic so-called The manufacturer repacks it and sells it as his own. Take a look at the declarations on those honeys you get when you drink tea and you will see that, as a country of origin, it is part EU and partly outside the EU. What does it mean to be from the EU or, say, Croatia in particular, 0.5% and 99.5% in China where we know there's a problem with honey-making? Have you noticed that merchants cheat on us by changing our packaging? What was once packed 1 kilograms or 1000 grams, now in packs of 840 or 850. What was in 500 grams, now in 375, what was packed in 200 grams, is now in 175 or 125 and the prices haven't changed. Did you notice how they tricked us? Is there any word on this national program? Of course not. What about market behavior and prevention of misbehaving of monopolies? Find me a single word or sentence that deals here with the position and delivery of goods and services by monopolies on the market. It's not there. And isn't that what one of the bigger problems is? Yeah, well, where there's no competition, they make us cut sheep. It's not just energy, it's where the competition started to look. There are many other services and goods where they really cut our hair as they please. How is it possible that the same services in our country, regardless of the different tax burden, are even 200% more expensive than in some other countries, although a real price ratio would actually kill that difference all about at least 50%? This issue mentioned by colleagues involved and Mrs Biljana Borzana, is an extremely important issue. How is it possible that famous trade marks in the country of origin or in another country have a different composition, and that means quality than in other countries and this is about the EU, about the single market? Is that what this national program is about? Only shyly, he suggests, the EU will bring some resolutions and we will then adapt. As we adapt, it also testifies that there are some 2013 resolutions that have not yet been implemented in their legal order. That's how we're gonna do it. Or those who are indicated here will likely behave in this way and will be implemented in the legal system. And that will, of course, be beyond this framework to which this programme applies, and that is 2020. And finally, the whole little chapter here is dedicated to assessing the role and to worrying about the work of consumer protection associations. It is such hypocrisy as has not been seen since at least 1 January of this year in the Croatian Parliament. So how are you not ashamed? Why didn't you say that a whole series of consumer protection associations has already closed the lock? That they closed and stopped working in Slavonski Brod, Bjelovar, Sisak, Zadar, Sibenik? I can't breathe. They have nothing to do with it. It is said that there are 5 regional centres, or 5 phone lines of counselling centres that people can contact with their problems and where they will be helped. Of these 5 lines, currently 4 do not work at all because the Ministry of Economy is, of course, late for the grant of funds for this type of service, and when the funds are allocated, and this will probably be the end of March, all those associations behind the 4 regional centres, will not be able to pay people for January, February and March, these people have gone on the market because they must not retroactively pay for neither the costs of the cold drive nor the wages but will eventually be re-employed since 1 April. One single phone number that works right now, that's number 072 414 414. Now let's see how it works, it's the only number.../The speaker played on the mobile automatic message./... That's right, we're talking to the machine that told us at 12 o'clock and 42 minutes that they only work 10 to 12. So, for free and this one when it's dysfunctional. This one is located at the Ministry of Economy, where all people are so busy at work that there is not one person who is able to answer the phone, say from 9 to 15, but only 10 to 12. With me calling five times this morning from 10 to 12, a machine that said, "Your call is on hold, all the operators are busy." But you know what he didn't tell me and where I was really offended? He didn't tell me "Your call is being charged." Instead of being on line 0800, he's on line 072. So how are you not ashamed? Why don't you tell people who are addressing you with requests for advice and help to charge them a phone service? Well, since that's how you charge them, how come you can't pay the person who does that for at least eight hours? And then don't ask again, why the GLAS and HSU club won't support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71372	Thank you very much. Before we move to replicas, please welcome the students of the Zagreb Industrial and Construction School who are with us. Here and now the first line will have a respected representative, Goran Aleksic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71373	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Richembergh, you've touched me a little bit, so let me explain a little bit. I said that in principle, the plan is good, but everything you said is actually true, but there is nothing to systematically solve when problems arise, so there are no systematic solutions when there are mass violations of consumer protection, consumer rights, and that's a big problem, and I was also talking about it. I was talking about that after a collective verdict that found that the interest was not settled properly, the problem was not solved. Neither after amending the Consumer Credit Act nor after last year I proposed a way to resolve it. And I'm just going to tell you how it got rid of countries close to us that had the same problem. So Serbia, a country that is not in the EU at all, in 2011 without a trial, determines on the basis of their consumer protection association's application that banks have negotiated in all loans, almost all loans, an indeterminate way of changing the interest rate and what does Serbia do then, what does their central bank do? Their central bank proposes the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services and states in that law, provided that the bank has not agreed on data for the way the interest rate is changed, such a bank shall not apply any other interest rate other than that which is equal to or less than the initial agreed interest rate until it has correctly agreed on the interest rate. What did Hungary do? In all such loans in which such interest rate was agreed, Hungary found that banks must display the interest rate as a formula consisting of a fixed part of one plus... And my proposal wasn't so radical and it didn't go through. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Systemic solutions in Croatia for consumer protection do not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71374	The Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71375	My friend Alexic, you know as well as I do why your proposal didn't go through. You are the opposition representative. And those horns stand on your head like they do me. And we're not going through that door called the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposals. We're always stuck. When you stop thinking about who's proposing than when you start talking about the measure of things, it'll be easier. I honestly have to tell you, I was hoping Mrs. Martina Dalic's arrival, back when she became a minister, given that he was somehow perceived as a liberal, that some things would be put in place. Today's responsible liberal is not a savage. The responsible liberal is the man who takes care of the harmonisation of those three pillars of the rights I spoke of. The right to free competition, the right of employees to a fair remuneration for the work and rights of consumers. I don't see it in this term. Either it goes left or it goes right, someone gets it all the time and we stop talking about Agrokor because I think parallel to this while we're talking, the Committee on Economy is currently the most attractive point in Croatia because there are people out there who want to ask about heroic health and Minister Dalic and Prime Minister Ramljak. But now, if you were in HDZ, then you'd be closer to the altar, you'd hear the mass better, and you'd appreciate what you're saying. In these cases where you were the initiator of change, there's nothing else I can say but it's about caprica because the court practice shows you're right about all these cases. And why is it not easier for the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government to cut through these things and say it is just, but also the case law shows? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71376	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71377	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Beus, here you are as well established as in Croatia consumers are at all levels shouting like Musa and the goat. Whatever segment you look at, it's trying to stop it, if it's possible to do something that the consumer has paid for. Unfortunately, some people do not manage and even pay for these purposes. Here I once had the opportunity and help of some people and referred them to a consumer association that really helped them not pay for what they paid for. But the thing is that today, Croatia's consumer of wide goods, broad consumption, is kind of safe with the changes in packaging itself, and when you try to find that declaration and read what you need, it's so small letters that even those with the best eyesight can't see it, and I think it would be funny to carry with you to the store to actually see what you've bought, where it came from, which is the composition, whether someone when you lower the price has fooled you in the composition or something else. The banks are a special issue, but I am not surprised because here is the Minister of Economy coming from the banking sector and will certainly not bother to oppose the banks as well as the entire Croatian government, regardless of whose it was, the banks are privileged to us as if this was their country and they are the ones who gave this Croatian man the most to say through this Swiss franc loan, but also in all other ways possible. So you can't pay anyone's salary in cash today, but everything has to go through the bank, everyone has to have at least one bank account, and that's certainly when it comes very well. Our Croatian consumer is in a very, very bad position today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71378	The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71379	Not only fellow Lenart, that our Croatian consumer is a sheep for haircuts, but also a watchful fool rarely. So, how many times have you seen or heard that, let's say, the trader glues the other one over one declaration, so change that original term to some new one or, say, a declaration printed on very unquality paper with extremely fine letters, let's say, covers the original information about the nutritional properties of a particular product. Not to talk about making fools of us when we go to the store, say, in bigger chains, so we're selling rotten goods under the first class. So whenever you go to inspection centres in that section called fruit and vegetables, it's always a scandal and it's always a drama. But you've never heard anyone shut the door about it. Have you ever heard of a trade chain that advertises action in a way that values something that costs 18.99 and then puts red in 18.99. So there's no discount, but it's just a fraud and a lie, so anyone shut the door for it. You're not. 'Cause that's the hand that washes my hand, and that's the face of both of you. When you heard that the Ministry of Economy reacted to the famous financial bonuses of Konzum, where workers of various companies are given bonuses that can only be used in Konzum. Isn't that an eclectic violation of consumer rights to buy wherever they want and what they want? No, he's being forced to pay, not only to receive in non-money, but to spend in that part with only one seller. So who ever went to Konzum to pull their ears out at the top of their head and tie the bow? No one ever, that's why we're where we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71380	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71381	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Beus Richembergh. So, you've said a few things that I can really agree with, and I think I've also mentioned in that first line of mine, the Secretary of State, that I'm also agreeing that this national programme has just been adopted so quickly, without any particular investment in some thinking. So here's what I've mentioned, so from one entire resistor, the Ministry of Environment and Energy is simply thrown out the whole, whole chapter on energy. You also said and I agree and it really should be noted. So we're talking about the 2017 programme, and here we are from 17 to 2020, and actually we're already fat in that first year, so here we are already behind. What I particularly fell into and the rest of that memory, you were talking about this very, very difficult position of consumers, of all consumers in Croatia. So here's what I'd like to point to you at one more thing, so what this program really doesn't run, it doesn't run otherwise, it doesn't have any action plan, no analysis, no action plan. It also does not mention at all one particularly sensitive consumer group, such as older people. Tell me please, yes, and you may have come across a similar example, and here I am quite often. So the language that explains anything is very, very incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71382	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71383	Dear colleagues, yes, there have been cases like this and I know about them. Older people usually find it more difficult to get along especially in small letters, especially in terms of professional expressions and need regular support. But just because we've established together that this National Programme proposal is incomplete, that it skips extremely important topics, that the whole area has neither touched nor opened, that there is no measure, that there is no measurable action plan. As a club of GLAS, we will give tomorrow a proposal to conclude that this proposal of the national programme is returned to the proposer, so to come to another reading. I think the debate we've been having all day has been high enough for the promoters if the goodwill and sincere intentions are all that we've talked about today in the final version and then come in a month with something that's going to be higher, which is going to be more concrete and where there's going to be a simple chodogram of an activity plan to see if any of what's been proclaimed as a goal is achieved and to what extent. And to change this from 2018 to 2021 in the best way. I'm not saying that that's what the Department of Economy did with some bad intention. They're just bureaucrats, they don't know how to write differently. There's no God knows what kind of creators, there's some there and there, but apparently he wasn't near when this national program was written. There are no ambitious people who will say, people this is a problem, these are possible ways of solving it, these are the deadlines we have to reach. Support us as a SDP club in making this conclusion, and I suggest that everyone else especially from the HDZ Club because the release of such a programme is really bad and missing. Let's fix it, we got time, it's nothing on our heads, it's not gonna trap the sky on our heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71384	Thank you. I didn't know you moved into the SDP club, but good because you said support us as a SDP club. But now, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71385	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The national programme is just a letter on paper, there are no systematic solutions for consumer protection, there is no way, measures, activities. When it is already found that there is a significant violation of a group of consumers that has a significant number, there are no such measures and activities that would lead things to the right track. So we have Directive 93/13. Directive 93/13 states that the contractual provisions which were not negotiated, which later caused the imbalance of rights and obligations, to the detriment of consumers, that such contractual provisions are unfair and therefore harmful and that this Directive is clear as a day. So consumers are more protected than other structures of society. And why are they more protected? Because all EU citizens are consumers, all EU citizens are consumers, all of them. The EU recognises the importance of consumer protection because the EU understands that all capitalism rests on consumer rights. Capital cannot be successful if consumers do not have purchasing power, and consumers cannot have purchasing power unless they are maximum protected in their rights. And what happens in the Republic of Croatia? This is not happening in Europe west of us. What's going on in the Republic of Croatia? The following thing is happening, based on Directive 93/13 of the Law on Mandatory Relations, on the basis of the Consumer Protection Act, a verdict was made in the collective court dispute on 13 June 2014 which decided and unequivocally found that a large group of consumers, according to my assessment, were more than 200 thousand consumers who negotiated loans with Croatian banks damaged because they were contracted by the Croatian banks with unfair and thus injure contractual provisions on how to change the interest rate. And please stop talking about Swiss because I'm not talking about Swiss at all. It's not about the franc, it's about the interest. It has been rightly established that it has been unfair and unscathed, justifiably, the franc has not yet been legally solved, but I hope it will be. So it's about interest. After such an unequivocal verdict, consumers remain to go to courts and claim their rights in courts. And consumers all who go to courts generally get their rights. But consumers don't go to large numbers of courts, it's about 200 thousand people at least, and at this point it's going to be around 4000 court disputes over the overpaid interest. 4000, so that's 2% of all those consumers that are damaged. Banks are now counting on consumers not to go to courts because the court process is slow because it costs. It doesn't cost at the end, but those three, four years until it gets to the right it costs and the consumer has to allocate 5 to 10 thousand kuna to pay the court's expenses and lawyers until the end of the trial, to a final verdict. And that's exactly what banks count on not having consumers go to courts and they're actually right. Of these 4,000 consumers or 5,000 may have filed their private lawsuits by now, perhaps 300 have already received first-degree rulings, and 10 have already been given the power of judicial judgments. So the case law is clear, it is relevant, it is powerful, after such a powerful case-law the Government of the Republic of Croatia last year does not accept my proposal to solve this problem systematically. What kind of government is this, what kind of government is this, what kind of state should sovereignly protect the rights of its citizens? The sovereign country has the right to solve the problem systematically on the basis of the relevant court scratch so that citizens do not go to court. But not only that, it also found in that judgment that banks should not behave in the future in the same way. But what's going on? Banks continue to behave, banks continue to apply in over 100,000 remaining loans a variable interest rate in which interest rate change parameters have been defined outside contractually, voluntarily, without agreement and without agreement with the debtor. And HNB says it's okay, says Vice Governor Fraz, so that's okay, and Vice Governor Fraz is a lawyer who used to work for banks. And most of the former bankers are sitting in the CNB. The finance ministry says that's okay, and the finance minister is Zdravko Maric, who came from a large corporation. So all corporate players and such people, of course, protect corporations. And they are not aware of the EU's right to say they should protect consumers because corporations must know their rights and must not damage consumers. Why are we like this? Why can't we be sovereign? Why were people in the trenches in the 1990s? To have a sovereign Republic. But we don't have a sovereign Republic, we have an RH owned by merchants, and consumers who make up a whole nation because they're all consumers and even traders at certain times they're unprotected and many say so who's to blame so who's to blame you for signing it and taking it. And those who talk like that have no idea. I'm going to say that they are total, total malpractice when it comes to law because what we have signed is unlawfully agreed and the law protects the one who has contracted with the stronger party something that should not have been negotiated in such a way. That is exactly what Directive 93/13 is. Once again, she says, if someone has agreed with the consumer a contractual provision which has not been negotiated, the contractual provision subsequently caused a imbalance in the rights and obligations to the consumer, then such a contractual provision is unfair and therefore harmful. And we just have this in a collective court trial established but we don't have a systematic solution that all debtors who have negotiated such a contractual provision are compensated. We've got a new problem coming up, and soon, the High Court of Commerce will decide on the CHF currency clause. 7 countries in the EU have found the CHF currency clause to be unfair and, therefore, it is not valid. It is agreed in the same way as in Croatia. The EU Court of Justice ruled C186/16 clearly laid down the criteria on which national courts must be conducted when determining whether the currency clause is agreed in a fair manner. France, Spain, Germany, Slovenia, Greece, Romania, all those countries that have established the power of power, that the CHF currency clause in them has been spoken in an unfair way and that is why Austria is also a failure, I forgot to tell Austria. Austria is most interesting because the Austrian Bank has just launched the general process of the currency clause in Croatia, Erste Bank. Erste Bank, therefore, has run the entire system. Otherwise, the Austrians did a lot of damage in the Republic of Croatia, a lot of damage, their corporations, thanks to their permission. They're still acting like this is Austro-Hungarian, yeah, yeah, just because we let them do it, that's all. In Croatia, part of the financial occupation of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, banks took at least 10 billion kunas to Croatian citizens through illegal interest rates, at least. They took about 15 billion kuna through the CHF currency clause, based on the exchange rate difference. 7.5 billion kunas have already been returned through conversion, but the other 7.5 billion kunas must be returned, after the High Court of Commerce and I believe it will, to determine that the CHF currency clause has been negotiated in an unfair manner and therefore is worthless. However, I am almost certain that he will determine this, because what I have been saying so far, this environment, the EU court, the rights of consumers, must be so. But imagine, of all countries east of Slovenia, however, one country has negotiated a somewhat correct interest rate, e.g. Serbia. They have a part of the contract that's well-arranged. And it's interesting that Slovenia, from our former region, let's say, no one likes to say it, but we were in the common state. Slovenia, it does not have an unlawfully agreed interest rate. How's that? How is it that Slovenia does not have an unlawfully agreed interest rate? And what's going on? The banks claim there was no regulation. There was a regulation, the Law on Mandatory Relations, and he made it clear that the contractual act must be specific. So, by the way, they had a greater and better opportunity to negotiate it the right way than they do now. Because they had no strict limits at the time, but were able to interpret it a little wider and could negotiate it with debtors on the basis of more elements than is now prescribed by the Consumer Credit Act. So they could take more parameters, which exist on the market. Now these parameters are limited. And what's going on? The Franak Association, which won a truly huge victory, but through the consumer association, because it is not legitimate for these processes, does not get the right from the Ministry of Economy to be legitimateized for future such processes. All it takes is for the Ministry of Economy to propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia a decision to designate the Franak Association as a legitimate applicant for the collective court proceedings, to protect the users of financial services. The economy doesn't want to do that. They're getting away the way we're supposed to be, us, I'm still a member of Franak's association and I'm still volunteering at Franak's. So, I'm not just doing this job, I'm volunteering at Franak's, so are we supposed to be part of the roof organization, and then we get those rights? The association that spent, I said, at least 500,000 kuna, on court proceedings and other activities related to the protection of consumers who are damaged by the illegal activities of Croatian banks, out of their own pocket, not out of the state pocket, such an association that is not financed at all from the state, does not get some well-founded right to sue on behalf of the consumer, risking itself to lose the process and to be shut down. Because if she loses the process, she shuts down, she has to spend all her money on the lawsuit. So she takes all the risk. So I appeal once again to the Ministry of Economy to do something about it. The Franak Association will propose a public debate to be established in the Assembly, the Consumer Protection Committee. That committee already exists in the Euro Parliament, so I think it would be good if we did. I've launched the Europarliamentaries of Mrs. Shujic and Mrs. Borzan to help me with that, to make them lobby a little on top of that thing. So, I have the lobbying open. I don't lobby anything closed, under the table, you know. So now I'm lobbying with you, too, to deal with the Consumer Protection Committee through the Rules of Procedure. I do not claim either for the president, nor for the vice president, I do it for myself, I do it for Croatian citizens, it is necessary for Croatian citizens. I hope that you will find it appropriate to do so and that you will do so, support and now, in the end, the only thing you would like to say, that I am extremely proud and happy, to the fact that I learned recently, the President of the Croatian Helsinki Committee Mr. Ivan Zvonimir Čičak, informed me that me and the Franak Association received last year's Human Rights Award Mirko Tripoli for an outstanding contribution to the protection of human rights. I, as an official and a politician for my contribution that exceeds what is done here in the Parliament, invites all of you who can come tomorrow at 6:00 at the National and University Library award ceremony. The President of the Republic will be present to give the speech and to award those awards. And I think that's exactly the reward that proves that all I'm saying is not an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71386	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71387	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, fellow Alexic, I really appreciate your struggle for a Croatian consumer who, unfortunately, is slowly powerless to what is happening in Croatia. You say that consumers should seek rights in courts, but unfortunately who of the young people believes more in Croatian courts and in justice that can be brought by Croatian courts every day when we witness such bad judgments by Croatian courts, that man cannot believe that judgments are passed and that some people pass through Croatian justice. Unfortunately, the law in the Republic of Croatia is like a spider web to you. It's got tiny flies in it, and the bumblebees are flying through it. We see how the government itself treats consumers through the executive law that they do not want to change in any way that it is not to the benefit of lawyers and public notaries but to the harm of the Croatian people. Unfortunately, this same government refers to the people of my generation, so they read Alan Ford as Super Hick when he went crazy at one point, so he started robbing the poor and giving to the rich. Unfortunately, there is also a saying in the Croatian people that says God and Croats, shut up and pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71388	Something will say now, distinguished representative Goran Aleksic. It's hard to say the answer, because there were no questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71389	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lenart, however, in this case when you have mentioned the courts and the judiciary judgments are passed properly. So I pointed out the problem of a systematic problem solution for some other reasons why consumers do not want to go to court. So I have to commend the courts, the courts are doing their job in this case quality. I still have to argue that it's a little slow, that this situation with Frank hasn't been solved yet, and it should have been resolved, but I hope it'll be settled soon. So I'll only tell you one case of a judge I know. You see that judge I know arranged a loan in one bank in 2007, and I'm asking her, so fine if you're going to sue the bank. She says I won't. But you are aware that the bank has agreed on an illegal way of changing interest rates. Well, of course I am, so I've made such judgments about it. Well, then why won't you sue the bank? Do you know what the judge told me? Well, don't let me back out in court. Look, the judge says I don't want to be pulled out of court, and we expect consumers to go looking for their rights to the courts. So they won't go looking for their rights to the courts, they won't. There's going to be a smaller part. And among you there are representatives who have raised your loans before 2013 and who have an unlawfully agreed way of changing the interest rate, which was subsequently increased by the bank's decision. And you all have the right to sue the bank and get your money. The final verdict from Pula is 184,000 kuna plus tight interest. That is a total of 280 000 kuna, and the loan is not some huge 150 000 euros. Well, don't. And you could, you're the representatives. But these little people under quotes won't go to court, so we have to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71390	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First came the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Next is Honorable Representative Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71391	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. The proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017 to 2018 means one three-year period. We've been discussing him today all morning. It is an extremely important document that contains useful content for our citizens. Consumer protection today covers an increasingly wider range of areas, which is of course related to day-to-day changes and innovations in the market. Thus, it is necessary to regularly improve and adapt this system to new situations or to potential difficulties. The programme itself points out that consumer protection policy in the Republic of Croatia will focus on further development of consumer protection standards during this three-year period, which includes a whole range of measures and stakeholders that should be directly or indirectly involved in this. And this document thoroughly and well-developed all aspects of the implementation of this policy, and here I would highlight some of them's primary area that gradually takes over the leading position and in the form of presentation and sales of products and services is definitely Internet shopping, which however popular and rapidly growing at the same time is the environment in which consumers are still not able to easily and quickly achieve their consumer rights. There are numerous examples of consumers who, when ordering something via the Internet, encounter too many prices to deliver different terms of sale or increasingly known geoblocking. Therefore, the protection of Internet purchases itself requires new access and new measures that are partly represented in this proposal, such as a trust mark or a regulation on the problem of geographical blocking. When it comes to consumer rights on the Internet recently, one piece of information has been published, that globally 148 million people use the Internet to book their tours and accommodations, which accounts for 57% of the total number of booking. And besides, over the past five years, the number of on-line reservations has increased by 73%. I point out this because Croatia, as a tourist country, needs to develop its system of protection and those consumers who plan their journey, book on the Internet, and exactly by implementing the EU Directive in our national legislation on travel in package arrangements, will strengthen this consumer confidence, remove certain obstacles in cross-border cooperation and contribute to a higher level of consumer rights protection especially when they buy through the Internet. Of course, in a number of cases, citizens know that their rights have been violated, violated, but they do not know exactly what to do and who to finally address. For this reason, I believe it is necessary to work to raise awareness of consumer rights, but also to advise consumers on the steps they can take. One such useful project is already being implemented, and this is called consumer advice. And although it really is a useful and accessible statistical project, it shows that the number of tips provided from 2015 to 2016 has dropped by about 6000. This just says that implementation of the project is not enough unless there is a quality of frequency and visible promotion. As I mentioned in my presentation, the advantages and benefits of the measures announced or reiterated by this national programme are indeed numerous. However, the quality framework for solving problems or difficulties will never fully live up to what it should be if it is not sufficiently informed about those to whom it is intended. I consider consumers here, but also producers themselves. That is why I would like to stress once again the importance of carrying out an adequate and clearly accessible education of citizens, as well as business entities on their rights, but also on their duties and obligations, i.e. to carry out all the activities that are actually foreseen by this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71392	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71393	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Mikulic, counselling is groundless after there has already been a violation of the law. No one in your ranks speaks of systematic solutions, that people come to their rights when they are already broken. And no counselling will help the consumer to know whether a trader has left out any information in a contract. The contract has 1,000 sentences. The consumer cannot know from these 1,000 sentences whether there is a missing sentence. This must be known by the trader and the trader must not leave out that sentence. And if the trader leaves out that sentence, then the trader is guilty and then the trader has to answer and then the trader has to damage the consumer because of the damage suffered by the consumer. This is the way to communicate in the direction of the Government, the Parliament, the executive authority and the legislative authority on the basis of the established negative harmful practices of traders must propose systematic solutions, systematic solutions such as this was a solution in the case of francs. It is an exception that confirms rules that we do not have a systematic solution but a systematic solution such as Hungary, which I mentioned turned an illegal interest into a legal provision and Serbia that did so. We had an attempt at the end of 2013 and it ended with a debacle because it allowed banks to define separately and unilaterally and outside contractually the parameters for changing the interest rate, not to discuss it with consumers and not to negotiate it. And the law stipulates that they will be punished for it and some are also punished for it, but too little compared to how much they have violated consumer rights. Unfortunately, we do not work on systematic solutions based on relevant case-law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71394	Thank you. Dear Representative Domagoj Mikulic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71395	Dear Representative Alexic, I agree with you in a large majority. We are all aware of the fact that the system itself has not responded adequately in certain situations, and this is exactly what I believe to the Ministry of Economy, but also this national framework with one clear goal, which is to protect ourselves as consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71396	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Goddess Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I was listening to your debate and what you said in the debate is consumer information, it's actually informing consumers about their rights. We all learned during a certain period during which we listened to anything related to the trade that the customer, or consumer, is always right. And we when we're in the role of consumers actually feel that way, we're right. But are we informed how to protect that right of our own, or to get certain satisfactions if someone defiled us, if someone deceived us, if he didn't give us good information, if he didn't give us enough information. I personally believe that there is much regulation in this law that is necessary to regulate it from this area of consumer protection. There are normally a number of other laws that need to regulate this area of consumer protection. Here we have today in the parliamentary debate of the Law on Payments, where the EU Directive 2015/2366 is just being implemented. which speaks of greater security precisely in this new way of selling, which is online sales and everything that is related to electronic payments and everything else associated with it. We are aware that with this most consumers are damaged in that part, we are also aware of the theft of data that needs to be regulated again through another law, so I base my view that a lot of this is regulated here and well regulated. You've looked back at that part, so eventually if you can still get out of that segment whether there's something missing in this part of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71398	The answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71399	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as regards information in 2015, the Commission has even invested certain resources and has been involved in informing consumers about consumer protection and that this has been a good indicator and a good way to protect consumers themselves and to introduce them to their rights, speeches and facts, as I have already mentioned in my debate, that the number of people who have reported for advice has been significantly higher than what is said today. And that problem itself, which later appeared that the number of citizens who received the advice, had rarely decided on court proceedings that require certain financial resources and times, etc., so that they gave up on their own let's say that they were pushing their rights. However, this proposal is also addressed by what is in the proposal that alternative methods will solve certain problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71400	Thank you very much. We move on to the next individual debate and this is the respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71401	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In fact, consumer protection can be talked about a lot because each of us, as we have heard, is a consumer and more than once a day, whether we are buying a product or a service, but in my debate, I would first refer to a segment that has received special attention in this programme and that is consumer protection in the collection and transport of waste. We will all agree that the price should be transparent, appropriate, that no consumer, any of our citizens should pay for a service that they did not receive, so that since we have to comply with the EU, that the price should be dependent on the amount of waste being driven away. However, in my debate, I would not draw attention to the protection of those consumers, for example. They don't stay at their beach house for six months, so now they're going to have to bear some expenses, or they're going to say and often say that it's not right for them to pay, for example. the disposal of waste from their facility when they were not staying in their facility. The same is said in this programme that when the price is formed, it should be taken into account that the costs of the purchase and maintenance of equipment, transport and processing of waste, construction of waste management buildings, etc. And now a practical example. So, in a cottage located in a edged village, and we have such facilities very much on the coast, namely I come from Vodice, from Sibenik-Knin County, but we all have problems like this that we have somewhere on the coast and we don't know when its owner will be staying in it, meaning once a week or twice a week, a vehicle with a driver, with an employee working on the transport of waste, has to get to that building, open the can, and see that there's nothing in it that causes certain and quite a lot of costs. Is it fair, then, that I appeal here on behalf of our citizens of the domestic population, I would say to those pensioners who mostly stay especially in those smaller coastal areas, that they bear the cost of the purchase of both the vehicle and the costs of the fuel and the workers who work to get to each of that remote facility? Every year there are more and more of these beach holiday houses, these costs are increasing and there are fewer people staying in these settlements, which means that we, with our laws, with regulations should take care of and protect the local population. Another thing about waste disposal, namely the Environmental Protection Fund, to in some ways stimulate cities and municipalities, wants to calculate and calculate the so-called price. Incentive compensation for reducing the quantity of mixed municipal waste. For the reference year, taken in 2015, the town of Vodice is often highlighted as a good example, which in time started solving such problems and sure that in our reference 2015 compared to today, it cannot have such a shift as one city of Zagreb can have because in Vodice we are already separating paper and plastics until it is still resolved in the city of Zagreb. When I mentioned the coasts, then another segment would like to talk about, which is tourism. This is one branch of the economy that we all talk about very much about, this year we record and 13% higher arrivals, overnight stays, our Sibenik-Knin County also records in all cities and a total of 13&% more arrivals, the town of Vodice even 15% higher, which says enough that these guests who are also consumers are quite satisfied with our services. I think that both the ministries as a promoter and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and this Parliament are even a little over-rigorous to the service providers when it comes to hotel houses, caterers, merchants, small tenants and the like because the law allows an inspector to enter an object, he can also count the hangers in the closet, so if he doesn't find 4 as much as prescribed, punish. At the same time next to it the facility has unregistered activity. The facility must not be entered by a market inspector, the tourist inspector must not enter, and he has one single offense, working on black. And he who has a registered activity, he is controlled by a minimum of 5 inspections and can be punished by that hanger, hooks at the door, hot water, towels, number of towels in the bedroom, etc. I think there is a great responsibility at the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to protect both consumers and our citizens and guests, as well as our businessmen, to better regulate this relationship of work on black and those who provide services with which our customers are generally the most dissatisfied consumers, i.e. guests. A moment ago, in the replica, I appealed and here, once again, we know that inspections on the ground cannot be coordinated, given that they are inspections, which are responsible for their ministries, which is then within 5 ministries. Well, then we have different cases on the ground, I don't know, at some facility there's a pizza sale, so now it's no longer known if it's a service when it's a pizza sale or it's a store, so it's a market inspector's jurisdiction or it's black, so it's the customs administration and then, of course, after reporting and arriving and one inspection, the inspection has to go back to his office, send an email to the other one, etc. Not to say they didn't have enough vehicles, and it was quite different when he was an economic inspectorate. Then they were all under one hat. There was only one vehicle coming to one location to establish all of them. Here, so much in the shortest lines, so please consider these suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71402	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71403	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Branka, you've listed everything well in your presentation, so let's not say it again, I'm just interested in some summary, here's because in the end, that most of today's debates, we agree that this document is, uh, angle. quality with certain objections. The largest part is how many Croatians and consumers are protected and why they are not protected in the area where they are not. What is sold on the Croatian market, and how much is it controlled? And how high is the Croatian market with products compared to the EU market? But what you've opened in one of your previous replicas is a matter of state inspectorate. And that's what I'm curious about, actually, is the opinion of the Ministry of Economy. So, it was once the central body of the state administration and we know that it seems to me until 1.1.2014 until the law that changed the structure of the ministry, the state inspectorate was the central body. And now some of those jobs have been transferred to the ministry and as far as I know, that's the market inspection sector. And then these jobs, in fact, are assigned to 5 district units, Zagreb, Osijek, Rijeka, Split, Varazdin and this is not only true of goods from Croatia, but also of goods supplied with EU trade-based offices. And now perhaps we should consider and review, how much is this model, which was introduced in 2014 in view of all these remarks that we heard in today's debate on this document, which for the next three-year period, how adequate is this market inspection model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71404	The Honorable representative Juričev Martinchev will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71405	Thank you very much, well-respected MPs, and then the HDZ Club was against such a proposal because it demanded great costs, we warned it would be a trom. It was interesting to hear, a colleague who spoke in front of the SDP Club who said that now this fragmentation and incoordination on the ground is affecting the lack of protection, i.e. the lack of information of our consumers. Since 1.1.2014 this has been divided under 5 ministries. So now we have under the Ministry of Finance, Agriculture, Tourism, Economy and Labour. It required over-costs after that, it took 5 vehicles in some cities where it worked with one vehicle so far. For example. in Sibenik Knin County, we now have 2 tourist inspectors, who drive their own car for official purposes in winter, and in summer they get car rental car rentals. At the same time, market inspection or labour inspection is going to the same place. So we just multiplied the costs, and we got far more unquality services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71406	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71407	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Yurichev, I agree with your debate, so it doesn't turn out now that I'm just talking against the merchants. So, little merchants really have big problems, just what you were saying, no hanger, let's get 1000 kuna fines, 2000, I don't know how big a nose has to pay the fine. He doesn't like the inspection, he has to pay the fine. So, we have a situation where we're punishing this little merchant for a little thing, we have a situation where a corporation that robs on the basis of relevant court practice found that we're not punishing her too. However, we have a situation where the High Court of Violation decided not to punish banks if they only sent a notice of parameters, although the law undoubtedly found that they had to negotiate those parameters. So I'm asking myself a question, is it possible that someone is lobbying at the High Violent Court, so that they judge the acquittal for the benefit of the banks? We need to separate the misdemeanor court from the civil courts. Civil courts do their job extremely well, they're a little slow, but they're more quality. But the High Violent Court is in great trouble liberating banks, which must be punished by large fines from 80,000 to 200000 kuna, while the inspection on the other hand punishes a man for having a long nose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71408	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71409	Thank you very much, colleague Alexic, you said well, indeed, a small merchant, a small caterer, is trying to do the best and the best of quality and protect your guest to get it back. He has no legal service, and we see that in our Parliament, we bring, vote, according to 10, 12 new laws, it is almost impossible for him to follow. And that's why she would appeal to the inspection at this time to warn her for the first time in such surveillance, and not immediately punish her. On the other hand, we have big ones who have not strong lawyers, but strong lawyers who stand behind them and who you know very well how to find a hole in the law, not to mention when they get into trouble and commit very well and respond to complaints, lawsuits and something like that that keeps them permanently protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71410	Thank you very much. The last individual debate is those respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71411	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, honorary secretary of state with an associate. Here's because I'm very, very summed up in the end. This document, which the Government brings, we know, is being adopted on the basis of Article 100 of the Consumer Protection Act, and we have heard what are the remarks, or praises, or arguments for both. What is personally important to me as a consumer and as a representative is, in every sense, strengthening the control system of products that we import into Croatia. And here I think it's usually one of the crucial mechanisms covered by this document. What is very important is the labelling of products, especially food and cosmetics. And I am glad that we are connected with EU member states and through several applications and that we are working through that network of cooperation and consumer protection. And I would like that cooperation to be even more up-to-date in the sense that an even greater number of products are put on that list and that then our consumers are truly aware of the dangers that this product brings. What may be sad at the same time and some MPs have warned that we can have a perfect national mechanism, or programme, or strategy. But he often schedules a human factor, so it's crucial how the inspectors work, whether they work well. Those inspectors who work consciously should be commended and rewarded, and others, according to their merits, should be questioned. What is important is to warn that, despite all education and information, citizens often do not know who to address, and unfortunately, this is a situation in practice despite the great effort and engagement of both the ministry and certain bodies involved in the implementation of these programmes. You should tell the citizens if you have suspicion of fraud, if you bought something on the line, if you bought goods in a store or a product, a device, anything you think is not in line with what you gave the money for, you need to know that the current ministry is the address you're reporting to, i.e. The market inspection sector, i.e. the Board of Inspectors. Why am I saying that? So precisely because in everyday life, so to speak, I come to the conclusion that many citizens are not really aware of these woods of various regional offices, institutions, agencies they no longer know who to address. And do you know who they most often address? TV. Because they think that if I get on TV there's some kind of show on HRT Consumer code and certain commercial TVs have similar shows, then at least they'll hear about it and someone's gonna deal with it if they don't. Unfortunately, they don't answer to anyone whose job it is. And one of the reasons is this, and we heard the same from previous discussions that a certain part of our citizens still lost confidence in institutions and then often think twice before they turn to the institution and not think twice before they turn to television. What's important is to say and mention this Rapex system. It's an extremely good system. It's an exchange of information between countries. And all these products that are marked there we must be aware they are probably also in Croatia and as far as I see from now reports for the last three years about 500 products for this three-year reporting period are marked as dangerous. And what's especially terrible to say is products that are mostly children's equipment, toys, clothes, electrical devices, imitations of various lasers, lighting bodies, etc. Mostly everything children can get in touch with, and it's particularly dangerous. And it is also dangerous that these are cosmetic products which, of course, are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, but also mobile phones, which is again in the jurisdiction of HACOM. This means that all of this potentially dangerous should be well thought out and regularly updated by the Rapex system and put products more frequently on that list and that Croatia is actually moving forward with any country where the product has been discovered as potentially dangerous. So if he was discovered yesterday in Ukraine, then he should be immediately in Croatia today. And what is also important in the end to say that toys, cosmetics, jewelry, shoes and clothing, electrical products, lamps, lighters and home appliances are highlighted in this Rapex system as most often potentially dangerous and sometimes not potentially dangerous but also proven dangerous products, which are sold throughout the EU countries' markets, including Croatia. I've already said that this system is extremely good. And what is still to be said during the reporting period of the three years Croatian sanitary inspection, so the food products were carried out more than 2500 controls, acting precisely on complaints under this Rapex system. If you ask me yourself and I believe some others, that number should be far and far higher, because we know the more control, of course conscious control, that's less damage to consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71412	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71413	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, at the beginning of your presentation, you said something wrong, and that has now moved me to replicate it for you. But it's wrong, actually, it's true. You said the government's bringing in a national program, and that's true. The government brings in the program, and the law, everything the government brings in. We formally confirm it, but it brings the government into the truth. If we were really a legislative body, if we really brought everything we bring, then consumer protection would be at the top, and then we wouldn't have anything to talk about today because everything was already settled. However, the truth is that the government informally brings about everything voted by the Croatian Parliament and it is actually a major problem in democracy and it is not actually called democracy, but rather called the vision of democracy. And because of this perception of democracy, consumers are not protected and will not be protected until we finally begin to respect the arguments, the arguments that I present every day almost in the Parliament, naturally, the arguments that are based on court practice. So, I'm not talking from my stomach, I'm not talking about... I'm not talking about not knowing what, about scaring "grandmother horns," I'm talking exclusively reasoned. And no one in my argument has killed me so far. And those who spread spynns to banks in the media were always running away from me when the 3rd ball went into some studio. That running away is proof that they have no arguments. So I appeal to all of us to become a true legislative body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71414	A respected representative, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71415	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, I personally have no problem admitting that I have violated the rights of consumers in Croatia, and even in this segment for which you are fighting. I don't have a problem with that at all. But we must also be aware that there is no country in the world or in the European Union that has no problem in breaching consumer rights. Utopia is that you said that we wouldn't have anything to discuss here today, because there's no state to discuss. Of course, we as a legislative body and each representative should personally strive to have as little discussion as possible on this subject. I listened carefully to your presentation that was before and I would say it more perhaps through a psychological dimension yes, and perhaps the psychological dimension is in terms of the state of Croatian society and certain critical points that your exposure actually made it known that in one part of the Croatian population there is so-called. A corrupt gene and that's why one part of the problem is practically indecisive that we inherit from the past. If you have stated that Slovenia is a positive example of how you stated in your presentation if I understand it well, and even Serbia that it is a more positive example than Croatia, then it is really devastating that in Croatia if your exposure to this human factor is so critical. That's what we all need to imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71416	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts Mrs Natasa Mikush Zigman will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, here I would only like to thank everyone for the content debate on behalf of the promoter. She was long, very rich in suggestions and criticisms on the other hand that we feel we should continue to take seriously in our work. A number of important topics have been opened. A number of important examples from the practice I think prove that this particular topic is important for each of us. So, we're all consumers, we're all daily interacting with consumers through several times, and it also seems to me that the debate has shown to me how inter-resorious this topic is, that it relates to both the area and the food, and telecommunications, and energy, the Internet trade that is becoming more and more important in the forms of purchase as we practice in modern society. So, the Ministry as a horizontal holder of this policy certainly what has been taken seriously today and in its work, in cooperation with bodies that are competent and for these areas will continue to work actively to find a solution to consumer problems. I'd like to look back at two things that were highlighted during the debate on several occasions. One of these is a matter of inspection. The government understands and accepts that the work of inspection services in the way it is now organised, so we have already said the consequences of some of the decisions that were made during 2014. It is not the most effective and rational reason why it really happens to one entrepreneur in inspections to come after 5, 6, sometimes 10 inspections and then one that sees that certain irregularities can not actually be done, but rather informs the other body responsible for carrying out this type of inspection. It is precisely this clue that solutions are found to make this system more effective so that the hanger would not be punished by the entrepreneur, but would go preventively and with warnings, and then if the inspection order were not followed, then the penalty would only follow. So these are the solutions that are currently under consideration, and I am sure that there will be a better, more effective solution for carrying out inspection controls that will then allow inspections to be more effective, faster and better actually serve purposes and ultimately help consumers' rights. The second thing I would like to stress is that, therefore, the central state administration, the state public administration certainly has a large part of its responsibilities in protecting consumer rights. However, I would also like to say that there seems to be a great space for progress in cooperation with local units. Each of you in some way has its own base and here, there are certain obligations under the law that units of local administration have in terms of protecting consumer rights, in terms of informing citizens, supporting the work of associations in the territory of the county or the city or providing space for their work. And on this very trail, as I have stated in the opening statement, so we are working intensively, with the association of cities, to support us in this and to support together through financial and non-financial forms of cooperation to support the work of a consultant that we hold should be more than the current 4. So, in conclusion, we're aware that the space for progress really has a lot, that it's not there, we probably shouldn't be talking about it today, not even in this long time, so things would be much better. And we are ready to work on that, to make consumer rights better protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71418	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71419	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Zigman, here's only one suggestion, and it's related, of course, to this program. Namely, we have in the Republic of Croatia the Law on Unauthorized Advertising, and he thinks he's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economy. I don't know how many inspectors are actually in charge of this area. Because there really is, if you look at television programs, there's a huge number of advertisings, which are not even ethically questionable, where products are advertised in this way, to ignore their main features, and often they're some kind of marginal traits, often bordering it with a good-taste border, so even the Queen of God's pocket, is that how you have an ad. These are the things to be taken into account and the ministry in this context should have protected people from such phenomena, because I think advertising should be primarily appropriate for the audience who listens to it. Why would anyone, or a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, allow me to be approached by someone in a commercial? First of all, we don't know each other, which is, say, these telecommunications commercials, they talk to the viewers on a regular basis. It may fall within the scope of ethics, not only protection, but it should also be taken into account, and I think it's competent, precisely the Ministry of Economy for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71420	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Marinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71421	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State Mikush Zigman, we've heard what you think about inspections and that it's really not good that it's torn up and it's possible that eventually it's going to come back together again. But it seems to me that, when it comes to consumer protection, it's not only the Ministry of Economy, whether it's concerned or what it is, it should generally take care of all consumer types, so here, once again, my appeal, means, when it comes to waste disposal, to protect not only the consumer's rights of the occasional residents, but it does not go to the harm of those permanent residents. For indeed, this way, as is now regulated, could end, that those permanent residents pay those costs, which they have and which they have to do to get a quality service, those occasional residents. Well, here's my request again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71422	Thank you. The next replica, the respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71423	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary Mikush Zigman, you haven't caught the hot potato I was talking about. One hot potato is called a systematic solution to consumer compensation, which is massively damaged by the action of traders. So that's not what you want to do, not even your ministry. That hot potato, it's too hot for you, and you don't talk about it, it's easier to talk about bureaucratic solutions. The other hot potato is called a decision on those bodies that can take lawsuits in collective court proceedings, where one of these bodies, one of those organisations, which should definitely get that right, Franak, where you are not sought by the Franak Association or the money or the space, is absolutely nothing but the right to file a collective lawsuit. And based on that right, this association is actually risking its future. So, in case she presses charges like that, she riskes her money not to risk state money, she doesn't risk anyone else's money, but only her own assets, which she owns. So these two hot potatoes, the Ministry of Economy, are obviously not interested. As a result, we will remain only bureaucratic ways of resolving the rights of consumers, and when systematic violations of consumer rights occur, we will leave each and every one of them to take care of their own destiny, or we will allow corporations to leave the money in their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71424	Thank you very much. I'll conclude the debate on the wheel, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71425	Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for 2017 to 2020 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017 to 2020. Please, let's vote. I find that, most of the votes, 81 votes for, 5 abstentions and 39 votes against, we have adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017 to 2020. The GLAS and HSU Representatives Club has proposed to the Assembly to conclude: First, it is proposed to the Croatian Assembly not to accept the Proposal for a National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017 to 2020 and second, it is proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to draw up and propose a full document concerning the period 2018-2021 and which would form an integral part of an appropriate action plan for achieving the objectives of the programme. In the first draft conclusions, it is without substance to vote because we have adopted the National Consumer Protection Programme for the period 2017 to 2020. in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly parent body. As for the second conclusion, I would now ask the government's representative, State Secretary Natasha Mikush Zigman, to show himself about this proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71426	Thank you very much. The proposal is not accepted in view of the exactly adopted programme for the period 2017 and 2020, but also because this programme is a strategic document which sets out the priorities and consumer protection measures in a number of sectoral areas, it is methodologically designed in accordance with a programme adopted or drawn up by the European Commission. It was also methodologically developed in accordance with the programme adopted by the Government for the period 2013 to 2016. We do not have the right to re-design, therefore, a document or a consumer protection programme, but we hold that it is necessary to concentrate on the implementation of the priorities and measures contained in this programme. I note, therefore, that, in accordance with the specifics, it has been intensified and the work between the resolutions responsible for the implementation of this policy, that intensive cooperation with regional and local administration units, self-government, enhanced work with associations, and on this trail we want to continue to implement the priorities that are contained here. And in the implementation we will certainly take into account most of the proposals that were made yesterday during... The discussions shall, therefore, ensure that they are in the very implementation of the priorities and are carried out, respectively, taken into account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71427	My colleague, Bukarica, tells me that there is no intended explanation for the applicant, because this is not about the amendment, this is the conclusion, but here is the brief one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71428	Thank you very much for your brief goodwill. So it is unusual, first of all, that you put the government's proposal to the vote, not an alternative, made here in Parliament, but well. 90% of colleagues and colleagues were not here for the debate and could not be directly convinced, therefore, that this national programme does not include 2 of the most important areas in which consumer rights are violated, and these are telecommunications services and these are banking services. So this is an incredibly bad document, which doesn't have a single quantifiable measure. We do not know at all what will happen by 2020 and by what criteria it will measure whether we have achieved it or not. And it's amazing that we're bringing documents today for something that should be worth 2017. We propose to the government next week to postpone a national programme, which will apply from 1965 to 1969. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71429	Are you asking us to vote on this? ... But according to the rules, here is the secretary of the plenary session, that we will vote, so on this proposal a conclusion that the government does not accept. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The conclusion did not receive the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71430	Now I would suggest that a united debate, about the next three points, so points, two, three and four. These are the points: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on European social entrepreneurship funds, emergency entrepreneurship, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 283 - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law implementing the regulation of the European Union on European funds of entrepreneurial capital, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 282 - Final proposal of the Alternative Investment Funds Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 183 Do you agree to unite those three points? Yeah. No one's against it. All three acts shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of setting the agenda, we accepted the motion that two legislative proposals be discussed according to an emergency procedure, as I said, and one is in the other reading. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation for all three points? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. So we have the Final Proposal of the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and the two laws that we repeal the Law on the Implementation of Two Regulations. Since the abolition of these two laws is essentially the result of the adoption of the Alternative Investment Funds Act, let me first give a brief explanation of the law we propose to pass, and then only these laws that we repeal existing laws. Therefore, with the aim of the discussion in the second parliamentary reading ahead, we have the Final Proposal for the Law on Alternative Investment Funds. At the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament in October, a conclusion was reached at the beginning of October last year that adopted the Proposal for a Law on Alternative Investment Funds. The initial reason for the creation of this law is to further align it with the acquis in two areas, and this by Directive 65 of 2014 known as MiFID2 Directive. It is therefore necessary to transpose its provisions into the new Capital Market Act, which is under way, and we hope that they will soon be here at the first reading. However, two cross-border business articles of the companies for the management of alternative investment funds that carry out management activities in the portfolio of investment consultation should also be transposed into this Act. Furthermore, the European Commission is asking the Republic of Croatia to transpose one article in the 2011 Directive and concerns the need to include the Alternative Investment Funds Management Company in the consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates. Other provisions of the law have been amended in view of the experience gained in the current legislative framework, as well as the application of best market practices in the area of business of alternative investment funds in the interest of all stakeholders and financial market participants in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, key changes in relation to the current legal solutions were introduced in order to classify an alternative investment fund management company, taking into account the criteria of the size of the assets under the management of the company and the category of investors offering the share of individual alternative investment funds. So, first, as regards the classification of alternative investment fund management companies according to the size of the assets so far, there was only a division into small and large, and now there will be a possible division in three classes and this will be for small, medium and large companies for the management of alternative investment funds that will be determined on the basis of the size of the assets under management. The purpose of the introduction of those categories is to facilitate and simplify the establishment and operation of small and medium-sized companies for the management of alternative investment funds, which is why those categories of managers are exempt from a certain part of the requirements prescribed by this law precisely because they are not obliged to meet all the requirements laid down in this Act and Regulation and are not considered fully in line with the Small and Medium-sized Companies for the management of IFs cannot cross-borderly trade the shares of alternative investment funds, manage alternative investment funds or carry out the ancillary activities provided for in this law in another Member State of the European Union. Second, as regards the category of investors offering the shares of individual IFs so far, there has been a legal division only for professional investors, i.e. credit institutions, insurance companies etc. and small investors, so everyone else who isn't professional investors. This law also introduces qualified investors who are qualified on the basis of their minimum net assets and compulsory deposits in the fund and define two groups of qualified investors. Investors in underlying alternative investment funds and investors in IF risk capital. Two groups of qualified investors have different minimum role values and net assets. It is prescribed that the shares of alternative investment funds managed by a small or medium-sized manager can be offered exclusively to professional or qualified investors. Therefore, these IFs, which are essentially less regulated given the expected potential and higher risk, are prescribed that investors in them can be purely professional or qualified investors. A small and medium-sized company for the management of alternative investment funds must, in its business and in all materials intended for investors, clearly and unequivocally indicate that it is not obliged to apply all the provisions of this law and regulations adopted under this law and to indicate the risks arising from this to investors. Furthermore, the possibility of establishing a closed alternative investment fund as a property without legal personality has been introduced. Therefore, IF management will also be able to establish a closed IF as a set of assets, with the already existing possibility of setting up IF with legal personality, thus opening a door for equating tax treatment with open investment funds in subsequent changes to tax regulations, above all profit tax, which will certainly have a favourable impact on the further development of the alternative investment funds market. Furthermore, the licensing procedure carried out by HANFA has been simplified against the current situation. HANFA will decide in one procedure on the following. So one request is delivered, not more, and the HANFA decides with one solution. In addition, a circle of operations for which the delegation to third parties is required to obtain the approval of the HANFA with the aim of discharging supervisory entities is subject to amendments to the provisions on the obligation to authorise the delegation of all business of the companies to manage alternative investment funds managed by IFs whose shares are offered by public offerings, with changes narrowing the circle of operations for which the delegation to third parties is to be subject to the approval of the supervisory authority in order to specify the underlying transactions and functions. Therefore, the authorisation will have to be based only on the delegation of property management, asset valuation and control functions. In addition, the HANFA obligation to assess financial stability and suitability will apply only to qualified management company members. In particular, part of the provisions laying down the obligation of the supervisory authority to assess the financial stability and conformity of all members of the IF management company, as well as the setting of conditions for all members of the alternative investment fund management company, whereby the law prescribes that the future supervisory authority will assess the suitability and financial stability exclusively in relation to qualified members for the management of IFs and which makes a significant contribution to the alternative discharge. More detail is being prescribed and the award policies are being regulated. News prescribed by the final draft law in relation to the draft law. Article of the Law has been amended in accordance with the last amendment to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of October 2017 and the last amendment to Regulation No 346 of 2013 on the European Social Entrepreneurship Funds, which were adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in the meantime, i.e. in October 2017, as I said. In accordance with the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee, Manival of the Report on the fourth round of evaluation of the Republic of Croatia, which prevents participants of persons convicted of criminal offences from having a control share or management function in credit and financial institutions, and as regards the recommendation of the 23rd Law, has been developed in order to achieve compliance with the initiative in question. An obligation has been imposed on the Agency to obtain information from the Ministry of Justice or from the European Criminal Records System on the power of condemnation of the partners of the acquirers of qualifying interests in the manager of alternative investment funds and co-workers of the applicant for the authorisation to perform the functions of the management member and, according to the initiative of the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Essential and terminologyal modification of certain articles in order to comply with the new legal framework in the field of statutory audit, i.e. the adoption of the Audit Act. Furthermore, there were fewer nomotechnical amendments to the law. And now, as I said in the end, we have a draft law on the termination of the Law on the implementation of the EU regulation on European entrepreneurship funds with the final draft law and also a draft law on the termination of the law on the implementation of the EU regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds with the final draft of the law. Therefore, the provisions of the Law on the Implementation of these two Regulations have been incorporated into the law that we propose to adopt, so that the Alternative Investment Funds Act is laid down in order to regulate alternative investment funds matter in a single regulation, and it is therefore necessary to establish the termination of the law by the adoption of a special Law on the termination of those laws. I thank you for your attention, and here I expect a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71432	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Please only if you have information on how this will reflect on the existing Croatian financial market. We know that there are about 30 of these IFs on our market, that they have about 3 billion kunas of net assets somewhere. What does that mean for their business? We know that this part of the law is regulated, so so are those FGS. It seems to me now that these FGSs according to this are entering into this high school, you correct me if not or the kid are up to somewhere up to 75 million. Right? Up to 10 million euros net assets, and they over 10 million net assets are actually medium. And now I'm just, do you have any information about the current situation on the market whether or not this is going to mean something to them in some of their business regulation, since this part is making it easier for a part of it. That's the directive. So it's not that something we want, we don't want. So I'm just wondering if you have any information on what's going to happen and how this is going to reflect on the financial market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71434	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Lists Representatives Club, the first reported to counterpart Miro Bulj. Yeah, he's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, respected representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. As we have also said in this first reading, the adoption of this law on alternative investment funds is primarily in line with EU directives, and this unification of the debate concerns these other two laws that are now actually being incorporated into this law. And I think since these are all three directives, I think it's a good thing that we've covered this debate in this way. What the proposer said here, and in fact, in the first question itself, we asked certain questions that the classifications of companies for the management of alternative investment funds are according to the scale criterion. The classification now refers to three classes, meaning small, medium and large, which will be determined on the basis of the size of the net assets under management, so far it has been only small and large. And this second category is about investors, so who can invest in these funds. Well besides being professional, means those who have certain licences to say so, or must pass certain professional exams, such as for investment advisors or this one, even more known as... This, which you must have certain knowledge and the certificate laid down to be able to trade, i.e. invest in such funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was divided into small investors, and now even here, qualified investors are included, and these are investors who are actually qualified based on their minimum net assets, i.e. the payment obligations in the so-called so-called. ... They are also listed here and it seems to me that in relation to first reading and the provisions on remuneration policy have been extended for further alignment with the guidelines, taking into account the fact that policies and receipts, at EU level and in the world, are recognised as an important issue of business of entities in the capital market, as potentials of large, significant sources of conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is always a moral question, and why these directives have also arisen, even if I do not say, more stringently restrict the business of such funds because it is a bonus policy. We actually had a Swiss franc and all that was happening in the Republic of Croatia was actually bonus policy. So, since the defined bonuses for certain contributions, the achievement of certain earnings, certain managers had to satisfy a certain part of the rankings on the financial market and the overall policy. So nothing is happening in Croatia, which has not happened in the UK, the United States and other countries. And since now, here, as far as I've seen and sharpened those provisions, there is a definition of a particular conflict of interest, that it's actually better managed by risk. If we know that alternative investment funds, because we know that investment funds are one of the instruments where you can make a certain contribution on the financial market. There is, normally, both participatory and binding, one where you actually invest as a small exhibitor and you know very transparently what is being invested in. When we talk about alternative financial, i.e. funds, they are expected to have slightly higher yields. So, for them, they're expected to make something bigger, like I don't know, share, binding or some kind of mixed, and they're, like, they invest in a specific kind of property itself. Well, they're so present, for example. real estate, these alternative investment funds, where you'll be cornered. invest in real estate and work, expect certain returns from these properties. As I said, it means, according to HANFA, at the end of 2016. There were around 30 alternative investment funds active in the Croatian financial market, with net assets of about 3.3 billion kuna, of which it is to see how it is segmented,... billions of kuna refers to the capital fund, we know that it is managed by the Croatian investment, pension investment company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about a billion kuna refers to these 5 EFGS funds for economic co-operation and these are actually two groups of these funds, meaning that one, closed capital fund and these EFGS means 70% of the total assets of alternative investment funds on the market. Ugl. There are still investors opening such funds, there are certain banks, I think a few brokerage houses, and in fact this is a very shallow market for alternative investment funds for Croatia and simply in such a form will not be expected in the future, I say, apart from real estate, because in Croatia, the only option other than shares, we see today, with the Agrokor case, will hardly be more in the future, a small investor, i.e. those who were professionally investing more in corporate securities, because we ourselves know that on the market such companies, unfortunately, except for which more HEP countries etc. There isn't. Or, with this case, for a longer period of time, unfortunately, this one, you no longer have such alternative shares. On the other hand, we have bonds, we know that angle. The bonds held are prevailing, so the Republic of Croatia, whose contributions are less and less for such investors. The only thing I can do through alternative, but again I say alternative, through maybe individual, self-defined investments or I don't know, for energy, investments in certain funds that would invest in certain energy projects, or angles. What is popular in Croatia are actually these real estate funds. And they might actually be making far greater offerings than they were offerings of stock or liability. And here, in fact, was our suspicion, that is, the question that we discussed in the first reading, but I say, since this directive is, and that we do not have too many options, but that, in fact, at EU level and agreed and on the single European market, these are lighter requirements, according to these small societies for alternative investment funds, which we have heard here, that they have some net assets of up to 10 million euros. That if he, that he has much lighter demands, so that he no longer has to have a supervisory board, what we are really and in the first reading, was a little surprised, that he can only have one member of the administration, that it is not necessary to set up control functions, and we see that today, what we are saying and in these particular percentages, today, on the Committee on Economy, certain control functions, we are constantly questioning whether we have enough of these control functions. And here, much laxative, i.e., we lift these control functions, for these small IFs can invest up to 10 million euros. And the liquidity management system, it doesn't have to comply with the regulations of the required reception policy, means in this scheme actually bonuses. It does not have to meet the conditions of reporting on investment in an unlisted company, it does not need the agreement of the HANFA, etc. Many of these mechanisms, I say, are listed in the directive itself, the directive itself is listed and we implement it. However, certain issues are certainly raised, certain doubts, or if some Croatian citizens again invest in such funds tomorrow, and here is the only source that they will not invest, that they cannot invest small. It means that not those who are not professional, but that they can invest again those who are professional and, on the other hand, qualified, again if there is a failure of such a project believe me, no matter how professional they are, there were a lot of professionals who invested, who were in such funds, and they actually lost money and they were educated for it. There were many of them who said there would be no crisis, etc. In 2008, and they said that, from the professional circles in 2007, there was not so much a crisis in the financial markets, so they thought that they would be able to cover it through these systemic risks. I am saying, although the reason for the proposing is that these risks that will be released, which are now being released for these small IFs, will not be possible for such small IFs to trade cross-border, or that they will not be able to perform these auxiliary services, or that they will be able to invest exclusively professional or qualified investors, in which case we continue to doubt the first such event if it happens on the market again, and the question of what is, where was the regulator, where was the legislator, etc. However, so defined are the European Union directives so that all those who invest I say as much as it invests as professional investors that as it has been stated here, small and medium-sized IFs in their business and in their materials it says clearly and unequivocally that it is not obliged to apply all the provisions of this law and regulations adopted under this law and to point to risks. It is always a question of whether these risks are manifested in any way and where it is stated that if they happen to be informed by those who invest in such funds that there is a much greater risk, because look at them and invest because these funds today offer yields somewhere when we have somehow a hand-to-hand savings for anyone who gives you up to 1% today, the stock funds don't know better you will, the government bonds give 3 to 4% of the yields, they don't share because even these funds are seen in a minus due to the correction of the value probably Agrokor shares. Probably like these alternative funds, so-called. ...the funds offered tomorrow on the market will certainly yield 7 to 10% and will be attractive to a particular group of citizens. Just as we will soon see the reading of the electronic money law, investment in the essence of coin means a balloon that will blow out and, unfortunately, will again be the same as in 2007, 8 of the Croatian citizens invested in securities, and then lost a very large source of money. Also when it happens, and that's what the market is about to be, and I say we'll talk about it soon, and I'm afraid through these alternative funds that... funds that are on the market if they blow up and when such a problem happens, so that tomorrow they won't be called an institution or government, etc. where they were in the protection of such, in the protection of investors. I'm saying, even though there's talk of professional investors here later when such a hoax happens, no one asks if they're professional or not, but they're trying to figure out how to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71436	Thank you very much. We've got one replica of a respected MP named Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71437	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Lalovac, here you have really tried to bring us closer to the problems that all the investors face when investing in these alternative investment funds. In fact, I answered the line right at the end when you were talking about citizens, i.e. information at risk that they take when they invest in these funds. Well, we've just finished reading the Consumer Protection Act, where those citizens are also consumers who need to get all the information in writing before they invest. Do you think they're really going to get the right information so they can make a investment decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71438	The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71439	Thank you very much. So I'll tell you when I'm sure these funds are so-called. Hetach funds will offer attractive contributions and that is what has always happened throughout history and a certain part of the money that Croatian citizens kept on saving, they say so what I will hold there, I get 0.5 to 1% will try to invest in such funds. However, one part that is small investors is through this law seems to me that they are protected. As the promoter himself said only refers to those professional who have that part of the license. However, I say I question these professional ones. Because I'm saying, there were a lot of experts who knew it very well, so it turns out, unfortunately, they weren't very good at making certain assessments. And as far as citizens are concerned, I think it's through this previous law not to be that small print letters, because look, it's always the sign of perception, when it gives you 10%, and in small print letters, it becomes a risk then unfortunately Croatian citizens are thus deceived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71440	The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, three laws. The central one that speaks of... funds or alternative investment funds and these two small ones that actually regulate the regulatory space to say so in Croatia, given this new law, which includes what was defined among other things and with these two laws that are being put out of force. From the position, which is actually from such a position I can also speak to a citizen who is facing it, it seems to me that three innovations or three moments are significant and one question that has already been discussed here in some ways. So one moment is this new division into a small, medium and large society that allows perhaps a clearer and more transparent situation. Of course, it was not at first that I said it was about harmonisation, so in some ways none of this was made up by us in particular, but it was about harmonisation with new EU regulations and directives. Then the new distribution of investors into these alternative investment funds. And finally the third moment of regulation or perhaps more detailed or more precise regulation of bonuses that were not only in Croatia, but also globally, so if we remember and the great Wall Street crash were one of the absolute elements that led to the global financial global crisis. So obviously stricter rules here are something that is advisable and that we will certainly support. Now, this question that eventually led to a certain debate. Reduced or loose to say control mechanisms in small alternative investment funds. We believe that this is on the sitting side, of course, regardless of what is defined as purely professional, that is where professional investors will be able to appear. In fact, I would say one or two different ways of looking at the market in general, and in this particular case on this type of financial market, which is to what extent the state can take responsibility. So to what extent you can expect the state to protect people from perhaps your own reckless moves. What is really important is that in this segment consumer protection, i.e. protection of investors and people who engage in this type of work, it is very clear and very visible and precisely defined risk. Because as my colleague Lalovac said when someone sees a situation where the interest in the bank is 0.2%, when he sees 7 and a half percent, 10% no longer reads the small print, or what's in the fine print, let alone now that he thinks about what might be. One part of my view of the debate that we have in Croatian society today is actually the result, as a result of people not reading what was said here. And that is why it is certainly important in these situations to make it absolutely clear, transparent and large in letters to say, that is, at the same level where the profit, or percentage of earnings, is, to indicate the limitations. But beyond that, I don't see that we can go. Because beyond that would actually mean that you would risk it? It's a risk everywhere in the world, and it's caused huge accidents. So the information is clear, big and loud. But beyond that, the involvement of a state where I don't think it's a place, which is that it takes the risk of individual decisions that are naturally based on full information, for individuals I don't think that country is simply a place. It must give full information, it must be absolutely equal with the advantages of informing both the risks and the dangers and stop there. So, we will support this law, and these other two laws are actually something that, in my opinion, is good to accept the suggestion and the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, that one law does not derivate some other two, but, in fact, by a special decision put out of force those other two laws that are subsumed in this new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71442	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71443	Dear Vice President, I would like to thank you, Secretary of State, with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Well, nothing has changed dramatically since that first reading. Mostly these changes we have are both in the direction and I think they're important and they're good, and that's the direction of more review, control. Therefore, the aim is to increase transparency in managing alternative investment funds and investor safety. In addition to this higher level of investor protection, this law created a framework where funds are placed in a position not only to rely on other credit ratings but also to make little effort to assess those ratings, and then, of course, if they were to assess the subject of their investments, they would probably be safer and better for investors. I think this law and everything that regulates this law today is important and good for three reasons. First she heard we are today in Croatia chronically missing the fund-raiser industry. So, we have a distinct though we're from so-called. The transition part of the EU and, compared to other post-transition states or post-communist, we remain highly undeveloped in terms of funds and the fund industry. Secondly, Croatian companies primarily lack chronic core capital. And I think it's time to open up ownership structures, stop relying solely on relatively expensive funding compared to competition especially from Western Europe, and with this most often comes a kind of higher level of professional governance. Some of what I said was applied to Agrokor or part of Agrokor's companies then we wouldn't have the result we have today. And thirdly, investment funds bring not only money but they bring both more professional and quality management, and we miss it both in the public and private sectors. I'll just briefly repeat what I think is important, and the rest is the same as in the first reading in the bill. Therefore, the three-class classification instead of before up to two, so small, medium and large for management, of alternative investment funds management companies. The goal is to respect the specific needs of the fund market in the Republic of Croatia as I said rather undeveloped. I think the total number is about 30, exactly 30. Given the size, therefore, my colleague Lalovac said well that is indeed one shallow market, perhaps one of the most shallow when you look at the general financial industry in the Republic of Croatia. Except for size we have according to the investor category. They've been professional so far, so-called. professional and small investors. This law introduces a qualified investor. In two groups, investors in basic alternative investment funds and investors in IF risk capital. These two groups have different minimum role values and net assets. Furthermore, it should be mentioned and I think that this is particularly important given this level of development in our country, which is that small and medium-sized funds must clearly and unequivocally indicate in their business and materials that they are not obliged to comply with all the provisions of this law and to point to risks. So far, we have had a crisis in Croatia because we are simply not educated enough for individuals in this case of the fund industry, and on the other hand, because many players have not simply voiced their potential risks loudly and clearly. As I said, however, the law contributes to increasing risk insurance primarily to protect small investors. Part of it is dedicated we have heard from all categories of employees above all those who manage, so those responsible for investment and the result that is the activity of alternative investment funds. And in conclusion, I will say this law further regulates the security and stability of business with the aim of developing the entire industry, strengthening investor protection, which should also result in greater confidence in the capital market, we are indeed chronically lacking, but also the overall market economy that I believe we are all fighting for. Thank you. The HDZ Club will support this proposal, this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71444	Thank you very much. Now he will conclude something State Secretary Zeljko Tufekčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71445	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a little bit. Thank you for the debate. So, Mr. Lalovec's question. Of the 30 IFs under this new law and the new categorisation of them, 3 will enter the category of medium, 4 FGS also in the category of medium. We have a big one, that's this capital fund you said yourself. He'll be great. Everyone else stays in the category of small funds. So what effect do we expect? We expect, of course, the relaxation of business and the reduction of administrative burdens for existing funds. But more importantly, we expect the same thing to encourage the entry of new ones into the market, especially small and medium-sized ones, and that is essentially the intensity. We also heard from your discussions that what we know and what is, that the market is quite shallow, quite underdeveloped, and we expect that such relaxation, which is also prescribed by the directives, will encourage the market to invest, or raise capital, and then invest them in what the funds invest in. Therefore, investment in small IFs and the risk associated was the subject of the debate and in the first reading, and today most speakers touched it. So, first of all, this matter is regulated by the directive. In addition, we have the fact that only professional and qualified investors can invest in small and medium-sized alternative investment funds. In addition, we have a mandatory notice that such funds are involved and that they are not subject to all provisions of the Alternative Investment Funds Act. So investors who invest in such funds are professional investors who know what they are and know what risks they are taking. What we may also be able to say is that law, no law, so neither one can replace good supervision in any segment, nor in this area. So we mean quality supervision of all market participants, especially those of these funds. What should also be pointed out is that we in the investor market have an interest, our interest in risk protection and risk reduction and potential loss of investors. On the other hand, we have the interest of investors to earn money, make a contribution and make some profits. So investors who invest in such funds exactly expect to diversify their portfolio, and then achieve greater contributions compared to some other investment and, of course, always keeping in mind that it is professional investors and qualified investors who know what they are investing in and what risks they are taking and, of course, that the profit always goes with the risk if we eliminate the risk maximum or total, then we will very likely significantly, significantly reduce if we do not eliminate and earn. IFs are intended for professional and qualified investors by their nature. So we have another kind of fund, the so-called. ... funds, so open funds with a public offering that are much more prescribed than... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the funds and which are essentially intended among other small investors unqualified, investors to invest in such funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So IFs all and especially closed, especially in this case if we are talking small and medium-sized are just meant for professional investors while IFs with a public offering in which small investors can invest are very similar in nature and regulation. the funds have open funds with a public offering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here, what we are aware of are possible risks but on the one hand we are transposing the directive on the other hand is qualified and professional investors so that what we are ultimately expecting is an deepening and greater living in the alternative investment funds market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71446	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71447	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm going to ask you one question and put myself in the position of an average Croatian citizen, at times when in Croatia the interest rate on savings is practically zero, 0.20, 0.35, 0.15 or 0.010, it doesn't matter, we're talking this way by heart, so there's practically no, logical thing that the financial sector will try to attract citizens and their money because the savings of Croatian citizens is not negligible. And now the normal thing that people ask very often is whether we and these laws and some other laws have provided enough information first of all about the risk of citizens investing their money in something else, that they are offered a far greater contribution because you now have some games and some new life insurances, and I don't know where they offer far greater contributions than the interest on savings. So, the question that is definitely referred to in this law is usually imposed on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that we have past traumas where certain interest rates, unfortunately, have attracted some citizens to certain transactions or as regards credit or savings where, ultimately, hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens have caused trauma.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71448	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, as you have said, this law will apply and which are also segmented there as medium alternative investment funds and certain FGNSs. We have recently witnessed that right now, I won't name it, but in public it is known that certain FGNS as professional investors have invested money in Agrokor. And we see behind that certain repercussion and withdrawal of the licence, etc., etc., whether there will be any proceedings, but the question is raised, and then always called after the government, the state, where we could protect it by law, limit it, etc., and right now these laws even more, I say it's such a directive, and now we're making it even easier for the same FGNS control functions, and a month ago we had a situation in the state that one FGNS invested in shares in Agrokora which was a professional investor, lost money, and who knows what repercusion would be. These laws further facilitate these same professional investors that they can manage... I'm saying, it's not going to happen, it's directives, but then it's always going to be called which government is why the laws are so passed, here in Parliament, etc., where they were supervisory, where HANFA was, where we were here as parliamentarians to prevent it, so in this context we know what the directive is, that we have to respect it, however, and some practice has shown that once and for some other specific market we're doing business, so here today someone has to answer, ask, and in fact, it's probably all been clean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71450	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on these three points, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71451	Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law implementing the Regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 283. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law implementing the EU regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds, please vote. I find that most of the votes of 124 votes in favour, 4 abstentions and 1 vote against, is passed by the Law on the termination of the Law on the Implementation of the EU Regulation on European social entrepreneurship funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71496	Now I would suggest that we unite the discussion of the following two points, so these are points 5 and 6, I think, - the proposal of the Law on Payments, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 289 - Proposal for a Law on Electronic Money, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 288 Do you agree to conduct a united discussion? Yeah, no one's against it, everybody's unanimous, thank you. The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić, please. I just have to let you know, there's been an error on the server, so as you can see, traffic lights aren't working, so time has to be measured the old-fashioned way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. So we have a draft bill on payment and e-money laws, we will unite the debates, but I will give first review of the Law on Payments and then the Law on Electronic Money. The draft law on payment services is the result of harmonisation with the Internal Market Payment Services Directive, the deadline for the... Directives has been transposed by eight Member States in January 2018 and we are in the transposition phase. At EU level, the need for modernisation of payment services in favour of consumers and legal persons has been recognised, with a view to keeping pace with changes in the dynamic market. It promotes the development of innovative, Internet and mobile payment services, which will certainly contribute to the economy, the development of the economy and growth. The new directive was therefore adopted because of significant technical innovations in the retail market, the rapid growth of the number of electronic and mobile payments, the emergence of new types of payment services on the market and the need to increase payment security. In recent years, safety risks associated with electronic payment have also increased. The reason for this is the increase in the technical complexity of electronic payments, continuously increasing the volume of electronic payments worldwide and the new type of payment services. Many innovative products or services have not been fully covered or have largely been excluded from the current legal framework, which in some cases has proved to be obsolete in view of market developments and has resulted in legal uncertainty, safety risks, as well as a lack of consumer protection in certain areas. The new rules encourage competition in the electronic payment market. This will allow consumers to benefit from a greater and better choice between different payment services and service providers. So far, entry into the payment market has been complicated for such service providers because many barriers have prevented their business, primarily the lack of adequate regulation. This Regulation addresses the basic obstacle to market entry for new service providers offering cheaper payment solutions to an increasing number of consumers and legal entities across the EU. These providers will have to follow the same rules as banks, hence registration, licensing and supervision of competent authorities, and new payment security requirements will be applicable to them. Most important news, two new payment services are being introduced. The first of them is an account information service, so it allows consumers and business entities to view their financial situation globally, e.g. allows consumers to consolidate different payment accounts they have in one or more banks and categorize consumption by species, e.g. credit, food, directing, entertainment, gasoline, etc. which helps them to monitor costs and financial planning. Another new service is the payment initiation service, so this service facilitates and speeds up e-commerce or enables the establishment of a software link between the trader's website and the network bank platform of payment service providers that keeps the account. This means that consumers will be able to make an online purchase even if they do not have a credit card, and the trader will be able to start delivering the goods as soon as the service providers and payment initiations have confirmed that payment is initiated. So everything happens in real time. It is important to note that at no stage of the payment chain, the provider of these services, therefore the payment initiation service, will not be in possession of money from payment service users. Another innovation introduced by the law is the introduction of the possibility of establishing a small payment institution. Therefore, for the purpose of disbursement, a small payment institution is introduced which will be able to provide payment services, so all payment services other than payment-payment of cash on account, payment initiation services and account information services exclusively in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Smaller initial capital requirements have been laid down and total transactions in one year may not exceed 7.5 million kuna. Furthermore, increased payment security, introduced and introduced stricter security requirements on secure communication and reliable customer authentication for the initiation and processing of electronic payments that will have to be applied and that will have to be applied by all payment service providers. The stricter rules will help reduce the risk of fraud, especially with the payment line and protect the confidentiality of the user's data. Compensation for the use of a specific payment instrument shall be abolished. Namely, the payer shall not be allowed to charge any fee to the payer for the use of a specific payment instrument. So when buying a ticket to a concert, for example. via the internet, the trader will not be allowed to charge additional fees for payment with a card. Additional supervision of services excluded from the application of the law, as well as in the applicable Law on payment transactions based on a specific payment instrument within a limited network, e.g. a gift by card within the chain of goods houses are outside the scope of the law and directive, however, this law provides that when their activity reaches a value of 7.5 million kuna on an annual basis it informs the CNB to assess whether the exclusion from the application of laws and licensing remains appropriate and the aim is to minimise the financial effects for consumers. New rules shall be introduced for telecom operators, i.e. payment transactions carried out by the electronic communications network provider or services provided in addition to electronic communications services for the users and services and for the purchase of digital content and voice services, or carried out with or through an electronic device for charity or for the purchase of cards which have so far been completely excluded from the application of the law. However, in order to avoid the risk of exposure to significant financial risks, the payer is excluded only payments below a certain threshold, i.e. 375 kuna per transaction or 2250 per month for payment. Telecom operators engaged in such activity must inform the competent authorities annually that they are in compliance with that restriction. Rules on the protection of payment service users have been improved, so the payer's responsibility for the payment instrument, such as the owner of a credit card for unauthorized payment transactions from 1125 to 1075 kuna has been reduced. A reduction in the risk in which a payment service user may cancel a framework contract from 12 to 6 months without compensation. The payment of the notice of loss, theft or abuse of the payment instrument is prohibited, i.e. the payment service provider may charge only the costs of the replacement. The payment service provider’s obligation is prescribed to reserve cash on the payer’s payment account as part of a payment transaction only if the payer has given consent to the exact amount of cash to be booked. It will no longer be possible to book funds without the consent of the payer and without the correct amount. The consumer’s complaint will have to be answered by the payment service provider within 10 days exceptionally within 35 days. And ultimately related to the Law on Payments. So, as I have initially said in recent years, significant progress has been made in the area of payment services. In June 2016, the Law implementing the Regulation in the field of payment services, which allowed the implementation of Regulation 751 of 2015, entered into force. The European Parliament and the Council on inter-bank fees for payment transactions on the basis of cards introducing new rules in the area of inter-bank charges with the aim of resolving high and different inter-bank fees in EU Member States, which, for example, were charged by the bank to traders, who ultimately transferred them to consumers, or excluded them, or included them in the general price of goods and services. In July 2017, the Law on Comparability of Comparability of Compensation for Transfers of Payment Accounts and Access to a Basic Account aimed at increasing the transparency and comparability of the charges paid by credit institutions to consumers. Elimination of difficulties in transferring payment accounts and increasing competition in the banking sector to the population. Finally, as a final step today, you have before you the Payment Law which brings numerous improvements in the area of payment services, in particular with regard to greater security for all electronic payments and for all payment service providers, expansion of the scope, increased protection of payment service users and increased competition. And so here we expect support from this law. The law is in first reading. We expect a constructive discussion about him, of course. And all the suggestions for his improvement are welcome. The e-money bill. It is therefore a proposal for a law which, as we see it, goes in a package with the Proposal for a Law on Payments, because those legislative proposals are transposed into national legislation by Directive 2366 of the 2015 on payment services on the internal market, mostly in the new Law on Payments, and in the smaller part, into the new Law on Electronic Money. In particular, the Internal Market Payments Directive amended Directive 110 of 2009 on the establishment, operation and prudential supervision of electronic money institutions which has been transposed into the applicable Electronic Money Act. Electronic money is a stored monetary value that has been issued after receiving cash for the purpose of carrying out payment transactions and is accepted by a legal or natural person who is not an issuer of that electronic money, which makes a monetary claim to the issuer. So that's the legal definition of electronic money. In the practice of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, electronic money is not very widespread and is a small share in total payments. For example, RH electronic money in practice was previously paid, so the prepaid payment card issued by banks and card houses. For example, a gift from a bank card. The consumer can come into a bank where there is no account and buy a gift card from the bank in such a way as to pay for 100 kuna or a certain amount and that amount is stored on a payment card with which the customer, or the customer, can make payments in various places. Other types of payment of goods and servants via mobile phones when the phone holder pays his service to a mobile phone operator by means of a pre-purchased bonus e.g. a SMS message that settles the cost of physical goods and services such as bike rental, purchase of non-alcoholic beverages on automatics, etc. While the purchase of digital goods and services such as video download, music and games or parking payments will be electronic money under certain conditions. Currently in the Republic of Croatia, the headquarters has five electronic money institutions. These are two card houses and three mobile operators who received an authorisation to issue electronic money from the Croatian National Bank in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law. The most important news in relation to the current law has been tightened the requirements for licensing. The electronic money institutions which operate on the basis of an authorisation for the issue of electronic money issued under the applicable law shall, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of this law, carry out the compliance of their business with the provisions of this law, in particular with the additional requirements relating to payment security. In this respect, the electronic money institution will have to provide a description of the procedures established for payment, settlement and handling following security incidents or complaints of the security, security policy, risk management measures and others. Security measures set up by all electronic money institutions and thus small electronic money institutions will contribute to a higher level of protection of electronic money holders in the event of fraud and other abuses. The Croatian National Bank will have greater supervisory powers related to the cross-border issue of electronic money by this law given greater powers to the competent authority of the host Member State, so that it is possible for the competent authority of the Republic of Croatia as host Member States to request the submission of the report from electronic money institutions from another Member State operating in the Republic of Croatia through a branch or distributor. In addition, in exceptional situations requiring urgent action, it is possible for the competent authority in the Republic of Croatia as host Member States to take or may take preventive measures if necessary to protect electronic money holders or payment service users in the Republic of Croatia. Further details are given to small electronic money institutions. Therefore, electronic money institutions under the exception have been renamed small electronic money institutions. However, the same electronic money institutions whose business remains limited to the Republic of Croatia remain limited to the Republic of Croatia only partially modified requirements for their establishment and operation. Therefore, the following innovations have been introduced with small institutions may provide payment services which are not related to the issue of electronic money, and may carry out other activities under the applicable law, may issue electronic money and provide payment services related to the issue of electronic money, but may not carry out other activities, initial capital shall be at least HRK 900000 under the applicable law, the limit of the amount stored, according to the applicable law shall be max 1125 kuna, the average unused electronic money of a small institution shall not exceed 2 million kuna, the applicable law shall not exceed a maximum of 3.7 million kuna and the average monthly total value of payment transactions carried out in the last 12 months shall not exceed 7.5 million kuna. The increased protection of electronic money users, therefore, will benefit from electronic money and payment services provided by electronic money institutions in accordance with new European standards and higher security conditions, as well as from the proposal of the Law on Payments, has been introduced that the consumer’s complaint is obliged to respond within 10 days, exceptionally within 35 days. The applicable law further prescribes the exclusion of the application from the monetary value for the purchase of digital content and voice services via Telecom operator, so-called. services with a special tariff to be provided through public communications networks and services using specific numbers and specific codes. The news is that the monetary value to be used for the execution of payment transactions for such services and for electronic cards, for example, the parking-carriage and donations will not be considered electronic money, but provided that the prescribed thresholds for the use of those exclusions amounting to 375 kuna per transaction, i.e. 2250 kuna per month per user, are not exceeded. In the event of non-compliance with that condition, such a cash transaction would constitute electronic money. I propose that the law enter into force on the eighth day since its publication in the National Journal, and the institutions issuing electronic money are required to re-license within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71498	Thank you very much. First of all, we welcome together students and students of the Construction, Natural and Mining Schools of Varazdin who are here today at the gallery And we're moving on with the clubs. [[...Applause...]] Excuse me, first committee rapporteurs, will they take your word for it? Traditionally, no. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Independent Lists Bridge. He's gone. No one else will. Okay. The other is Mr. Boris Lalovec. I saw him. He's got him. Here you go. In front of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with an associate. Today, we have a package of one financial law, primarily relating to directives or to directives to fully access these financial services and Croatia to the single financial market. I think it is good that these two points have been united since both these laws and the Law on Payments and the Law on Electronic Money are based on the Directive on payment services that have been amended. The new directive was also adopted because of significant technical innovations in the retail market. So, technologies go much faster than the legislator can pass some laws, so it's a good thing we caught a step, it seems to me that this E 2018 applies in all countries, so as far as such services appear on the Croatian market, we're actually ready for that. When it comes to payment traffic, we said that due to technical innovations in the retail market, there have been significant changes, rapid growth in the number of electronic and mobile payments, the emergence of new types of payment services on the market, and the need to increase payment security. Two new payment services are being introduced. The account information service allows consumers and business entities to view their financial situation globally, which I think is certainly good because it allows consumers to consolidate different payment accounts that they have in one or more banks, and categorize consumption by species, means whether you pay for loans, whether you pay for food, directors, gasoline or other costs and enables them to monitor costs and financial planning. We heard yesterday and the minister of financial literacy in Croatia that at very low levels and these crises, or some trauma from the past, especially as regards certain financial products, which is actually said by his colleague Schuker, are happening on one side and these changes are coming very quickly. On the other hand, those who create certain products on the market, and here we talked about so-called. The hedge funds that offer much higher yields than the handouts on deposits, and from this we will have an interesting index comparison law, and then you will see how interest rates are formed on the market, how the interest rate is formed when the credit is approved, which are the benchmarks, then we will come to how that national reference interest rate is formed and what it means, and ultimately is examined through this financial description and certain technical conditions. These are purely technical documents that allow the provision of services, but on the other hand I think it is good that, I also hope that soon a certain legislative initiative on financial description will come not only as regards technical level or probably a number of younger citizens in the Republic of Croatia know how to execute these payment services. However, financial descriptors always happen to us that when it happens and some balloons blow up, and we talked here there was a balloon real estate market in Croatia that blew up and... Not to mention many problems of many Croatian families, so much has been invested in securities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We remember very well in 2006, '07, '08. There's no one who didn't invest in shares, there's no one who didn't, you remember very well when they were buying shares of HT, so later on, when it blew up, only someone had to add those minuses up. And we see very quickly that the market is traded with bitcoin. I think even though this electronic money law I have noticed here from the very definition of the Law on Electronic Money, they say that electronic money is electronic, including the magnetically stored monetary value issued after receiving money for the purpose of carrying out payment transactions within the meaning of a law that does not regulate payment turnover, which is accepted by a natural and legal person who is not the issuer of that electronic money which appears to be a monetary claim to the issuer. This doesn't belong to bitcoin. So this is a whole new one, so on the market, in the financial market, one service that when you look at it like this isn't regulated, and it sounds tempting to me like the Electronic Money Act, and now that you're looking at it, you think we're dealing with this bitcoin law and you don't. Because bitcoin, behind him, there's no financial claim that you're creating, that you're giving a certain monetary counterproduction, or that you're giving money here. Here it is said that in the Republic of Croatia only 5 institutions such, these are two card houses and three mobile operators which, for the time being, carry out certain payments with electronic money. However, a much stronger balloon, a much larger balloon in which unfortunately many Croatian citizens are, exactly what we were saying, perhaps because of the smaller yields and the hand-to-hand savings, the smaller yields on the stocks, the smaller yields and the bonds we see that are now at least 3.4% lower yields and those who have invested in some form of real estate are also invested in this form of virtual currency that we see jumping from how many dollars to not know how many thousands of dollars in a certain part. And then when that balloon is blown, and unfortunately all those balloons, that is, all those currencies that are created in such a way as some kind of parallel, parallel one monetary system that creates and executes these payments as much as I do, I don't own bitcoin but those who have it seems to me that you can pay certain services with that, that you can even allegedly raise money on a bitcoin ATM. So technology goes much faster than the legislator can actually grasp what all those who are on that technical innovation market are offering. But what happens later, when they blow out that balloon, then reality becomes much more cruel and then it is seen that all these fast earnings that have come from such opportunities that they are always looking for a certain culprit where there was a state, where there was a ministry, where there was a regulator, then again some other ministers will sit there and then they will re-emerge and where you were when you were supposed to protect the bitcoin, when there was a ministry, where there was a hedge fund, etc., etc. So we know clearly when we talk about all that we can't really, how much the market on one side offers to Croatian citizens, but it is certainly important and therefore I support Minister Marić when he talked about financial descriptor yesterday, I think it's one of the key documents to bring to this High House and be curricula reform and to educate young people how important it is to know about personal finances, how important it is to know the basic elements, because when you take and credit in the bank, when you take a certain service to close your material and financial problems, then see how many problems there are, what kind of benefits, how the interest rate is, what Euribor is, how is manipulated by Euribor, we will say that on the next point when the European Commission has taken the directives to agree on how certain values are, what kind of manipulations exist on the market where a number of citizens are actually under these manipulations and when they're actually being harsh. I think that the financial description of young people and the financial descriptiveness of citizens in my opinion on one of the first points should be curricula reforms. Because what has proved to us through these 15-years of investment and crisis that has been shown for Croatian citizens and those who have been blocked, which unfortunately are part of it because they have not been able to fulfil their obligations, by the very fact that they have lost their jobs and have been beaten by recession, but among them is one part of the citizens who have invested, who thought that certain projects will be able to complete them, have failed to complete them, and in the end they have found themselves in a problem, and then 10 to 15 years have been blocked, the execution is over them, 300 thousand citizens are under them, and then again trying to solve some legal solutions and it goes quite hard. So, technically, these two laws that are complementary in that part to comply with the directives, that technical solutions are and that we don't see any reason why we don't support them, so the SDP club will support these two, these two laws for compliance with the directives. We certainly appeal to this and we see, and I also say on the part of the government that it is seriously discussed that the documents on descriptiveness are being made in this law, very systematically both through schools and through numerous workshops, and that it is not only here that you can hear an interest rate forming, which means the way you pay off credit by annuity, by war, which means when you take 100 thousand euros credit, I don't know by annuities and what it means when you take 100,000 euros, for example. in payment quotas. That means I don't know up to 20, 30 thousand euros more one model in the other, how much more you'll only pay interest, and when you take around 100,000 euros that you'll return up to 180, 190 thousand euros in the end, that when you take one apartment that you'll return two apartments to the bank. These are long-term decisions in that I think that through this High House that we should make laws where we are going to introduce it to citizens and it is transparent to talk about it, but in order to be systematic it must be part of the educational programme and it must be not only that we speak in this House which unfortunately today there are only a dozen of us, and to talk about such very important things for Croatian citizens, and unfortunately we talk... post always, and that such events are then numerous in order to solve it. But when such laws are passed, unfortunately here and today we are very few and we talk very little about it, and unfortunately we always talk about what we should have done, but today we are very few. I thank you and the SDP club will support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71500	Thank you, too. Now in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mrs Roscic and then Mrs Peric in the second part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71501	Thank you, Vice President. Respected to the proposer's representative, respected colleagues and colleagues. I will in this first part look back at one of these laws that we have united in the debate, which is the Law on payment traffic. He came on the agenda and one of the guidelines that other countries in the EU accept, is often found in the media under PSD-2. So what's important is to regulate new types of payment services, payment initiation services and account information services. It may sound a little strange to us what it is to start payments, but I'll try to explain later why in everyday life, especially if we buy online facilitates these activities. Thus, in particular, these payment initiation services in the e-commerce and parallel to the introduction of new payment services on the market have been developed by new payment service providers and thus payment initiation service providers and account information service providers. So the payment initiation service is linked to e-commerce, which means that the consumer can make an online purchase even if he doesn't own a credit card thanks to this new service. And the trader can start delivering the goods as soon as the payment service providers have confirmed that the payment has been made. The account information service allows consumers and business entities to have a better view of this financial situation, for example, consumers have a common view of accounts that have one or more banks and are categorized by species, credit is particularly separate, directing, food, entertainment and the like. Those services shall not be owned by payment service users at any stage of the payment chain. Now that we have united this debate so as not to repeat everything the promoter has said, I would stress that, because of these laws, major changes are expected in the financial market and the entry of the start of hopes and companies such as Apple, Google, Paypal, Facebook and so on, but I would also stress that safety in Croatia is above average and we plan to maintain control of all new activities. The forecasts are those which are likely to be true that banks will lose a significant part of payment traffic in the coming years, but this does not mean that they will lose revenue because revenue will grow due to the rise in volume of such transactions, and what is most important to us is that citizens have a faster, better and safer service. It is also believed that this law allows the largest wave of changes that have been on the Croatian financial market in this area since the termination of the Payments Office, but I must also say that in essence all these changes are already taking place and large changes are generally made by market participants in preferences for the use of payment services and all this has already happened. Now that we're talking to our parents at all, here I am, personally, perhaps through e-commerce, the most kind of airline I buy, I don't have the right time or time to buy anything else, but our parents, unlike their parents, are already using e-commerce services, and every week when I see my father, he necessarily finds something very favourable on the Internet from equipment and everything, and we just can't act like it's not there. It's been a while since older people or parents may have watched only a TV store and there they may have bought some mattress or pot and we are now at a time when we are serious shopping, and sometimes we only do some shopping via the Internet and the Internet is the first and last place we search for a service or product. So regardless of what this law will allow banks to access information to third parties, there are clear restrictions that no more information is provided than is necessary to provide safer and faster services for the end-user. In addition, more detail is prescribed activities that are not considered payment services, e.g. collective purchase services meeting certain conditions or different trading cards which can only be used in limited circumstances. It also allows consumers to receive free notice and framework contract on paper at any time in a contractual relationship and therefore to be able to verify contract rights and obligations in the event of a dispute. This law will support the HDZ Club in all of this and we hope that these trends ahead of us will be more secure, and certainly if any new threats and needs arise to make these services faster and better, I believe that we will respond in due time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71502	Thank you. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71503	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant. Here's what the introduction said, these two laws are really very close. In fact, the Law on Electronic Money itself was adopted in another form was the Law on Electronic Money Institutions which was then abolished, it ceased to apply in 2010, in order for this applicable law to be in force as of 1 January 2011. Since the Internal Market Payments Directive amended the Directive on the establishment of activities and prudential supervision of electronic money institutions and it was also necessary to draw up this new Electronic Money Act, which was in fact brought into line with Directive 2015/2366 of the European Parliament and of the Council on payment services. What's electronic money? Here's what the proposer said before, it's a stored cash value that was issued after receiving money for the purpose of carrying out payment transactions. So it's something that we get as the equivalent of the money that's given, so it's not some card without a cover, it's really like a counterproduct and so a natural or legal person can also have the ability to carry out a transaction. What is the aim of the directive itself by introducing and issuing electronic money? Therefore, the aim is to introduce new payment services and extend the scope of the application itself, to increase security for all electronic payments and to improve consumer rights rules that arise in the role of electronic money holders. In the practice of our country and so on the EU, electronic money was not very widespread so that it was already mentioned in the example of our country itself, it is about 5 houses that actually worked and operated in this way, which are two card houses and three mobile operators. So, before payment cards, they're so-called. The prepaid payment card to which the consumer comes to the bank and buys a bon as a gift bank card and thus can buy and carry out further payment turnover and also in paying goods and services via mobile phones in a way to pay or buy a bon which then settles the costs either by renting a bicycle, buying non-alcoholic drinks or anything else. What is important to say is that with this new law certain conditions have been applied to the issue itself, so supervision of these and such legal persons has the CNB. It must certainly carry out control procedures and such legal persons cannot transfer their business to someone else, which is also very important. Then what is mentioned is that more detailed small electronic money institutions are, in fact, institutions whose business is limited to the Republic of Croatia and there are certain conditions under which these small institutions can do business with their initial capital being 260 000, and now 900 000 kuna. For them, the limit of the amount stored with the effect that these small institutions may not exceed the amount of 2 million kuna, so the average unused electronic money must also be recorded and the total value of payment transactions in the last 12 months, including transactions executed through its representatives, shall not exceed 7.5 million kuna. Therefore, as in the Law on Payments, it has been introduced that the complaint by the consumer electronic money issuer is obliged to respond to this complaint within 10 and 35 days, respectively. So, the HDZ club is going to support this bill anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71504	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Goddess's turn at least in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71505	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. So today we're discussing the Law on Payment Transport under which we've been operating since 2011 and at the time of adoption he was very good. He's good now. Not bad, but since 2011 when it was in line with EU Directive 2007/64, much has changed. And that is why, because of these changes that are present, it was necessary to approach the amendments to that law or to comply with the EU Directive. There has been a change in technical innovation, a low-value payment market, rapid growth in electronic and mobile payments, as well as the emergence of new types of payment services on the market. And it all caused the law to change. What was wanted to achieve by this law, i.e. the objectives of EU Directive 2015/2366, is a legal framework which defines the regulation of new payment services, the licensing of new payment service providers, the extension of the scope, greater security for all electronic salaries and all payment service providers, which is particularly important because the growing development of this particular market and all the situations that occur there is a certain mistrust in this way of business, and then there is an improvement of the rules on the protection of users, payment services and consumers, and today we are really talking about consumer protection, increased competition and the incentive to reduce the price of payment services. What I would particularly like to refer to are the new information services that were the same and the promoter introduced us to this and specifically referred to that part of both colleagues and colleagues who discussed in the previous discussions, which is exactly what they stated. And I would still say what is really important here and that the consumer has the right to receive free notice from the Framework Agreement in paper form. It's about paying by electronic means, it's about everything. But from all the debates that we have had here today, it is really this consumer who is at risk of that greater because it is not informed. A colleague, Lalovac, also praised Minister Maric, who pointed out the need for continued education in financial literacy, and indeed since the earliest age. Because only if we persist will we be able to absorb and absorb all the services this new market offers, all of these challenges are accepted and otherwise we accept the challenges but we do not accept the consequences and we often witness them through the discussions and the real situations of the people they face. What I would also point out as an important feature of the new payment service providers is that when the payment or account service provider is not in possession of money from the payment service user at any stage of the payment chain, the payment service provider is not in possession of the payment service user. And I have already noted the importance of security, so this directive also prescribes strict security requirements. In this communication, it is done that a very reliable customer authentication is needed, means initiating the processing of electronic payments and making sure that it is possible to know who is on the other hand and who is processing those transactions, or who is providing certain needs for its services, or what is to be done, which is what is to be paid. Although this law does not change significantly other than these few segments, we have seen that there are many things that will need to be changed and applied because some regulations are fully, or some articles are transmitted, in part, some are changing but only being done to improve. I would also immediately refer to the implementation of this Regulation to the Electronic Money Act. He doesn't take up a significant part of the market with us. In some EU countries, it is more and more but it is not all about the important share of this electronic money in this segment of business, but it is all good to regulate and as much security as possible for our consumers. This is exactly the implementation of Regulation 2366/2015. and contributes to greater consumer protection in this law. The HNS club will support both the law and other because we believe it is good and brings greater consumer protection and greater consumer information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71506	Thank you very much, Mrs. Macar. And now, in the end, Mr. Ivan Schuker will be performing as an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71507	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. First of all, I'd like to say something about our Rules of Procedure. And these two laws are a confirmation, and look at how much material it is that acts that, laws, regulations that are in order to comply with EU directives and guidelines simply do not need to go into two readings. First, in principle very rarely to change something more significant but I say, obviously when we want to talk about the operational and better operation of the Croatian Parliament, we forget about these things. But I would by no means exempt these legal proposals from this morning's very, such a temperamental debate, consumer protection strategies for the reason that these laws, apart from aligning with EU directives, are in principle following something that is at this point our environment, which is that anyone who sells something wants to get to the buyer as quickly as possible. And the logical thing to do is to pay for these goods or those services if it's not modernized, then it's late. and the EU has simply applied this in its directives, but I would like to trace what my colleague Lalovac said and what he said yesterday, which is that we still live in a country where many citizens are not financially written, because this law will and these provisions of this law will apply without a problem those in entrepreneurship, those interested in certain entrepreneurial activities, but it is a fundamental issue which, unfortunately, is very often blamed by some laws, we are all going to say and so on. The finance ministry has done its job perfectly, prepared the law, aligned with EU directives, made one broad debate, more or less all interested people are informed, but unfortunately both in times of crisis and in some situations, people reach out in some ways, think they can get something cheaper or something better, and they are not aware of the traps they are hiding. And then we have all these traumas that we have, so when we talk about this Payment Law, then we can't forget that we have so many nursing homes, that every month they get a bundle of ten bills and they pay them the way they pay them. Unfortunately, regardless of the heavy mobility, they have to go from utility to Elektra to here, to there, to pay directly on the counter so they don't charge them. Not to say that a bunch of these tickets don't have a bar code and that's the other part of our reality and the environment we live in when we talk about payment traffic that we simply can't ignore, we can't forget. Now the question is whether public service providers, I may be a little out of the loop, but I think that it is more life-threatening and important than some of the provisions that are here, whether public service providers are in line with what the Ministry of Finance and the Government have made possible by their laws, should modernise certain things to collect their services from citizens. It's a basic question that we need to ask here. And it's about the people that we move between every day and every day we see and for the reasons that today with all these electronic and non-options, the manipulation of cash money is terribly expensive. It's awfully expensive. You practically need to take them away from one place and put them like that, that's when you take them to some kind of electronic payment, amounts that just can't be compared. These are facts we must also not ignore. Look at how many banks and FINA pay each year, I think they're called cash centres, so centres that manipulate cash money and that cash money is filled with ATMs, etc. And now, I'd like to say, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues who were so generously speaking about bons, this, this, that, maybe, might have read the Electronic Money Act when we talked about consumer protection because the predecessor of this electronic money is nothing more than those points that we had. Sometimes someone bought so many and so many points, divided and gave, but now it's just a different financial institution, you give her some kind of amount and there you get some kind of card and you can pay up to that amount with that card, so it's not a classic card that is. And I don't owe you any more, what's far more important to me here, which is in the Law on Electronic Money, the role of the CNB is mentioned, and from the fear that they are constantly warning, finding, etc., I'm asked one question whether they really want what the Ministry of Finance wrote in the law, that they have to control. If the Ministry of Finance wrote and the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted and proposed to the Parliament and adopted us in the Assembly, then they can no longer say that they have found and warned but is asking whether they have prevented certain things. Because look at this story about Agrokor, so it's about the biggest corporation practically in Croatia, two regulatory agencies, independent, are not regulatory, but two institutions have definitely failed, it's also the CNB on one side and the HANFA on one side. And when it happens at such a high level with so many billions, then you can think of what you can do to an ordinary little man. And let's not just, so this isn't about the Ministry of Finance, all the honors of the proposed laws, but I just think that when we discuss some of the documents that come from the CNB, then we should remember that in certain laws we've adopted provisions that make them very obliged to control certain things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71508	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71509	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you've opened a very important topic for me and before I say, I agree with you, your laws are quite complex, it's hard to follow, I thought when I was a boy long ago when we went to the kirva, then we bought chips so we had pockets full of chips, I thought it was actually electronic money, too. It's a similar thing, whether it was a payPal card or something, you have some kind of amount to spend. The man wonders why the chips are, so because you can set the price of the chips, the coins are fixed, and you can determine this as you want and it's easy then, people spend more. But the question you've raised is very important, in my opinion, can the Ministry of Finance help people here? I don't know, that's the last time, I think the minister was, so I asked him. Today, a lot of banks are cutting off our business. In smaller community centers, they're no longer profitable, they don't have that traffic, even your post office doesn't work then, you don't have a kiosk, people really have problems paying for these directories that come to them every day. Can some law be made for some institutions, smaller financial institutions that will enable people to pay for these directors, that is now a question. But in any case, you need to see that people are being helped, these people in rural areas often and aren't too trained with that technology, they don't use it, the tokens don't have, use those as they already call electronic accounts, and if they can be helped, that's the key question, and if there's a will. Here's what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71510	Thank you. You picked up the bat, you can answer it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, my colleague, Sagar, I've deliberately mentioned some things out of context. Why? Because simply when we talk about something that is advanced, we must not forget where we live and what kind of environment we live in. It's also a logical thing that if you go to buy a card for that electronic money in some business bank and you pay something in it for it to in principle attract you to use its services. It's the same thing as an ad trick we can say, so it all has its own why. And I often say money is as good as any other and those who deal with money in all possible ways want to sell their service as someone who manufactures a shirt, coat, etc. That he wants to sell. And these are all new products, and it's good that the ministry reacted and changed the law because when you look at the Electronic Money Act, it hasn't been developed yet, it's not spread. But we have the law and someone can if some things come up. But I repeat, we must not forget the fact that what Minister Maric said yesterday that over 50% of the population in Croatia is financially illiterate without saying that electronically illiterate. Now, look, those post office offices in some small villages are gone, too, and now the question is, how are they going to make their payments? They're electronically illiterate, they get out there somewhere, so the third bill takes him off with a fee that his head hurts, it's just facts. In addition to this, everything that's modern that you can pay in one way or another and whatever you like and that you can trade in one way or another, but we need to think about those who, unfortunately, are not available to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71512	Thank you. Since the applicant will not exercise his right to his word, I conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It was two proposals for the P.Z.E. law. No. 289 and 288 so I don't read them again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71513	Proposal for a Law on Payments, first reading, P.Z. No. 289. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the first adoption of the proposal of the Law on Payments and the second all objections and proposals will be made to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 116 for, 9 abstentions and 1 against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71532	We are now moving to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, first reading, P.Z.E. number 287. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would a representative of the motion secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zeljko Tufekčić want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71533	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Perhaps at first I will abuse the Rules of Procedure a little bit, I didn't want the final word, but I would just like to thank everyone who discussed the previous two draft laws. So now we have the 2016 Law on the Implementation of Regulation 1011 on indices used as benchmarks. Therefore, the Regulation was adopted on 8 June 2016 and was published in the Official Journal of the EU at the end of June of that year and is directly applicable in all EU Member States as from 1 January 2018. This law implementing the Regulation creates assumptions for the direct application of the Regulation in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the regulation itself was adopted for the purpose of harmonising the regulatory framework for benchmarks, and the benchmarks were publicly published values used to determine the prices of financial instruments and contracts and to measure the performance of investment funds. Therefore, the regulatory framework for benchmarks at EU level, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to improve the conditions of its functioning and to ensure a high level of consumer and investor protection. In addition, as a directly applicable legal act, the Regulation guarantees uniform application of provisions across the EU. Therefore, the main objective of the adoption of the Regulation is no. 1011/2016. is to establish common EU standards to prevent the manipulation of benchmarks which could affect the price of financial instruments or financial contracts such as loans or mortgages. In particular, the determination of the price of many financial instruments and financial contracts depends on the accuracy and integrity of the reference value. Serious cases of manipulation by reference interest rates, e.g. LIBOR, EURIBOR and similar confirm that the inaccuracy and non-integration of indices used as benchmarks or doubts about their accuracy and integrity can distort market confidence, cause losses to consumers and investors and disrupt the real economy. It is therefore necessary to ensure the accuracy, robustness and integrity of the benchmarks and the process of determining them. For the time being, there are three benchmarks to which the regulation applies, these are Crobex whose administrator is the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and the data contributor will also be the Zagreb Stock Exchange, and the monitoring will be carried out by HANFA, ZIBOR, the second reference value of ZIBOR, the second reference value is ZIBOR, so Zagreb... The interest rate quoted in the interbank market, whose administrator is the Croatian Banks Association, are the contributor of credit institutions, and the supervision will be performed by the CNB and NNRS, respectively, the national reference rate of which is also the Croatian Banking Association, and the supervision will be carried out by the CNB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, this law provides that the authorities responsible for the exercise of supervision, in accordance with the provisions of the regulation to be implemented, are essentially to be determined, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, which is therefore to be implemented, 1011 of 2016, their division of competences, part-time work and powers. So it's about HANFA and HNB as I mentioned earlier. Infringements for the conduct of the anti-registration regulation and the amount of fines for certain infringements of legal and natural persons to which the Regulation applies shall be laid down. It is proposed that the law enter into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal. Therefore, this law carries out continuous harmonisation with the legal acquis of the EU, in such a way that the adoption of the law enables the direct application of EU Regulation 1011 of 2016 in the Croatian legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71534	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the first in line in front of the Independent List Bridge, Mr. Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right. The second is Mrs Gordana Peric in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71535	... So here is the focus of this law on the implementation of the index regulation that is used as reference values, in fact it was also a consumer, it was a legal person or a natural person. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, here in this High House, it is often mentioned that all of these, all of us consumers are actually cut off in one way or another, because we don't have the right information. One is charged in high interest rates, high margins, especially from banking institutions. So here, and this is how, in fact, by applying this regulation itself, these credit institutions will actually calculate as high-quality benchmarks as possible, which will maintain the right situation on the money market. However, for this purpose and for this purpose, the regulation adopted, for the sake of harmonisation, therefore, of this regulatory legislative framework for benchmarks at EU level, thus ensuring that consumers and investors are protected as well. We know for ourselves that when you edit and determine the area itself, it is very speculative how and in what way, actually calculate such benchmarks. However, in this way, these financial instruments, and thus the reflection that will be on contracts that are being negotiated or loans that are being given, will actually be much more quality, i.e., there are fewer manipulations and allow us to have full information about the situation on the market and what we can expect as consumers in the future. What is important, and here, is already mentioned in part, that, the euro library and the library, are actually these benchmarks we had, are opportunities to meet them as consumers in the negotiation of any credit. So that, through the adoption of this law, it is possible to make a direct observation in the Croatian legal system, in fact, in our legislation, and this will bring our legislation into line with the EU acquis. In fact, we meet what the regulation itself is making, and thus we protect ourselves and our market from all possible events that could happen in any future conditions of any crisis or major earthquakes, as mentioned above, there are 3 benchmarks in us, which is Crobex, Zibor and the national reference rate. The national reference rate is therefore calculated or formed for a period of 3, 6 and 12 months and is calculated by the Croatian Banking Association. Also a zibor, which is formed in the interbanking, Croatian interbank market. Zibor is publicly available on information systems... And on our website. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Crobex is a reference value whose administrator is the Zagreb Stock Exchange and the supervision is performed by HANFA while the data contributor is also the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Here is how, as a club, we support the adoption of such a bill in any case, we support the adoption of such a proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Regulation, because in this way it will really be possible for any legal, any natural person to have as much quality insight as possible into the movement of benchmarks, and thus the expectations that we can have on the financial market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71536	Thank you, too. Mr. Boris Lalovac in front of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the latest in a series of current financial laws is the proposal for a law implementing the index regulation used as benchmarks. Therefore, the proposal for a law implementing the index regulation used as benchmarks allows for the direct application of the Regulation in such a way as to determine the authorities responsible for the enforcement of the supervision of the application of the Regulation, is here referred to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and the CNB as well as their division of competence, part-time work and powers. It is a regulation to apply from 1 January 2018 in all Member States. An infringement of the anti-registration and the amount of fines shall also be prescribed for individual infringements of the legal and natural persons to which this Regulation applies. But what's the real deal here? Essentially, this Regulation is done both in the European Commission and throughout the financial markets after the major financial crisis in 2008, where the aim was to prevent potential market manipulations of benchmarks in terms of their inaccuracy and inaccuracy, which undermines market confidence and causes losses to consumers and investors who have a direct impact on the economy. This Regulation was created on the basis of cases of manipulation at reference interest rates, and you have heard about it. The biggest case, in fact, of what happened or what was actually unimaginable to adjust, manipulate, or on the financial market EURIBOR. I mean, when it came out to the public whether, they always taught us that a market is so big that nobody really has that much information, or no one has so much resources that it can affect the EURIBOR reference rate. EURIBOR is your basic rate, the rate so-called Without a risk where a bank lends money to another bank on the international global financial or foreign exchange market where billions and billions of daily transactions are taking place and that these transactions are later compared and that some value, or at the end of this EURIBOR, or that so-called The risk of free interest rate, that she even managed to adjust. Imagine what is going on with all the other interest rates, what fellow Alexic said or some other values when that basic interest rate that is, which as many as billions and billions of dollars has to go through to finally throw out some kind of value of theirs and then actually state, and we know that this is one case that is actually also the insider from the financial industry they actually talked about. What happened? So in 2008, American institutions launched one of the major global investigations that have so far resulted in over 30 indictments and imagine now nine billion dollars in fines paid to banks and brokerage houses. $9 billion has been charged to banks and those institutions that participated in the abuse or setting up and basic reference rates. This is already enough motive, so by changing the EURIBOR rate, the interest rate has changed, because when you change the EURIBOR, you change the total interest rate, which shifts the risk of change from the bank to the debtor. Look out! We're still here in Croatia. We're talking about how banks changed the fixed margin. So what they were changing was they got the money and then they changed it as that EURIBOR grew or fell, and out there are actually procedures against banks that still don't care about changing, but they've changed the EURIBOR as well. So in 2013, the European Commission punished 8 international financial companies with a record 1.7 billion euros for manipulating the European interbank interest rate of EURIBOR and its Japanese equivalent to TIBOR. So, in 2013, the European Commission fined banks with 1.7 billion euros. Before that, you have Americans punishing banks with $9 billion. Because they manipulated and framed EURIBOR. So much about what we can and what we should offer Croatian citizens when we talk about defining interest rates and we have repeatedly said that all risks are borne by debtors. All the risks are also borne by debtors and that, in fact, all these rulings, i.e. the settlements, ultimately, have both confirmed and the whole process is later to be adopted by the European Commission in order to prevent such manipulations in the future. Such manipulations were not only on the financial market. Such manipulations were also on the energy market, the oil market, etc. etc. So, all those products that directly affect consumers. And what the European Commission says then is that you must bring in all countries because there are a lot of these benchmarks and then they propose this regulation, means a common framework for ensuring the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts, and guaranteeing them a uniform and consistent application of the provisions in the Member States and greater legal certainty and preventing obstacles to cross-border business. It has already been said here that there are three benchmarks on the Croatian market, namely Crobex, ZIBOR and national reference interest rates. Now that we're talking about Crobex we know that and that's what we're saying here today, the administrator of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, etc., surveillance of HANFA, but how shallow is it that one transaction of certain securities you saw just what happened with Agrokor, here we can only take Agrokor. And imagine that someone based on this Crobex based on it forms some kind of further service as reference values. What happened when he sank Ledo, Jamnica, how many went down? At 70, 80, 90% went down, when the deal was open, whether there would be settlements, whether there would be settlements, and that's what we've been saying here and openly, and what I personally thought was the regulator as soon as he saw it. I also actually talked to Prime Minister Plenkovic about the case that HANFA should have regulated and stopped trading until a settlement was reached. That's my opinion. So all the release of shares from Agrokor's companies, and if a deal hadn't been made yet, you can see that a deal hasn't been made yet, the regulator should have stopped. That's my personal opinion. You know why? When the crisis occurs, when the panic function of the regulators is such a market stops to freeze, so that no irreparable damage happens. And what happened? They did, it seems to me the government has reacted with lex Agrokora they're not yet not to say for months, but surely for days they haven't stopped trading shares. Then after someone was set up, they did it and then they let the deal back on the market before it was finished. And what happened? It went down 80%, instead of waiting for a deal. Isn't it the same when someone has a share and when they say, look, the deal's over, it won't be written off as much as it is, is that these are all manipulations so far. These are all market influences. And what's happening there today in the Committee on Economy is the manipulation of what information the Commissioner will give, what a 56 billion kuna settlement will look like on the other hand. And now someone who owns these certain shares believe me there were those on the market, so we're saying that the Kinghhead Fund is one of those who came and used that information on the market can ultimately affect this Crobex as a reference value. Is there so little market in us that one, two such shares of Crobex go red and actually a long, long day there can be. So that's the first value we see for ourselves that by this law, one case of Agrokor can be manipulated by Crobex because it's simply such a market. You have two shares, on the other hand it does not react to the market, there are large amounts and can be manipulated by that value. ZIBOR also, in my view, is a very shallow market, meaning the interest rate defined in the interbank market, you can imagine when the world banks managed to manipulate the interest rate of EURIBOR that this could not be between five, six banks on the Croatian financial market. I remember my colleague Shuker very well, perhaps even more, how important this ZIBOR is when bonding is issued and what it means for the Ministry of Finance to be in debt, so I remember it seems to me at that time when he was, so there was interest up to 30%. And be careful, then what can the Minister of Finance do? It happens to him that overnight, and we know that there is liquidity in the market, interest rate, and it is also an initial to you when it is later defined and when someone is going to invest in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, whether or not we know that the vault records are also being referred to and 30% was at one time it seems to me somewhere there in 2010 and 40% 2010, 2011. Now someone's gonna tell me there was no manipulation on the market. What can the government do? He can't do anything. There's nothing simple about it because it's on the market. When you have several such players, simply the Ministry of Finance is valued on the market that it cannot react at all. And then you... are you gonna take it or you're not gonna take it, and you just don't have a chance. As for the ZIBOR, when we see what we had in the past as its history, and since the market is very shallow and we see recently and that in the market interest rates that in the CNB... always 6 to 7 billion kunas of excess liquidity is the question of such high liquidity on the market and on the other hand the inability of the plasma as such 6 to 7 billion kuna can certainly affect this part of the ZIBOR manipulation. And finally we come to a national reference rate whose administrator is the Croatian Banks Association, and the supervision is performed by the CNB. And there's the one now... saying it defines the interest rate on housing loans. As a colleague of Grozdana said that we remember EURIBOR well, so all the placements that were defined for you were EURIBOR plus some fixed margin. What happens then is that lately it is beginning to happen that for what happened with EURIBOR, the CNB recommends banks no longer to negotiate EURIBOR but to go to the national reference interest rate as the average cost of financing in the Republic of Croatia. However, what happens on our market, regardless of what gives them certain parameters for determining these interest rates, and where, on the other hand, there is capital where such banks that are not used, do not listen to the CNB or in other words, do not use the RNA as a source of funding to which this fixed margin is added, which we have just talked about before, can be penalized by banks that take such an inappropriate risk. What is the situation currently on the market in Croatia? According to the bank's data as a reference rate, this is the rate to which this fixed margin is added, mainly selected by EURIBOR or LIBOR means 34% of the interest rates of residential loans, so 34% of your housing credit is still tied to EURIBOR while 44% of your consumer credit is tied to EURIBOR. Now I'm telling you one more time. So when they furniture EURIBOR, then you can think that it affects these 34% of citizens who have housing loans or these 44% that they have in consumers. While the NRS is the national reference interest rate, it uses the actual average cost of financing what Croatian banks use as their sources in determining interest rates, 28%, in housing and only 33% in consumer loans. So, and we saw, in fact, and we listened to the public say that in the future, EURIBOR will grow. He's now at historically low levels, he's somewhere at zero, even below zero to actually know the policy of the Central Bank, meaning so-called. Quantitative leasing, means printing that money something similar to what the Americans were actually doing to boost the economy. Europe was also located in a long period of stagnation and this EURIBOR today no one is saying anything, but today EURIBOR at rates somewhere from zero to minus and you have a fixed margin of about three, four percent and therefore are still interest rates as the governor said in Croatia about three to four percent. And then the question arises what happens if in the future EURIBOR starts to grow, and before the crisis, EURIBOR was 4%. So 4 plus that fixed margin 4, the interest was 8. Now he's zero plus those four, so interest was supposed to be four or four percent. What's gonna happen? Will he in the future when he grows up, Is it going to transfer it to the citizens? [[Time Mr. Lalovec, time.]] Thank you. And the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71538	But now Mr. Schooker will be replicating you, so you'll be able to add something else. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71539	Dear Lalovac, it's good that you remembered some things because there in those crisis years of 2009, 2010 interest on overnight engagement was more than 40%. And at that time, the state was the only one who had some money on her, because you have certain periods when the Treasury is making payments. Then when the money comes to the Treasury and then it's been a while. Then the banks realized why the state would pay me 40% and then suddenly the interest on that overnight engagement went down practically to some few percent. However, when we talk about EURIBOR for the simple reason that again someone will say that a minister or governor is guilty he is now on historically low branches. But what we're all warning about is that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow he's not going to be zero, or -0.25, but he's going to be what I know 1 or 1.5, and that automatically means that they have, they don't have a fixed interest rate that interest rate is growing up. And if you have a risk coefficient like Croatia, unfortunately, still has, although I think it is unfair in relation to Slovenia or others, because we have been told constantly, you are risky because you are not a member of the EU. And then we entered the EU, so no one told us that you are no longer so risky because you have now become a member of the EU and is reducing our risk coefficient and is not Minister Maric, nor Government, nor you, nor anyone else if the state is currently in debt with 2.75, 2.80. Simply that risk coefficient is somewhere for Croatia I think at this point about 1.70 and the Slovenians have 0.70, the Germans have -0.25. And now that you look at this huge amount of money that turns around, it's a lot of manipulations that you can play with any way you want, and you've mentioned the Zagreb Stock Exchange case well. One worse transaction of a slightly larger company CROBEX goes to hell And then that's not any reference indicator. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71540	Time. Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, yes, I agree that, when we have opened these issues today, we have also raised EURIBOR and NRS and interest rates, and in what way and when we have such a shallow market and as regards the ZIBOR and as regards the NRS and as regards CROBEX, due to such a low, shallow market, one to two transactions can cause major problems. And in the end, that part of the problem will always be paid by the citizens, and because of that, regardless of what I say, I support this law, or this regulation, because it has been happening to the greater ones than we have. But I absolutely agree with you. They spoke first of EU entry you'll have a lower risk, so there's been a recession, I agree. Today we are talking about a better, macroeconomic environment, but this is still not reflected in the price of capital that we are paying. We pay something lower than we had a smaller investment rating, but still, I think, when you compare some countries and say what a debt level is. Well, there's Belgium, there's more than 100% public debt, so you have a 10 times lower interest rate than Croatia. So those ratios weren't clear at times, but hopefully we will. We are a young player on the European market and I hope that they will and will still make money on us. It's so in terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71542	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71543	Proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks, first reading, P.Z. No. 287. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, the first adoption of the proposal for a Law implementing EU Regulation 2016/1011 on indices used as benchmarks and other all objections and proposals will be made to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 117 for, nine abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71544	We move to the last item of today's agenda - The election of presidents and members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs is based on...... What's this about? [[You can't hear it.]] All right. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee shall be based on Article 32 and in conjunction with Article 31. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest submitted to the Croatian Parliament a single final list for the election of the president or president of the Commission for the decision on conflict of interest and a single final list for the selection of members of the Committee, that because the two candidates are fine. A unique final list for the selection of members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. Okay, my bad. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Mr Antu Sanader to further explain the single lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, short summary. It means that at the 12th meeting of the Committee held on 6 July 2017, a decision has been taken to publish a public call for the selection of presidents and members of the committee with a date of 11 August 2017. This was done, the public call was made in accordance with Article 32(2) and (3) of the National Journal, the website of the Croatian Parliament and the Vecernji List and the deadline for submission of the application was set within 15 days of the date of publication of the public call. In accordance with Article 32(4) of the Law, at the 16th meeting of the Committee on 20 September 2017, the Committee set out a list of candidates who meet the conditions for the President or members of the Commission and made that list through the official website of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 32(5) of the Law, at the 18th session held on 27 and 28 September 2017, the Committee held talks with candidates. Thirty-four candidates were invited to the interview, with 28 candidates responding. In line with the above, 28 candidates were requested and a thorough security check was carried out. And these 28 candidates were on the board on 9 February 2018, which is the 24th session of the committee, we have drawn up a single final list of candidates, invited candidates to submit the reports on the property and the reasoned lists together with the résumés of the proposed candidates to the Croatian Assembly. And those unique lists of candidates you've won, so for the presidents of the two candidates. The list to elect the chairman of the Committee for Conflict of Interests was passed by Novakovic Natasa, a graduate lawyer and Oreshkovic Dalia. Novakovic Natasa received 8 votes for and 4 votes abstentioned, and Mrs. Oreskovic Dalia was unanimously proposed by all members of the board. They're for the president. And for the members of the Committee on Conflict of Interests, there were 7 members, and that was Christmas Toncic who received 7 votes for and 5 abstentions, the second candidate Ivanjek Davorin, who received 7 votes for and 5 abstentions from the board. Candidate Jozic Ilekovic Aleksandra has been unanimously proposed by board members, candidate Petrichusic Antonija received 11 votes for and 1 vote abstention. Candidate Prkut Duje was unanimously proposed by board members, candidate Vučetic Tatjana received 7 votes in favour and 5 abstentions from the board. Candidate Zelic Dragan received 11 votes and 1 vote abstention. Here's all their names and résumés you got in the materials. At its session, the parliament must elect a candidate by secret vote, with a majority of 76 votes. Here's a brief piece of what the board has been doing and what we're putting Parliament up for debate today, tomorrow for decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71546	Thank you very much. It's started with clubs. First Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the bridge club of independent lists, he's gone, he's losing his right. Second Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71547	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are at the end of a strip, a saga that lasts longer than it should have been and it is bad that we have left in the public space for speculation, why the Croatian Parliament is somehow late with this choice. 5 is 12 or 12 and 5 may even be in some interpretations because it is a body that is extremely important. Both for the democratic character of society on the one hand and on the other for democratic surveillance of the work of state officials. As we know, conflict of interest as an institute is one of those whose regulation is extremely important in any advanced democracy. The confidence of citizens in institutions and politics and then politicians depends on the credibility of their actions and behaviour. The conflict of interest itself is a space in which you can therefore, at the expense of the public achieve something in favour of the private. And it is not a small number of cases that the commission has so far detected as cases that, in that sense, are a danger to democracy in Croatia and a bad message for the future behaviour of politicians. The space to prevent conflicts of interest is definitely something that is constantly being built. We are one of the few countries that has laws defined above all the criteria and then sanctions, other parliaments have dealt with them by ethical codes or similar documents. We have done more or less well in several legal acts. There are further irregularities and the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest on several occasions in the submission of an annual report suggests that we, as legislator, need to approach amendments, in a way to modernise, modernise and harmonise the existing legal framework within which there is an assessment of whether or not there is a conflict of interest. The government has not heard this, for a long time the government has been ignoring what comes as an input from the commission and then the Commission does not rarely find itself in a situation where it has to interpret certain provisions that are not fully specified and part of the public, especially those that may be affected by such interpretations, testify or advocate the views that the commission has exceeded its powers in this regard. It is not the Commission's fault, it is our fault, first of all, as a legislator who we are silently waiting for whether the Government will finally launch amendments and amendments to that regulation and create cleaner, more transparent and fairer conditions for the work of the commission. Why would I bring that up? It's an ambiance in which the real effect of the commission happens. If we take into account the legal framework and the circumstances in which the Commission operates and the way in which it is very much, I would say to the prosaic and, on the other hand, popular cases have dealt publicly with certain situations, it has led the commission to be seen in part of the political spectrum with certain reserves with constant burdens that it is about politicising its work. But if we want to be objective and see and analyze what the commission has been doing in the last 5 years, we will see that it is an extremely great effort to try to keep a high flag of transparency in the behaviour and of course ethics in the behaviour of state officials in the current legal framework. The fact that some state officials, including parliamentarians, did not take into account the rules which were defined what they should and should not at one stage, at that first stage acted in a way and informatively, i.e., i.e. educationally. In some cases where the commission was mild, it was actually shown how it should look in practice. And many colleagues and colleagues who came to the situation that because of the irregular or incomplete fulfillment of the property cards unfortunately came to grips with parts of the media understood this well-meaningly and without any great penalties the corrections were carried out relatively quickly. And at that time when the cards were filled by hand and when they had to print all these cards was very, very much work, now it's kind of digitized, so it's easier, but in any case it wasn't enough for some government officials to know how important it was to stick to the law, so we have cases where government officials in each year of their mandate, especially some at the local level, bring in one big property card and we don't know where they come from and from which, of which money, of which these salaries are... And then they don't write down the correct data yet and they forget that the commission in the meantime has adventured technical skills, and now it's looking at land books, and it's looking at property records on different media, so it finds out that you forgot to report the real estate your husband or husband bought two years ago, but it forgot to sign in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The penalties that were cut off in such cases were not great, and they really served all of us as an incentive to think carefully before we came to a gray zone where we might dare to say something. I'm telling me thinking of all of us, not esculating any of us, but the fact that the commission was acting preventively, acting and soberingly, was acting with political impulses. And in some situations that have been very turbulent and in some ways may be burning. For example, the Karamarko case, these were situations in which the commission was placed very principledly, and so now that the end of the term of office of this assembly has called on all colleagues and colleagues to preserve the continuity of the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and not to allow this commission to be fully in discontinuity. First of all, in human capacity. It is very important that the system that has been being built for 10 years is relying on everything that has been acquired from before and that we have simply one continuity that will allow us to keep growing standards and not to go back to the beginning and to put ourselves in a position to interpret tomorrow that political pressure has been made by the decision of the Croatian Parliament, by the fact that most members or members of the commission are moving. Let's do exactly the opposite, ensure continuity if it is necessary to give and personnel renewal to that body but first of all, let's make an effort as a legislator to create regular, good and quality conditions for the work of the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. Because it's the easiest thing to do is to twist the pipe, not to let the job be done properly and then have any objections to the work of that committee. In any case, as regards GLAS and HSU, we estimate that Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic's work so far has been extremely important, quality, good and open to the public, that conflict and scandal have been avoided and that an atmosphere has been established in which the commission has been responsible for doing its task defined by law. In this regard, we invite other clubs to support Mrs Dalia Orekovic's re-election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71548	Thank you, too. You have one replica from Mr. Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71549	Here's my colleague Beus. I'm glad you were here to express your clear support for Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic. This is where you said you needed continuity. It's been 10 years, so it's been a very good thing, everything's perfect, and you wouldn't really change anything, and you're even contesting the legitimacy of politics or the Croatian Parliament to decide on it. It's kind of like you're sorry, not like you're sorry, but actually you said that you're sorry in some way, that there's been a re-election at all, and you'd actually be kind of a demographic spirit intolerant, actually concreteized this commission, so let it stand forever and ever. As you have invited, here are colleagues to vote for Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic, I call on colleagues to vote on colleague Novakovic, because I believe she is the best candidate from the proposed ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71550	Thank you. Just a moment, Mr. Zekanovic, but I haven't heard that Mr. Richemberger, he's confused, it's said that others don't have the right to another opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71551	Dear Vice President, I've heard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71552	And now we are, we have different ears, here you go, Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71553	Mr. Zekanovic, it's an honor to congratulate you. You've gone one step further than my wife. She hears what I don't say and she knows what I think. So, you're in half, you're in half of the debate, and you're taking the right to give a definitive assessment of what I said. That's not correct. Because what you've been imputing me, I haven't told you at all. So, standing up for continuity doesn't mean concrete to be concrete, but to stand up to the policy of discontinuity. The stability of institutions, which is one of the preconditions of their functionality, is an extremely important story of continuity. You, of course, have the right without any problem, to advocate someone else, to advocate discontinuity. You have the right, to say that nothing has ever been right so far, that everything needs to be done from the beginning, and that everything that has been done so far has actually been bad, but it doesn't stand. You'll have to explain that. After all, you have now responded to me, as an individual representative, I have spoken on behalf of the club, I am interested, as your club representative will say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71554	We move to another debate in this case of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mrs. Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71555	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleague, all hail you, us who are here. And I'm going to take a quick look at this proposal on behalf of the HDZ Club. The chairman of the board briefly explained the whole procedure which was implemented in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. We received the final lists, which were proposed in front of the board and I can say that I believe that after seeing all the applications of all the candidates, who applied for a public call, then after interviews, with those candidates, who met the conditions prescribed by the law, that they really chose those who were b or best and proposed the best, to us further to decide. What I would say is that it is actually from the resume of all the proposed candidates and these two candidates who are proposed for the chairman of the commission, and also from candidates and candidates who are proposed for members of the committee, it is visible that they all have good predisposition for the conduct of the duties, and I believe that those who are elected will indeed behave honorably, in the interest of the public, in accordance with the law, and also by protecting public interest. The proposed candidates shall be elected to a term of five years, as they have been and to which the term of office of the day has elapsed. What would point out is that the Commission is in accordance with the law, a permanent independent and independent body, and it is prohibited to influence its work, which could endanger that independence and independence in making its decisions. It is precisely because of the perception of the public regarding the work and functioning of the public authorities and officials in those bodies that we have in society one such body that serves as a control mechanism, whose work is transparent and independent. It is precisely aware of these facts that the HDZ Government has passed the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, and the basis of this law was later established by the Commission. The core task of the commission is to control the prevention of conflicts between private and public interest in the conduct of public duties. We can say that this body is still relatively young and that so far it has proved that they have actually created practice in this area and that their many opinions and decisions have indeed tried in the best possible way to act in those situations, when they were really suspected of the existence of conflicts of interest. Of course, I want to say that our law, which has been amended and amended more than once so far, so I believe one of the more rigid laws covering this matter, comparing it with other countries of Europe, or the EU, can be said that the commission has been in a difficult situation many times, because many of the situations they have faced did not have a basis for resolving the law itself. And therefore, many times they were in a position to make opinions or decisions, without the support and basis of the regulation itself. Of course, since the beginning of this work, there have been little wanderings, which is also natural and normal since they have not been able to express the way and have created this practice of resolving conflicts of interest, identifying conflicts of interest and reacting to it, who have been and some decisions which have been disputed, and by decision of the Constitutional Court of 2012 the parts of the provisions of the laws which have been prescribed that the commission has the right to determine the facts of its own actions, then that banking and other institutions are obliged, without delay at the request of the Commission, to supply them with the evidence sought, then the provisions resulting from which the commission determines the disproportionateness of the property of the officials and the possibility that the commission should not submit the report on the property or show it incorrectly and untruely express a proposal for the resolution of public duties or those directly elected to resign or to resign, respectively. So we can say that there has been progress in this entire journey so far in this area and through changes in the regulation itself, and it has also evolved only through its work. We certainly have a better situation in this area today than it was. In this regard, we expect that those members of the commission and the presidents who are elected will also contribute to their future work to further improve legislation in this area, to propose what needs to be changed, as did the commission so far, that they will also have a clear sense that I do not say hearing about this issue and that they will really recognise in those cases that are borderline on what is right and how a decision should be made and how to act. What I want to say in the end, that regardless of which of the proposed candidates we will choose, I believe that they will act equally honorably, primarily by protecting their professional, professional and personal integrity, but also by protecting the public interest above all, protecting both personal and professional integrity and all public officials who are willing to be responsible for their work of the public, also to give their property card to the public, but who also have the right to a minimum protection of their personality and privacy. Here's an esteemed colleague and colleague, here's a contribution to the debate on this subject in front of the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71556	We have a replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71557	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues. In your debate, you mentioned yourself in one section that legislation should be improved, in order to change the legislation. Since there has been about 4.5 hours of debate on the Committee on Economy on which Mr Ramljak was and where a series of things have been launched, what do you think should be taken into account in the future to avoid such situations as we have now, that perhaps through amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest are defined and conflicts of interest in cases where we have special laws, when we have special commissioners? I suppose that's not going to happen in Croatia, but you never know what can happen so that maybe there's some kind of open door in that way because all we have in the public space is a questionable hiring of these consultants, which is more so that there's one law that's been in Italy for a similar case in which it's said, it was a provision in the law that one who's a special commissioner or an extraordinary commissioner can't hire people from former companies and others. And now the whole debate and actually one big shadow to say permanent to the whole Lex Agrokora process is under suspicion, so I'm curious what you think that, in the future, through the changes to a regulation like this, you might want to think about such extraordinary situations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71558	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71559	Dear colleagues. When I talked about improving the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I thought of other situations that we now have on the ground every day because there were no uniformly resolved certain situations relating precisely to public officials appointed as such by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. What you're talking about, well, I don't know, we can exchange opinions here right now, so it's not at all a sphere of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest or of public officials, so I think it's jurisdictional, let's just say, special law. We could talk about it when we brought Lex Agrokor. I was also present at the committee's meeting, and I think the Deputy Prime Minister explained what we do know about the powers of the extraordinary administration or the extraordinary administrator appointed by the court for his further rights and obligations are subject to provisions that apply to bankruptcy managers, so in that segment, all provisions of the acquired law are applicable to the situation. In the future, can we preside over similar situations and prescribe them? Maybe we can. But probably not, I'm sure not this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but then some of the specific regulations that these situations relate to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71560	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the next club, Mr. Arsen Bauk's SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative's club within the Committee on Selection and Designation, Administrative Affairs and now within the plenary session will participate in the selection of members of the president, i.e., presidents and members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. I would also like to inform the public that at this point there is no agreement between the parliamentary majority or part of the parliamentary majority and the opposition about members to decide on a conflict of interest, which means that the SDP Club will support those candidates who also hold a session of the Committee on Elections and Appointments and Administrative Affairs. As for the candidate, that is, the presidential candidate, we will support the current president. We believe that she has earned the new trust of the Croatian Parliament in her work, the more that in all 4 or 5 years of office, the Croatian Parliament convincingly and without a large number of votes against or abstentions accepted reports by the Committee on Conflict of Interest, not only did she accept, but the debates were cornered. Enriched with praise and with some well-intentioned suggestions on how to fix further work. Since the other candidate who was proposed for the president, and in the framework of participation in the working groups, she also collaborated with the government, whose member I was, as well as specifically with the ministry that I led. She was, for example, in a committee that worked on a public administration development strategy, and there's nothing wrong with saying about this candidate. As for the proposed candidates for members, the parliamentary majority has proposed several more candidates, two of which are the previous members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, and two other candidates, one of whom is in line with our proposal. I hope that this will not be a difficult circumstance for the candidate who has proposed the parliamentary majority and also the parliamentary majority proposal, we have added 3 new names and that we will support at the plenary session. What I want to say is that it is clear that either the parliamentary majority has agreed on about 5 candidates for which they will announce tomorrow or we will have an incomplete Committee on Conflict of Interest. It is a clear mathematical consequence of the fact that you have proposed six candidates, that you have not agreed with the opposition and that you have 78 votes. So, either you all have to vote for the very five and you have 6 candidates, to say Croatian, or there is a danger of not selecting members of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. As we have not seen clearly in this debate neither the HDZ Club nor other parliamentary majority clubs, which candidates support. As the committee's session voted for all candidates who have proposed, therefore, it is very certain that the result of the vote at the plenary session could be the administrative opposite of the result of the vote on the election and appointment committee. But we'll see about that tomorrow afternoon. Therefore, there is no agreement with the opposition, and there is no clear position of parliamentary majority clubs on candidates who have been tabled, we are left to attend the session, vote and wait for results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71562	Thank you, too. Mr. Bauk, you have two replicas first Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71563	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleague Bauk, so this afternoon, this afternoon's debate on the Committee for Decision-Making of Conflict of Interest I am sure that, in the context of all events, colleagues and colleagues are probably a little tired or what you have already said, there may be a certain agreement. So I would, in the context of that, we stand for continuity and I wish there was a continuity with some new faces, as if I were to say fresh blood, because there are no big reasons why we at the GLASS Club and HSU don't favor anyone but the continuity that they would be. I must admit that I somehow believe that the ruling majority has agreed and that there will be no big problems. They've done it successfully so far, so I don't see why it would have worked, why it wouldn't have been successful this time. But it's interesting that on the side of the opposition, I don't generally have any agreement, so we're going to vote in a colourful way, which shows that there are good candidates. And it should be commended that there are good candidates. And what needs to be taken into account in the future, which is the commission. Every official comes to the commission sooner or later, and when you're an intimate subject, then you can get a little angry. But what's important is that everyone is treated the same way, that they apply the same rules to everyone, that they have clear, that I say the rules of the game, and that must be commended by this committee to prevent conflicts of interest. It really worked that way and it would be good to at least partially, starting at the top, and then further being continuity. But what you said, we'll see, therefore, on the side of the opposition, there was no conversation in that sense, but it's nothing unusual. And I, colleague Bauk, must say, deeply believe that 78 hands are for 5, respectively, the president and four other members of the commission. But if there's a leaky commission, it won't stop the commission from still working.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71564	Time, Mrs. Dark Taritash. Mr. Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71565	... If, in this vote, 78 parliamentary majority MPs in the secret vote do not vote for 5 of the same candidates, it should be congratulated, it should not now be subtracted as a minus, that it is clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, therefore, the parliamentary majority has proposed of the 5 existing members of the Commission 3. So in that sense, we can say that such continuity will be ensured. Whether continuity will be ensured in the sense that the president of the commission remains the same, this is now the issue of primarily parliamentary majority MPs and I hope that the result of the vote for the president will be approximately proportionate to the vote on the committee, if not and what we can do. So the fact is also that this is not the choice of the Constitutional Court, so for this, if the parliamentary majority agree independently we can take it into consideration and say that they could agree much better but honestly and much worse. So this proposal that came from them could have been much worse, so objectively looking at their 6 proposed candidates with 3 I personally cooperated and 2 were up to the present members. So the only one is unknown. ... 5, 5, 5, 5, two so far are members, and now this 3 five and one candidate I don't know 6, somehow, so there's no big one. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We can't just now, from all the weapons, criticize their proposal, it could have been far, far worse. So, we've fixed it a little bit, we'd be happy to have them back, yeah, it could be, yeah. We would, of course, be happy that those within their quota support one of these three that we have proposed but we can't ask them too much, so we'll see tomorrow at the vote. Basically, I just want to say that there's no deal and they didn't need the deal except between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71566	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. It's the best situation when we don't even talk to them. Mr. Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71567	Well, sir and colleague Bauk, I will stand up to this weight of yours well enough not to fight. You know it's not good, because the elevation of the commission, its stability and functionality would be much greater if the fruit of consultation, goodwill and one consensual approach of the Croatian Parliament and not that it is actually a product of will only the ruling majority without any consultation with anyone else. And you know what they say down there in Dalmatia, that man and cargo are smarter than man. It would be a good idea to send a message to the public that the Croatian Parliament trusted the institution, whose reports had been accepted without reservation for 5 years. And what happens tomorrow? If Dalia Oreshkovic, or if she is not allowed to continue to lead this commission and be in it, will be sent a very clear sign that this punishment is because this commission has dared to initiate proceedings against some very prominent state officials from the current ruling majority, the most recent example is the case of the President of the Republic who has been so boldly treating the Commission that this is amazing. In that case, she acted as the queen of the Balkans rather than the president of Croatia. And I do not want her to be the queen of the Balkans but rather the president of the Republic of Croatia, so the most positioned state official, responsible for the institutions of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71568	The Balkans is not a monarchy, Mr. Richembergh. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71569	So fellow Richembergh, what you said about man and cargo that know more than man, I wouldn't want in that role to turn out, in that division role to turn out this second. So it's not always that cargo and man know more than cargo, it's also probably true. So now, the question that's what. So the fact is that the parliamentary majority can choose a commission to conflict the interests of all 5 members and that you said well not to beat them, so I don't think that's such an approach, then we didn't have to propose theirs, so even from 6 of theirs would choose "theirs" in alleged signs. So the fact is also that this commission is in the current composition of whose continuity we stand for if we say the hand to the heart wasn't the fruit of consulting ruling and opposition, only that we were something better ruling, so we chose good and without them, maybe they would spoil our choice, so this, this commission actually, this commission turned out to be good and maybe it would be best if they let us choose the commission again so that maybe it would be good. So it's clear that... What, what? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it is clear in this case that tomorrow's vote will take place, since it is only possible to vote for one candidate to see the result. And the fact is, if Mrs. Oreshkovic doesn't stay president of the commission, it was the parliamentary majority's wish. And then we will have the legitimate right to talk about why it was the will of the parliamentary majority and that will probably be the consequence, it will probably be the subject of our mutual debates in the coming years and it will be one burden in the new commission that will have to watch what it does on the one hand when it comes to ruling and on the other hand will have certain mistrust in the beginning by those who have advocated continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71570	Thank you very much. And finally, right at the end of Mr. Hrelja. It's an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71571	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As Vice-President of the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, I have participated in all these activities that the Committee has carried out and I can say that all activities have been carried out in time and with due attention, so from the call for tenders to interviews, to security checks but we are in no way clear why we have actually come to this delay and what is this tactics, I simply cannot understand it, perhaps the chairman of the Committee knows something more about it, or someone or someone else because we could have, given the work done, we could have both the President or the chairman of the Commission to decide on the conflict of interest and members before the end of their term of office. But we're where we are. I'll just say a few dilemmas that bother me. In fact, we have one on a single list for the president, and I have two candidates, one of whom is only running for president, and the other for president and member, so in the election process, I am interested in whether it would be correct to hold elections for the president first, so if the old president remains that the other candidate has the right to participate in the election as a member. Another dilemma, we among the candidates for members, have people who have also run for president, i.e. the chairman of the commission, and I think that the board has taken the arbitration position to eliminate someone from that position because nowhere has been declared as a criterion that someone can run for president and whether they can also participate in the election for a member. But the decisions on the board have been made and I will respect them, but I am obliged to warn these possibilities and these indiscretions. Otherwise, I think there is more, my personal opinion is that there were more candidates and candidates here who deserved to be on a unique list for the president or president of the commission like there was something else and candidates, not much more than what was decided for the members of the commission. I personally participated in an interview with about 24 candidates, so I did some rank lists. I would also like to rely on my colleague Goran Beus Richembergh's exposure to continuity because I think the continuity in this assembly is very badly understood. It's not the continuity of the work, so let's get confused and let's keep it the way it is. Let's not change it. In my opinion, the continuity of the Committee's work on conflict of interest would be to keep at least two people of the old composition in the new composition. Perhaps even some rules and arrangements should say in such an important business that everyone never changes at once, what practice exists even in some parliaments that the whole structure does not change at the same time, so there is a certain continuity. This commission is too important to play here and start over every time. I personally believe that the commission has done a very good job, that it has created new legal practice, that is, new practice, and has in most cases made concrete and correct decisions, and that it has earned a very high passing grade, that it deserves a very high grade and that this is more our request and our application and appeal to all to take care of continuity. And continuity is made up of people, not papers, their decision-making experience, their experience in accessing the organisation of work, they would like to be more concerned about this appeal than about the mathematics that counterpart Bauk was talking about when they are intra-party or intra-coalising agreements to which the vote would be given. So, in some ways, I have the right and the duty to appeal because I was a member of the committee myself in my own time to decide on a conflict of interest even at a time when parliamentary representatives were members of the committee and I know that this is a very responsible work and work in which much more work should be done on prevention, warning and building up systems that then get about one role of the ethical code that everyone then respects. Here, I had a need to share this with you, and I hope, God of reason tomorrow, give God reason and continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71572	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71573	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, while you had an individual discussion, I think the deal was reached because my colleague Bauk was making an intense arrangement with his colleague Bačić, so I guess that's where the deal was reached because I was just going to ask you to give me a ranking of what you've been through, to see a little at the club and to choose from that rank, but a joke aside. It seems the same to me, so we have some candidates who, apart from running for board member, have also run for president. We have two candidates in the presidential election. One who has only run for president and who has until recently been the chairman of the commission and the other who has run for president and member alike. It seems to me that it would be really good, and that should still be considered by tomorrow to be the president's first choice, so if we happen to decide on the continuity and the current president, that from the lady who was proposed as president, it may be possible for her to be a member of the committee and it seems to me that it would be a good continuity, and in that sense it should be further considered by tomorrow whether it is possible to do so, and if the lady who until recently was president is not elected, then the more this debate is groundless. But it's still good to think about it and maybe it wouldn't be one bad option in that idea of continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71574	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71575	Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the SDP Club for a statement by Mrs. Mrak-Taritash please take a break to say that's not exactly what she said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71576	There's only one small problem I haven't given you my word. ... Mr. Bauk, I give you my word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71577	Mr. Vice President. I asked for a break to say on behalf of the SDP club that what Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said that there was an agreement that wasn't true, but as I already said then I'm giving up the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71578	You gave up your break, okay. But Mr. Hrelja did not give up and he will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71579	Thank you very much for your insight, Mr. Vice President. I said I warned about this dilemma about a candidate who ran for both president and member, but I'm afraid that answer cannot be given to you by me but can be given by the chairman of the board. And there is a single list that the committee has decided on, and I doubt the situation will change by tomorrow because it would take a session, a new committee session and an extension of the list after the presidential vote if the candidate did not pass, while wanting to go to the membership list. I prefer to say this that it is second-time more relevant and that more detailed rules on who can run for what can be run for and how these rules will look in some future because I believe that this is quite unarranged in this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71580	Thank you, too. And in the end, I said before that Mr. Hrelja was last, but in 89 minutes Mr. Jovanovic answered, and now he has the right to an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71581	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad I could make it, I had some obligations so I couldn't get here sooner, and I'm glad I'm symbolic and last because I want to speak more as president of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, since in our line of work there was a very important cooperation with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. Therefore, over the past period, we could see that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in spite of certain ambiguities of the current law had done a significant and large job. At one point in the EU accession period, Croatia could indeed become a leader in the fight against corruption in this region for the simple reason that we passed a whole series of laws and set up a whole series of different bodies that were tasked with fighting corruption, so from the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest through the Law on the Right to Access to Information, the Law on the Financing of Political Campaigns, the jumping verticals all of this was a great framework for fighting corruption. But unfortunately somewhere along the road after joining the EU, as has happened in some other countries, this enthusiasm of fighting corruption has somehow gone south. As far as the Commission is concerned, one of the main problems that has created difficulties in the work was the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest and I look forward to the ruling majority as it says in the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, according to the Anti-Corruption Strategy in the first quarter of 2018, to present here in the Assembly a new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which will then, on the basis of the experiences of this commission and everything that has happened in the past period, ensure that prevention in the fight against corruption has the meaning that it should have in every society. So not all conflicts of interest are corruption, but conflict is the lobby of corruption and it is therefore important that through the work of this Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, but also all other documents to be adopted by the Croatian Parliament and different ministries we ensure that prevention has greater importance in the fight against corruption. There's a Code of Ethics about the behaviour of state officials, an ethical code that we need to bring to parliament, where many don't understand that in that ethical code, a key place needs to have lobbying regulation. So lobbying as a gray zone in Croatia is still a place where there is a great possibility of conflict of interest, and then afterwards develops corruption. I think that the current commission led by Mrs Oreshkovic played an important role in creating a prerequisite for us to think in Croatia about prevention and that we as state officials act primarily only responsibly so that the commission would really be what its purpose is. So it is not the purpose of the commission to punish, it is not the purpose of the commission of repression, but is the purpose of prevention, and that is how we should look at it, and that is how a new law on preventing conflicts of interest should be drawn up which will play a very important and preventive role. With this in mind, I must say with satisfaction that the commission has developed one tool, so that everyone who listens to state officials, and who is a little naughty and likes to play, or forget to change the data in the property card, that the commission has developed a tool that is currently in the test phase and which at any moment can point to some illogical actions by officials who have not changed the data in the property card regarding assets, cadastrian books, vehicles that have bought, and have not reported this tool and thus shows that it has managed to achieve quality shifts in the development of tools that will ensure that the prevention of conflicts of interest and the fight against corruption in Croatia is better, better quality and more successful. Finally, I want to thank Mrs. Oreshkovic and all the members of the commission for having played one, but I can dare and say a pioneering role in developing the awareness of officials about the need for integrity in the work of all politicians so that politicians and politicians will not be the most hated job in the Republic in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71582	There may still be room for thanks in four years, five years, we'll see how the election goes. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And tomorrow, at 9.30, we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other hand, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 284. And after that, the vote will be at 12:00. Thank you. Goodbye! Session adjourned at 5:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71583	We are now going to elect the president and members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. The applicant is the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, the debate is closed. On the basis of Article 31 of my colleague Bulj, please, so behave yourself. Don't yell at me like I'm saying if you're yelling. On the basis of Art. 31. Laws to prevent conflicts of interest and art. 260 Rules of Procedures will be held in secret. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Art. 260 shall apply. until the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the date of entry into force of this Agreement shall be the date of entry into Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, I suggest that three MPs help me conduct a secret vote and that, Maria Jelokvac, Mato Čičak and Bojan Glavasevic. I remind you that MPs can only vote on one ballot in person, and only for candidates listed on the ballot. A valid ballot, a ballot from which it is safe and unequivocal, can be identified as the candidate for which the MP voted. The MP votes, so the ballot circles the regular number in front of the candidate's name. You can download ballots here in the big hall where the ballot boxes are. I'm fixing a 60-minute recess, after your break, please return to the councilroom to tell you the results of the vote. It's a meeting at 14.25 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here are the results of the vote to elect the president and members of the Committee to decide on a conflict of interest. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:30 A.M.]] I declare that of the 151 deputies of the ballot for the chairman of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest received 127 MPs, 127 MPs voted and invalid ballots were 6. I would like to stress that Article 31 is in accordance with Article 31. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for the election of presidents and members of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest needs most of all MPs, 76. Candidates for the president received the next number of votes, Novakovic Natasa 75, Oreshkovic Dalia 46. So I can declare the results and say that the chairman of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest has not been elected. I will now publish the election results for the board members to decide on a conflict of interest. I declare that out of 151 MPs, a ballot for members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest was received by 127 MPs, 127 MPs voted, invalid ballots were 6. Once again, I would like to stress that Article 31 is in line with Article 31. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for the selection of presidents and members of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest needs most of all MPs 76. The candidates for members of the Committee received the following votes: Christmas Tončica 80, Ivanjek Davorin 80, Jozić lekković Aleksandra 106, Petrić Cušić Antonija 44 and Prkut Duje 42, Vučetić Tatjana 82 and Zelic Dragan 29. I declare that for members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, Christmas Tončica, Ivanjek Davorin, Jozić Leković Aleksandra and Vučetić Tatjana were elected. Congratulations to the elected members of the Committee. And as for the election of the president, since the law does not predict what is happening in these situations, we have consulted the Rules of Procedure. 271st said, "If the required majority does not get the number of candidates elected, the vote is repeated for candidates who have not received the required majority. In the first repeat of the vote, candidates, who received less than one-fifth of the votes of the present MPs, in the second repeat of the vote, cannot participate in candidates who received less than a third of the votes of the present representatives. If no single candidate receives the required majority in the second re-vote, the proposal to elect the candidate shall be removed from the list of proposed candidates. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we would have to vote again, on the same candidates, because there is no quorum now, we can't do that today, but we'll do it at the first next session. In the meantime, we will consult the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, to give us an interpretation and most likely confirmation of such an attitude. So this concludes the session's work and we'll see you on February 28th. We begin with the point, the Final Proposal of the Law on Change and Completion of the Law on Professional Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 250. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71586	Mr. President, before you set a 45-minute break, we have a ridiculous need in the form of a 10-minute break, you may and may immediately contact the public to state our position on the Commission's vote on conflict of interest and That's what my colleague Peja Grbin is going to do because I've been here for a long time, so I'm a little indisposed, so he'll do better. [[Intruder Jandroković: you can now.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71587	There you go. You can show yourself right now. We have a colleague Grbin, a colleague of Podolnjak, a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, a colleague of Bunjac. Four demands. As far as I'm concerned, we can trust most of them right now. I'm asking for a little patience yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71588	Dear colleagues. Democracy is a procedure, and sometimes the procedure requires at least minimum patience, so if you can't wait 20 minutes then I really don't understand what you're looking for here, and let me use my five minutes the next way. I'm going to start with something that the Honorable President of the Parliament, dear colleague Jandrokovic spoke a few months ago, a little more than a year after he found out about a decision by the Commission on a conflict of interest that did not sit well with him. The president of the parliament said then, "If we are to interpret the potential conflict of interest extensively, then I fear that no one will be able to deal with anything anymore." And what was that about? It was simply that the independently elected Committee on Conflict of Interest, independently without the influence of politics, made a decision to initiate a procedure that was to determine whether a particular politician, in this case the Deputy Prime Minister, was in conflict of interest. However, such behaviour by the Commission was one of the most common decisions to initiate the HDZ procedure and they reacted exactly as I described it. And that's why he wants us to be here today and why we're going to break the Rules of Procedure to try to vote again, and by a little bit of disciplining the MPs, we're going to get the majority to make this decision. I will not bother the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia with procedures, but I will say only one thing, two weeks ago the Croatian Parliament voted on a proposal that was made, which is that two people should be candidates for the Committee's presidency to decide on a conflict of interest. One of these individuals was rejected by the ruling majority. Why? Because of his previous work on the head of this commission. Another person, regardless of what the ruling majority pushed, and only because there was a secret vote in which some MPs could be brave and express their opinion, did not get a majority. The Croatian Parliament has rejected the proposed candidates. And what's the solution? In all normal situations, the solution would be to establish that the procedure is not completed or that the decision-making process has not ended with the candidate's election and to return back to the Committee for Selection and appointment to decide whether to suspend the procedure or to propose other candidates to the Croatian Parliament. And what does the ruling majority do? He says we'll do it again. And why is that? In the meantime, it was obviously talking to some people, a little twisting hands, a little discipline, a little bit of explaining that an opinion can be changed very easily, and today we come here with a very likely reinforced majority. It's not acceptable for us to behave like that. We're not going to be involved in this criminal procedure. And because of this, I won't be longer I'll say just one thing, the Commission's decision on conflict of interest has in these five years had rises and downs, there were good ones, there were worse ones, there were decisions like this, but one fact, the Commission helped make the Croatian political scene at least a little better, and some of the behaviours that were considered acceptable until yesterday became publicly demonstrated as they are, inadmissible and narcissistic. The commission kept public interest, prevented politicians from putting their private interest ahead of the public, ahead of the one they were chosen to defend. And what's the score? Now we shut him up. I'll do it again, the SDP won't be involved in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71589	Let's move on, the second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and the Honorable Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71590	Mr. President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, unfortunately, we have again before the Croatian Parliament a decision on the decision on the person who has already been the subject of the Croatian Parliament's decision and who has not received the prescribed majority of votes. In the past five years, we have witnessed in discussions to discuss the Commission's report on conflict of interest with an analysis of the work of that body, which was set up five years earlier, which had its first mandate and as a rare which new institution and new body, has shown in practice that it can act independently, impartially and pro-actively in protecting public interest and in preventing conflicts of interest. I really think that I can say freely on behalf of the club, that the institution of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and members of that body, and particularly the president of that body, Mrs. Oreshkovic, had more indivisible sympathy for the public, the media, and that is precisely because she proved very independent, impartial professional work that one institution could lead to a high level. And that is why we expected that, thanks to the votes in this House, the Commission's reports on the conflict of interest decision will be the undivided support of all the clubs of MPs and all representatives of the continuing work of this commission and the president of Mrs. Oreshkovic. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, unfortunately. But we believe in the Most Club that it was a step back because it was a good opportunity for us as a Croatian Parliament to prove to the public that we as officials who were often the subject of the commission's decision were personally one or through the parties, that we can prove that when an independent body decides whether we adhere to public interest and do not violate the principle prescribed by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and that we can objectively and impartially decide that this body is worthy of our trust precisely because it protected public interest. What we unfortunately did not expect happened, which is that the parliamentary majority decided that the president of the commission did not enjoy their trust. And that is why much of the parliamentary majority did not vote for Mrs Oreshkovic. However, the candidate for parliament's majority did not get a sufficient number of votes. In a secret vote that allows each MP to vote on his conscience and another candidate has not received a prescribed majority of the votes of all MPs. And for us at the Club of Representatives of the Most, that story ends. Simply in the vote, no candidate has received an absolute majority. Any repetition of that vote for both candidates or in this case only for one is absolutely unacceptable. What's that supposed to mean? That someone must change the attitude he expressed in the first secret vote. Why would we expect someone to change their attitude? We have no reason. We weren't under duress, we voted in secret. Why expect a change of attitude? We at MOST will not participate in this vote, we appeal to those who did not first vote in favour of the candidate who received 75 votes not to do so now in this secret vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71591	Let's move on. It is now the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU and the Honorable Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71592	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. We at the GLAS and HSU club are not going to participate in this vote, and we're going to say a little bit why. The Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest is the body, where our interest should be to be independent, performs a certain job and we sooner or later already by having to deliver our card we have contact with it. I had contact, too. I've been on several occasions to consider certain reports and certain cases. I was once punished, not guilty, not in debt because the government appointed me to one place that I shouldn't have. However, the commission did its job and it was good that it did it and good that it did it. We should be interested in all of us to develop in democracy, to be better each time, to keep an eye on and what we are doing now. We'll do it next. The choice of candidates is being made. Over 20 candidates have been selected now not to say the wrong number. Among them are several candidates who applied for the post of president, or president of the Committee. The board decided on two candidates and in secret vote, no candidate received the required number of votes. The question is why the board hasn't decided on three candidates. I'm sure today we'd have two candidates or two candidates and we could do the job. This is how we have one candidate, and we're not going to be in on it. But there is one really big difference between a secret and a public vote. You can't hide behind anyone in public and say I did it one way or the other. When it's a secret vote, it can always be hidden. And that's why we're not going to participate, so let the ruling secret vote have enough when the 78 green circles are public vote, so let them show in a secret vote that there really is 78. So that's one thing. But another thing. So, my people, why do we who work here, who's the job of a parliamentary representative, work out of a circus procedure. Let's not work out of a circus procedure, let's not do it for the simple reason it's not good. The Committee for Conflict of Interest should be an independent body, it should do its job, it should really be questioned, and what is the task of the law under which they work is better. What's our job is to get opinions, what's our job to let them do their job. It's starting when you're doing something over your knee or doing something wrong never ends well. So think again, see what you're going to do. But I've been talking all night from this pay phone, think about it, listen to us, give a voice of common sense. But that doesn't touch. I'm sure it won't reach this time either, and we at the GLAS and HSU club won't be involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71593	Okay. And we're going to the last club debate. He lives the wall and the power. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71594	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Today we are witnessing a democratic procedure that is not. We vote for one person to round the name. This is a vote that in some ways reminds us of totalitarian systems, and we have a very unpleasant situation that one candidate precisely because of this indemnity and politicization of the election of a public function gave up on the candidacy. Even after the parliamentary majority unanimously accepted its reports, they also unanimously moved on to committees under HDZ's orders. A decision has been made to carry out revenge because the Committee for Conflict of Interest should not serve to question everything, but rather to be a minor who will be disciplined solely by opposition. It is not allowed to question what the ruling majority is doing. They were deeply disturbed and bothered still because their former party president and Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Karamarko were convicted of conflict of interest. They are deeply bothered that Marija Hrebac, under the supervision of Ministers Maric and Grosdana Peric, was sentenced three times to conflict the interest of the unsuspected director of the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks. They are deeply bothered that the conflict of interest has twice been condemned by Ms. Martina Dalic. They're very upset that Mr. Franjo Lucic was convicted. They're very upset that Mr. Ivica Misic was convicted. They're very upset that Mr. Milan Bandic was convicted. All those who vote against her shift here today, because the only thing that would be allowed would be allowed to condemn Branimir Bunjc, and now to the misfortune of where I am not convicted once. I should not know Goran Aleksic and such, and not the great size of those who must not even be mentioned by the name except to admire them and to celebrate them and to approve them because they think that the world has begun with them and will end with them. This way of voting shall send the following message to the public. Croatian citizens if you think you're going to do your job fairly, you'll be out of that job. You can pack your things and go abroad. This Croatia, our Croatia, HDZ does not need you. We need half-trons, we need listeners and similars, we need a party voting machine that'll nod on its nose like we say. We don't need an educated or intelligent person. We can set up truck drivers to run European projects, to be the library director and everything. All that matters is he's on the party line. That's your message. And now you're going to take the papers nicely and go shame yourself with a vote that didn't work out for the first time, and I'm still calling on the current candidate if she has a bit of cheek to withdraw her candidacy in such conditions. There's 10 minutes left. I hope he's watching this. Here, Mrs. Novakovic, tell me I don't want to be a part of this farce, I'm withdrawing my candidacy, and we're going to go all the way over again. So the Croatian public, therefore, needs to know that HDZ did this solely because it does not want to listen to the truth, does not want to listen to the slightest criticism. It would also be very good to have the name democratic out of the name, so let them be called the Croatian community, because the only opinion that exists in the world that they accept is the opinion of themselves. It is she who has a folk saying praise me my mouth. They will, therefore, be happy when they listen only to praises as the state sinks into ruin, while young people move out, while the poor are being executed and blocked, while GDP slows down, while lex Agrokor is almost ticking as a time bomb along with shipbuilding, along with Croatian highways, along with Croatian health care, with Croatian education and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71595	We can call ourselves the HDZ Croatian Democratic Wall. He can't anymore, it's over. We're exhausted. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71596	Mr. President, since we called for Article 271. The Rules of Procedure which provides for the third round of voting, please only and information if we change our mind and wish to participate in the third round will it be today or next week?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71597	We'll stick to my colleague Bauk's Rules of Procedure. In 45 minutes, we will publish the results and after that we will continue to discuss the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71598	Thank you. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-15-0.u71599	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the vote to elect the President of the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest is over. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.10 HOURS]] I announce that of the 151 MPs, 78 MPs received a ballot for the chairman of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. 78 MPs voted, and there were no invalid ballots. I'm stressing that it's consistent with the article. 31. Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest for the selection of presidents and members of the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest needs most of all MPs 76. President Novakovic Natasa's candidate received 78 votes, and I now declare that she has been elected president of the Commission for Decision on a conflict of interest. I congratulate the elected president and wish her success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty on behalf of all MPs and parliamentary deputies. And those who voted and those who did not. [[intruder doesn't understand]]
