ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89602	We move to the next item of the day's work, which is: - The final proposal of the Law confirming the accession protocol under the Agreement on Trade between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, of the second reading, P.Z. No. 349; Proposer of the Act is Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. and Articles 172 and 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure of Croatia it is prescribed that the laws to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by international contracts are as a rule adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for foreign policy. I would like to ask the State Secretary's representative at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs. Andrej Metelko Zgombic, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89603	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present to you the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the accession protocol under the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of Ecuador. The Protocol was signed on 11 November 2016 and has been joined by Ecuador on the Trade Agreement signed by the EU and its Member States on 26 October 2012 with Colombia and Peru. The protocol itself is to mix international agreements by signing all EU member states and the EU itself as well as other countries, Colombia, Peru and Ecuador. It is precisely because it has been signed by the EU Member States for its entry into force that the certification procedure should be carried out in the national parliaments of all Member States. So far, 14 Member States have confirmed this protocol. Until the entry into force of the Protocol, it is agreed that the Protocol shall be applied provisionally in certain segments when it comes to trade from 1 January 2017. The accession of Ecuador to a trade agreement that is balanced, ambitious, comprehensive and compatible with the legal rules of the world trade organisation strengthens the legal framework for trade relations between the EU and the Member States, as well as for the Republic of Croatia with Ecuador, and facilitates mutual trade and investment. The Protocol aims at removing high customs duties, removing technical barriers, trade, market liberalisation, protection of products of geographical indications, market procurement and others. Ecuador represents an important EU trade partner and the main objective of the protocol is to provide new opportunities for economies to strengthen trade and economic ties. For Croatian businessmen who make a modest trade of 15.9m euros with Ecuador, higher exports of Croatian products to Ecuador with lower customs duties and easier market access are expected to facilitate and strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. In order to implement this contract, i.e. the law does not require the provision of additional financial resources and the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that this high home be adopted by that law. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89604	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for this further explanation of the bill. We have one replica, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89605	Respected secretary of state. Here's just one question specifically, what does Croatia have from this agreement? Or what kind of Croatian entrepreneurs trade with Ecuador? Ecuador is one likable country of the tropical belt, our antipod geographically, but I'm curious about what we have from this agreement? Or do we just have that nothing costs us our time?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89606	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. The answer to a respected secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89607	I thank you for this question. Here from the Republic of Croatia, electricity and measuring instruments are exported to Ecuador. So we have one niche, we have one segment of our economy that finds its market right there. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89608	I thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Here you go, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, here you go, Mr. Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89609	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its session, held on June 31st this year the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. During the debate, it was pointed out that the said Protocol opens up a space for greater exports of Croatian products to Ecuador with lower customs duties and is easier to access the market, which will also strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, which is of great importance for Croatian businessmen who, with Ecuador, want to make a significant trade trade, considering the final proposal of the Law on the approval of the EU Trade Agreement and its countries on the one hand, and Colombia and Peru, on the other hand, in order to take the accession of Ecuador to the EU, the Committee on Foreign Policy has decided unanimously to propose to the Croatian Assembly of the adoption of this law after the discussion. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89610	I thank the Honorable President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mr Mira Kovac. I am opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89611	Good morning, everyone. I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is not much to say about this agreement itself, however, as my predecessors have said, there is a possibility for our companies, and at least this 200,000 euros we export to Ecuador to increase not only in those countries, it is not much, of 16 million trades, a little less than that seems to me, 15.9 million, only 200,000 euros is our exports, but it depends on our entrepreneurs whether and how we can use a little more of this new space of course with the support of our government and administration above all, the MVEP. But since I have my word, then I'm going to say a few sentences about all of Latin America. I think that in this Latin America, given the number of Croatian emigrants who live there, and many of them entrepreneurs, space is much bigger than we are currently realising and importing and exporting, so there are some countries like Chile where Croatian emigrants are the richest, so they manage the good part of the economy, with these and similar Latin American countries, the EU has agreements from before or negotiations or renegotiation seems to me with Mexico, so I'm talking about really great potential, in the end line of potential, the entire Latin America represents the demographic potential of North America, so in that sense we shouldn't look at Latin America and foreign-political and commercial. And let me have one more sentence to tell you about the agreements themselves. So we don't know which direction global trade will go in general, given what is currently going on in Washington and the United States, given the new trade agreements. For the time being, as we see from this, the EU is still heading towards reducing customs around the world, in this case the countries of Latin America. However, as we will not determine the world's rules of trade, what we can and must do, we must be more competitive, we must be faster, we must be more flexible because competition is evident so from this, for ours it seems, an irrelevant agreement will grow. It's the only thing that's safe. For now as it looks for us within the EU and when we look at such agreements, what is inevitable is that we should be ready for greater and stronger competition, so far here have the past 5 years of EU membership of Croatian entrepreneurs shown that they can use it, so our and the goods exports of services are growing, which is crucial for our economy, and I am sure that, with the support of the state and the entire administration, we can continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89612	I thank my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89613	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have heard from the secretary of state but from fellow Milosevic who are the advantages of concluding such a trade agreement, and as we know, the conclusion of such agreements is within the competence of the EU not the Member States, the Member States in their parliaments confirm these trade agreements and the EU is thus positioning and contributing to the maintenance of a multilateral world order, a rule of law order, respecting international law. But I would also use this debate to point out that 5 years ago we entered the EU and that this EU was the fundamental goal of every Croatian state government after 1990. We were able to establish the necessary consensus in Croatian politics and we have recently heard a frequent call for President Tudjman's accession speech in the 1990s Parliament, and I remember that the third point, the third goal of the then elected Croatian government was Europeanisation and Croatia's involvement in the European community. The first point seemed to me, the adoption of the new Constitution, the second point of a new regulation of relations within the then state union of the SFRY of Yugoslavia. So, from the beginning, we have been aiming at creating a free democratic independent Croatia, and in parallel, we have aimed at joining that Croatia in the community then, we have later joined the EU. Who did we ask for a confession from? Our goal was then, a very large goal for the Croatian state government to get the recognition of the European community. And that is where Germany has proven itself especially because it fought most within the European community for Croatia to be recognised. This was our first major foreign political goal to be recognised by the EC member states, at the time of January 12th, 15th 1992. We managed to enter the EU 5 years ago after the severe pain of aggression against Croatia, following the release of occupied areas, peaceful integration. It was a difficult battle, there were a lot of forces in the EU that wanted us not to join the EU alone then, there were attempts to stay in the Western Balkan package and today we are still waiting in the camp, under quotes, in the waiting room for us to join the EU. Just before the negotiations were closed, ideas emerged at the end of June 2011 that a clause on the possibility of delaying Croatia's membership in the EU should be put in place. So it was complicated, but we managed to get through it. Why do I say that? Because we have today in the Republic of Croatia, but also a broader EU of skepticism that can be understood, which can be rationalised, but we must all here who are in this Croatian House of Representatives, but also more widely accept that this is our responsibility in the first place because these advantages of EU membership have not yet reached most Croatian citizens enough, as shown in polls we have recently seen on Croatian TV stations. So it is up to us, especially those of us today who have the honour of making the ruling majority, to be so politically trained that we are able to effectively manage the processes in our country and that we are really beginning to feel in Croatia the benefits of EU membership. So the situation is that it depends on us the most. The times have passed when we could call on Belgrade, before that on Pest and on Vienna, so it is up to us here in Croatia that what is positive in the EU, that we really start and feel it. I am convinced that we will succeed, as I am convinced that the EU as such will survive regardless of this difficult situation that is currently happening in the heart of the EU, particularly in Germany when it comes to the division in the ruling coalition, specifically among our partners in the CDU and CSU will find a solution because the migrant crisis shows that we are a community in which we are bound by fate. So, any move being made in one of the EU countries, for example, The migration crisis, the move is felt in other EU Member States, so that we are a community, we are fatefully bound to each other, which we seem to be in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there is also a phenomenon that has been discussed by colleagues from the Parliament when it comes to migration, but especially by internal migration, I mean the departure of many people from the Republic of Croatia, but not just from the Republic of Croatia and other EU member states that are heading towards the old Western Europe. I am convinced that we will have to open a dialogue with our colleagues in the EU in the long term on how to prevent the population from spilling west at the expense of our countries. But, I repeat, we are the ones who are responsible for our destiny and we are the ones who have the chance, we have the obligation to turn Croatia into a long-term competitive and advanced society. It's not Brussels, it's not Strasbourg, it's not Luxembourg, we're the ones who are responsible and I believe we'll succeed in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89614	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Kovac, for this debate. Although you have extended this debate to a slightly wider EU context and relations and processes, but good. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89615	Dear Vice-President, as far as I know, the item of the agenda is the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Accession to the Trade Agreement between the EU and its members on the one hand, Colombia and Peru, on the other hand, in order to make it possible to join means, Ecuador. My colleague Kovac didn't speak of it at all. Injury. 238, century 1, speak of a subject that is not subject to discussion. All the time he's been talking about the EU crisis, the migrant crisis, the situation in Germany, he's been on Friday... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89616	Comrade Thunderbolt, your time is up. Thank you. I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you've abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you've failed to comply with the prescribed time. I give you a reminder based on an article. 239. We're moving on. Since there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Oh, I'm sorry, we have a replica. Okay, excuse me. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89617	Dear President of the Parliament. We're talking about Ecuador, that's right. But that's how we talked about the EU, exclusively as some kind of economic integration. I don't think the Croats will be in Ecuador tomorrow, but I have a feeling that we have entered the EU, not on equal relations, but on unfair relations. Then the fact that we are today, and I will repeat what I just said from the pay phone, we pay our membership in the Union with 80,000 people a year. I think it's one price no nation can pay. I am not the one to get out of the EU, but I believe that we have entered the EU, obviously unfairly, and that we are still unequal. And it's important to emphasize 80,000 people a year, that's the price we pay for EU membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89618	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. A fellow blacksmith. Thank you very much. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89619	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I think signing this trade agreement and joining Ecuador Colombia and Peru is good. On the Committee on Foreign Policy, we heard from Assistant Minister Ujević that 4,000 Croats and their descendants live in Ecuador, so I think Ecuador's trade agreement is known for its fleet of ships, which also deals with agriculture and fisheries. And I think the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs can also serve to sign this trade agreement to strengthen relations with Croats living in Ecuador.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89620	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. This is what I'm closing the debate with right now. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I thank the State Secretary of the Foreign Ministry, Mrs. Andreja Metelko Zgombic, and the head of the sector, Ms. Irene Alajbek, for the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89621	The final proposal of the Act confirming the accession protocol with the Agreement on Trade between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador, the second reading, P.Z. No. The motion for an act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that law, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 102 for the adoption of the Protocol on Accession to the Agreement on Trade between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89622	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, second reading, P.Z. No. 285 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the second reading of the law, shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, based on Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I call on the proposing representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, Mrs Majda Buric, to give an additional explanation of the bill. We have a respected colleague named Pejo Grbin before us, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89623	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP representative club in the Croatian Parliament would be related to this item of the agenda under Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament asked for a break, and I ask you to grant me two minutes to explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89625	I've been waiting to see who, on behalf of the government, will come to present this law. And I have to say that I wasn't surprised, which after all the opportunities we had to listen and read last week, the minister is not here today. So last week, the minister made public proposals for pension, comprehensive pension reform, which is directly related to what we are going to discuss here today. And the minimum, which we have as an opposition, and I believe Croatian citizens are expecting right now, is for the minister to come here before us and answer questions that would certainly have to ask him. However, the minister does not. And we have another problem here except the minister doesn't have one. We have announced a comprehensive pension reform, which directly thins pension funds, and we here today as if nothing is happening, we need to discuss how we are going to change the Pension Funds Act. Why? To change it again in September or October. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is totally unacceptable and that is why we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP are asking to determine a 30-minute break, as we are sure that the minister can come from any part of Zagreb, where I hope he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89626	I'd like to thank my colleague, Peggy Grbino. Here we give the minister 13 minutes, set a break by 10:30. It's 10:00, 15 o'clock. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS Oh, my God, Petrov, here you go. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89628	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. I would sincerely ask for a break on behalf of the Most Independent Lists for the reason that here I cannot believe that given such a large topic, we are looking for consultations with our colleagues at the club if we will at all participate in the debate because it is the pension funds as said by HDZ's representative to one of the most important topics, with the minister saying the same thing, according to HDZ's representative or representative of the ruling majority of the imaginary reform, which is quite accurate. I don't want to call the minister imaginary, but he's obviously imaginary as soon as he sends a secretary of state on such an important subject. I'm really asking you, given the importance of the subject, do you want the Minister's call, do you have the authority or not? Will this play actually make it a serious debate or will we continue it with the circus any way you want? But I'm asking you for a minimum of ten minutes to consult with my colleagues whether or not we're going to participate in a show like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89629	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrov. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm setting a break by 10.45. It's 10:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89631	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you nicely to take a break on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU for half an hour. We are otherwise of the view that the Government and Parliament must cooperate well, that everything that is related to the work of both the Government and the Parliament is both important and significant. And we would therefore like to give the minister a chance to come to the Parliament, to have the opportunity to present these amendments and the additions to the law. And since it's been a tumultuous night for Croatia, I'm guessing the minister may be a little later on with his work duties so he has a chance to come. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its Rules of Procedure, let's give the minister a chance to come and talk, please take a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89632	Thank you very much to my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Do we have anyone else? We don't. I'm setting a break by 11:00. MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] Dear colleague, Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89634	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, please rest for the reason I believe that on the subject of reform of the pension system, there should be a minister present here. And I think that this kind of work is actually unserious, which is more of a very, very important issue regarding the existence of all future pensioners. There you go. Thank you. I'm looking for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89635	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I'm setting a break by 11:15. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.05 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89636	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:15 A.M.]] Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, respectable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Majda Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89637	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the final draft law amending and supplementing the Mandatory Pension Funds Act is proposed after four years of application of this law. During that time, certain ambiguities were seen in application as well as the need to improve and supplement in terms of harmonisation here, in terms of compliance with other regulations governing the business of control entities such as the Open Investment Funds Act with the public offering, the Alternative Investment Funds Act and the Credit Institutions Act, as well as the legal property of the EU. The final proposal for a law has taken over the appropriate terminology relating to the operations of supervisory entities in the mandatory capitalised system. That's what this is about. EMIR Regulation, i.e. number 537/2014. For the purpose of harmonising with the terminology set out in the Credit Institutions Act and other fund laws, the notion of capital is changed to regulatory capital and is also eliminated by the term qualified in the acquisition of shares in a pension society since this final proposal does not provide for the acquisition of a qualifying share in a pension society but is already given to the regulator the approval of any transaction to the shares or business shares of a pension company and all due to their specific position in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is possible for a pension society to acquire a share in another pension society irrespective of whether it is a company managed by a compulsory or voluntary pension fund and whether that company is based in the Republic of Croatia, in another EU Member State or in a third country. This also enables Croatian pension societies to freedom of entrepreneurship and to expand and strengthen their position. In doing so, there are two control mechanisms which should be further highlighted, the first of course is the approval of HANFA and the second is not to acquire shares in companies that are in any kind of problem. In addition, it is proposed that the application for approval for the performance of a member of the pension society management system, the HANFA submits to the members of the pension society or the supervisory board of the pension society for a term of office not longer than 5 years. Within the risk management system, this final proposal establishes a comprehensive and effective process of assessing the creditworthiness of the issuer in which the pension society intends to invest or invest its assets and assets with the aim not to automatically or exclusively rely on the credit ratings granted by the credit rating agencies and thus the existing system of business of pension societies and pension funds should be further regulated in accordance with market developments and experience of the financial crisis with the aim of improving the quality of investment of pension funds and risk management. The final proposal provides for the obligation of the auditor of the pension society and the auditor of the pension fund to report any breach of the provisions of the regulations laid down in the performance of the statutory audit and also with a view to improving supervision of the legality of the business of pension societies and pension funds the introduction of an additional participant within the supervision system. More specifically, the auditor is obliged to submit to the depositary without delay the audit report on the execution of the depositary's obligations and that the depositary is also obliged to deliver the HANFA no later than 4 months later. after the end of the financial year for which the report is drawn up. Also using so-called The EMIR Regulation, which I have just mentioned, is prescribed that the costs related to the intervention in the conduct of transactions are considered to be costs that can be directly paid from the assets of the pension fund and the notion of indicators of the total costs to achieve transparency and simplicity of showing the costs that can be borne by the pension fund with a view to giving members a more complete picture of the way the pension fund is available. At the end of the bill, newly employed insurance companies who do not choose a mandatory pension fund on their own, a previous period of 6 months. for the selection of the pension fund, it shall be reduced to 1 m. After which the REGOS shall assign them to one of the B-category pension funds under official duty. This is because statistical indicators show that in the previous period, most of the insurance companies, and even more than 95% who did not choose their pension fund on their own, deployed by official duty and, in that case, the funds of the contributions burden the temporary account of the REGOS for a long time. Furthermore, this amendment will allow for better information from new employees on the need for the personal selection of the fund by prescribing that the REGOS in the notice of the new insurance company to a clear, simple, unambiguous and secure language, describes the types of funds that the insurance company can choose from these essential features, insurance rights and where more detailed information can be obtained on a particular type of pension fund and pension society. It is also proposed to amend the applicable law to allow the holding of the pension fund's money and other credit institutions' accounts, which is a much wider definition than to the present one, which significantly reduces the systemic risk observed. The final draft of the Law regulates the investment policy of pension funds, which is expected to improve the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system, and thus is expected to benefit all members of compulsory pension funds, for example in terms of improving the quality of the investment of pension funds or their members. The final proposal of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds allows the issuer of transferable debt securities or bonds and money market instruments to be a public international body such as the EBRD or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which belongs to most EU members, and the proposed amendments to the Law end the limit on which a single pension fund can obtain a maximum of 10% of one issue of bonds and, for example, the EBRD, or that pension funds managed by the same pension society can jointly acquire a maximum of 15% of one issue of bonds. The peace funds managed by the same pension society provide a slightly larger investment limit. So far it has been 20%, now it has increased to up to 25% of all funds managed by the same society compared to the individual fund under management, and it is new that the pension fund category C is made available, but it is exceptional that it can invest a maximum of 20% of the pension fund's pension fund in the account and not more than 14 days. The exception had previously been provided only for category A and B funds, and now it extends to the category C fund. Furthermore, the circumstance that the 3 month deadline is not always suitable for harmonising the over-investment of the issuer's financial instruments over which the pre-demand settlement procedure is initiated, and therefore the final proposal for this Act provides for further extension of that period and for more than 3 months, which determines the HANFA. It is also proposed that no longer any change in the pension fund statutes should be granted but only one considered important and modelled by such changes in the prospectus of investment funds, which aims to reduce the administrative and regulatory burden of pension societies and funds. The final proposal of this Act also affects the improvement of transparency regarding the supervisory measures imposed by introducing the possibility for HANFA to publicly publish data on the supervisory measures imposed on its websites. Also, it should be said to be in art. 1st under the wheel. 29. defines that the audit can only be carried out by an audit firm, but not by an independent authorised auditor. A new article is also proposed. 13th to amend the provisions of the award policy. For the purpose of just increasing the transparency of the business of pension societies, but also informing the members of compulsory pension funds, pension societies are obliged to publish in annual financial reports the dismembered, in particular all receipts of workers whose work can have a material impact on the risk profile of the pension society or pension fund, and in particular the receipts of higher management and workers that affect the taking of risks. So far, pension companies have been obliged to publish only data on paid bonuses and prizes in annual financial reports. Also, a new article has been proposed. 19th Regulation governing the transition of a member of the pension fund, but only to the pension fund of the same category managed by another pension society and to the new Article. 20. A change in the category of pension fund within the same pension society is defined once a year, only in the calendar month in which that member of the pension fund was born, allowing for a transition over a shorter period of time. So far, a member of the pension fund could only change the category of the fund when it fills the years of life that are multiple number 3 in the calendar month in which he was born. In addition, the documentation managed by the pension fund must also be provided to HANFA after the investment has been made. Art. 26. is the one who is nomotechnically regulating the provisions in accordance with the observations of the Committee on Lawmaking of the Croatian Parliament. The new Article 34 proposes to extend the regulatory framework for the selection of depositaries. Therefore, due to the emergence and strengthening of competition in the conduct of depositary operations which will potentially lead to an increase in quality, but also a reduction in service price, it is possible that pension funds depositary be other credit institutions that are not related to the pension society, so they are not members of the same group. This proposal also takes into account the fact that due to the concentration on the banking market in the Republic of Croatia, the number of banks that can carry out the depositary’s business is significantly reduced, as you know, by Adico Bank and the Split Bank and OTP Bank, respectively, and according to this proposal, 13 banks can carry out the operations of depositaries. In total, around 22 million kuna were paid by the depositary in 2016. In addition, the proposed articles of 40-45 relating to art. The current Law amends some of the infringement provisions by adding new easier and seeking violations, in order to align the conduct of the same infringements of the same entities within the entire fund industry in the Republic of Croatia, it should in fact be noted here that only items are recorded in articles and here in accordance with the instructions of the Ministry of Justice and the amounts have not been changed. The proposed amendment shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. In 46, it is actually a nomotechnic, too, which was a proposal from the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament and following all of this, the adoption of this law, will allow for further strengthening, protection of members of mandatory pension funds. But also easier to exercise some of their rights, as well as to promote and preserve trust in the capital market. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes that the Croatian Parliament also accept the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89638	Thank you. There's quite a number of replicas on your display. Almost everyone who was here at that time answered. Let's start in a row, the first respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89639	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we're talking about pension funds, and the key thing you didn't mention is that Minister Pavić announced a few days ago that pension funds as such will no longer exist, or that this second pillar you're talking about is actually losing its meaning. And what's crucial is when we talk about peace funds, it's about pensions. And here, we haven't heard now, perhaps some projection, will Croatian citizens have any pensions at all? If he's gonna have it, what's it gonna be? And what's key, who's going to pay those pensions? I think we're building a roof house here, not a foundation. First we should work on a demographic recovery, that we have these people who will tomorrow be potential employees, employees and who will eventually be able to invest in the pension system. If we don't have them, I don't think this law, which you've explained nicely, actually doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89640	Thank you for answering the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89641	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic, I don't think it's good to spread disinformation. It is not true, what you said, namely, Minister Marko Pavić was just communicating on the strengthening of pension funds, i.e. their positions on the capital market, and he also communicated a proposal to increase the contribution to the second pension pillar of individual capitalised savings. If you've followed well, his public exposure, then you know very well that he's been communicating until 2022 to increase the contribution to 6%. So I don't think it's good to scare and scare the Croatian public with misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89642	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. Of course, this debate must be marked by the very reform he announced, almost incredible to me, probably because of lack of political experience, Minister Pavic, Prime Minister Plenkovic pushed him to burn. Because now, to announce to Croatian citizens that they will take 90 billion of their kunas, which they have been saving, now for 16, 17 years, so who can, who can. And of course, that today's debate takes place with the intention that as little as possible, our citizens hear what is happening here, given the grand success of our team. You hid the theft bigger than the privatisation and for yesterday's magnificent victory of our representatives. And it's funny and it's a shame there's no Minister Pavic here who's hidden and not wants to go before the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens to explain how they want to take billions of kuna. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89644	I ask you nicely, knowingly violate the Rules of Procedure, that you do not give me Christian sentences when you have one minute until the end. Please, please, sir, honorary secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89645	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr Maras, I will join your congratulations on the grand victory of the Croatian team and return to the topic. So, as you know yourself, and you know, this law, it was in the first reading in February of this year. Then I didn't get the impression that we were talking about anything but technical harmonisation and directives. You know very well, the National Reform Plan for 2018, I know that you are directed to, that the reform laws, the reform laws package, as Minister Pavić himself announced, are moving into the government's procedure on September 6th. Until then, there is plenty of time for both public debate and consultation and for all the initial proposals of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, HZMO, REGOS, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89646	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89647	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. You said that this law, it tries to get close to the citizens, so it uses a clear and understandable language. Well, I'm interested in the fact that 100,000 Croatian citizens don't have any pensions, and 2,000 of them have a pension of less than 1000 kn. Can you give me more clear and understandable advice, how to survive the month with these amounts, and what the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and your Minister Pavić specifically does to enable these people to live a decent life in age. Because let's just say, I'm really interested in how someone who has a don't know, a pension of 700, 800 kn can pay directors, eat, heal, lead a cultural life, travel, spend a summer, anything that makes a man feel human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89648	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89649	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Bunjac. I know best how a pensioner with a very, very low pension survives the month because I have a mother who lives and lives with such a pension. However, we will not now consider personal examples as a general picture. When we talk about the structure of the pensioners or their incomes, then what you need to know, and last time I referred you to a review of the basic data on the state of the pension insurance system, and I will remind you, and now that every time we talk about pensions, it's a good look at the part and no international contracts, because when we exclude it, it's those people who worked in Croatia for a while, and then they went to another country and got a pension, and those pensions are on average from the Croatian part of achieving an internship of about 750 or 780 kuna. When international contracts are excluded [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89650	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89651	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. I suggest you withdraw this proposal of the fall law, for September because you see the largest number of members of the Parliament do not understand the pension system, and you can imagine how many citizens do not understand. It's about one system that was introduced not transparently, not democratically under duress, and now it's trying to make some points for one party on the other. I propose to the Parliament's presidency to call a plenary session for a parliamentary debate, to invite experts to hear what's going on. But what's interesting is, don't make changes now like you do for technical reasons, and you announce essential changes, so make sure you make all these changes. What is important is that Prime Minister and Minister Pavic admitted that there is no money, that every month there is a billion and a half kuna to which the budget must be charged, this system is unsustainable, we need to tell the citizens the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89652	Thank you. The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89653	Dear Professor Lovrinovic. I'm looking at the first-reading record here, and I don't see it, and you can correct me if I'm wrong about your participation in the first-reading debate. So you yourself know that this law primarily refers to compliance with some other laws in the Republic of Croatia as well as the EU acquis. And besides, I think it's important to say this, we've seen the problem, this is a government that doesn't close its eyes to problems and without reform, and you know it as an expert as a politician that without reform our pension system is not sustainable in the long term. That is why this government, or the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System, has set out to make initial proposals aimed at precisely the adequateness of pensions and the long-term long-termness of the Croatian pension system. You know very well that the current relationship of workers to pensioners in the Republic of Croatia is 1:1,23.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89654	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State. So what we have in Croatia today is an attempt at the unprecedented robbery of our pensioners, the second in 25 years by HDZ and the attempted robbery of translations, the minister who was born in '79. I wonder if you'd suggest this kind of reform if he was born before '63. A year. On the other hand, you have something on the ground that is experienced by our pensioners who are now going to retire, which is to be valued by the pension fund when they leave, says they will have a bigger pension if they give up money from the second pillar. So you haven't even implemented a field reform yet, but now you're blackmailing people who are going to retire this year and trying to take away the money they've been saving for years. I'm sorry my colleague Shuker can't answer, so he suggests what to say, but I hope you'll start working and start finding solutions for Croatian pensioners constructive, not how to take away the money they've been saving for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89656	Thank you. A colleague, Djujic, is obviously contagious. Don't overdo things so special. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89657	Your Honors, Mr. Jujits. So here's what my colleague Schucker suggested you read the materials, read the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. And since you have doubts, doubts, and I see that you are not well-versed, I have a need to explain the situation to you. So what is the initial proposal of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system is to make it possible to choose at the time of retirement. And for all the additional information since I see that my time is leaking and doesn't fit in one minute, here I am really available to explain to you the possibility of choosing a pension payment at the time of retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89658	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Before my colleague Maras injured the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89659	Thank you very much. Comrade Vice President, you have injured Rules of Procedure Article 227. It is the conduct of a session. It is not intended to match the replica from the bench representative, what is now said by counterpart Buric that Mr. Shuker whispered what to say to Mr. Djujic, therefore it is not intended for the government representative to respond in this way to our MPs' reply, so I ask you to take care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89660	I'm certainly taking care of all of this, and I've allowed the secretary of state to take too much of your time, which is why I didn't give you any notice. Therefore, precisely because I've allowed both of you. Now we will give a word for the replica to the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89661	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I'd just go back on the subject a little bit, just a few technical things to explain about getting a share in other funds if they're limited. And when you were also talking about opening the depositary market, so 13 possible banks instead of two, are there any meanings, or credit institutions where pension companies' money can be stored, are there any restrictions on that or can it be all with one depositary or are there restrictions on that side, you know why I'm asking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89662	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89663	Thank you, dear and esteemed colleague Curai. Therefore, in addition to Article 27, it should be noted that, in addition to the possibility of a pension society to acquire shares in other pension societies, this article is in fact subject to the conditions for such acquisitions for which the Agency, i.e. as a regulator, must grant prior approval. And Article 125, then, specifically counted the assets in which pension funds may be invested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89664	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89665	It is regrettable that the secretary of state did not do well to come here after the announcements we had had the opportunity to hear in the media and the great fear that prevailed with Croatian citizens whether they would have any pensions and the fact that they intended to take what is theirs. It should be made clear here that there is no adequate pension system without fostering the economy, discharging entrepreneurs, without demographic recovery and without reforming public administration. But there's nothing we can hear about it from the government. And what's a big problem and this is what my colleague Petrov was talking about this morning is pension fund charges. The attractiveness of these fees and the composure of their business positions is best told by the fact that the contribution to Raiffeisen's capital is as much as 53% a year. So in other words, we have one problem and nothing in this matter is done by the government or suggested anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89666	Dear Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89667	Dear Mr. Grmoya, you were talking about fear and panic, I don't think it's a good idea for you to spread fear and panic among the gentlest groups of people like our pensioners. I think you should talk very seriously about such serious and sensitive things, so I urge you not to spread fear and panic, I think it's very bad. You mentioned an increase in insurance, an increase in the number of employees. Yes, in the term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, the number of employees compared to the previous year increased by 70 thousand, which is of course extremely important for the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of insurance companies with a tendency to continue working, and in addition, the fees you mentioned, and that is one element that we will discuss within the reform package of measures I have already announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89668	Thank you. A colleague of the Grmoi has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. What is the injured Rules of Procedure and what point?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89669	In breach of Rules of Procedure 238, the State Secretary is talking about me scaring the public. The public is alone without this act of mine scared with these announcements they were. On the other hand, the secretary of state is talking about how she has her own mother who's retired, but other pensioners don't have a State Secretary's daughter and people are concerned with the right and don't talk here about me scaring someone. And those stories that the government of Andrej Plenkovic increased employment, it only increased the flow of young people into foreign countries, which is the only thing this government has done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89670	Comrade Grmoy, thank you very much, you are aware that you have abused the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, do not do this, of course not hurt the Rules of Procedure, but do not do so. You see, I'm, uh, I'm benevolent this morning, but maybe my threshold will be a little bit crossed at some point. Now the replica will have an honorary representative of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89671	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. You're in a very awkward situation, the minister let you go, left you, put you in front of us, and it's logical to ask certain questions. And I have no matter what I refer to the fact, we can't scare anyone as much as the minister can. And the minister has already done so with his statements and his intention to address the problem he has in the budget from the second degree. The question is when someone will decide and say, someone, you know who is in power, all those who have a savings greater than 10,000 euros will say we'll take it a little because we need it a little bit. It's just not good. My essential question regarding this amendment and the addition of the law is why you are going with it now if the minister announced a fall reform, it may be incomparable to go with the whole reform, because of course all discussions and everything will be focused on what we have had the opportunity to hear and see in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89672	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89673	I thank you for your esteemed and esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash. Neither did the minister leave me nor did I feel uncomfortable here, however, very comfortable being here in the Croatian Parliament. Since you were also at first reading, I really didn't see any problem that any of you were anticipating in the first reading of this law. So I understand your imaginary fears, however, about the pension reform that you mention yourself, we will have opportunities to discuss publicly throughout 2018. You also know that it has been announced that the reform package of the law comes into force since 1.1.2019, there will be opportunities indeed for a comprehensive and very, very detailed debate regarding all the initial proposals and here it is, I believe that you will participate in all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89674	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89675	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, your opening statement with may actually come to three points. One is strengthening control and greater transparency of the system, the other is much more important and more important role of HANFA and the third is that this is all done for the simple reason that we are aware that these funds control 100 billion Croatian citizens' money and that Croatian citizens simply have to be sure that nobody can take it from them, that they are well managed, and that is the meaning of this law. Perhaps in the absence of an explanation of this law, there is no need for this to change in the 2014 law. Those who are the highest in the world today to take someone's money, that's when it's from II. The pension rate of a billion and 600 million kuna and another thing, some opportunities have been given to compulsory pension funds that make this law and the third thing, this law is also passed so that compulsory pension funds, therefore, can be invested in the shares of other pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89676	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89677	Thank you, esteemed and esteemed colleague Shucker. Yes, you're right, the property of the pension funds on 31 April of this year amounted to 93.7 billion kuna, and it is truly assumed that this year that this number will cross 100 billion kuna, which is just another proof that it should continue to be strengthened by II. The pillar, strengthen it and thus strengthen the position of mandatory pension funds on the capital market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89678	Thank you very much. We now have a request for a break from the HSS club on behalf of which the respected representative Beljak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Assembly Representatives Club, I'm looking for a break to consult on this unprecedented situation, so we're about to have an affair as difficult as the lady said, 100 billion kuna, so those Borgs are little children for what's going on and the minister isn't here. My colleague Buric said he didn't leave her. Yeah, he left you. You've been left by the minister, I can hardly understand him, but he left you in the wind to fight neither guilty nor duty and to defend one crazy idea. It may not be crazy for the minister who came up with the idea, but it is that the state is bankrupt and that with those 100 billion fictitious or non-fictious they intend to fix the balances in order to get the conditions of re-indebted. You'd ask the minister if he were here today, how much more is Croatia due? Until a few years ago, we were talking about 40, 50, 60, 70 billion euros or foreign or total debt, today no one is talking about it anymore. I can assume, I don't know, of course, the facts, but the assumption not only of me but of most Croatian citizens is that Croatia is bankrupt. Minister Pavić tends to go where he has the money, because you spent that money a long time ago, and unfortunately, he left you neither guilty nor debt there to fight and to defend what is indefensible. We'll talk about it, yes, you'll have a chance to explain, but I'm sure and judging by everything you can hear, there are also certain experts from your ranks, honor and glory for them, because there are honest people with you, too, who stopped at the ball and began to warn Mr. Pavic that this is not the way it is done. He turned his tail under his feet, he left, and we will ask him to return, not to repeat you, nor to leave the guilty or the debt here at the mercy of fellow MPs like me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89680	Thank you. Of course I'll let your club discuss this in detail, so we'll see in 12 and 5 minutes. It's 11:00.55. CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS Point. [[Start of speech not recorded.]] Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first to speak on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representative Branimir Bunjac on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89682	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretaries with co-workers, today we are talking about mandatory pension funds, a very important topic that has been rolling especially in recent days due to the announcement of pension reform and the first thing we must express regret is that it is not Minister Pavic here. That reminds me of the situation as if yesterday at the game there were no Dalic menus by the field, but here, we can often experience it in the Parliament. I must honestly say that, apart from Secretary of State Buric here, I have never seen a minister sit and defend the laws he sends to this high-level legislature. Given these announcements of pension reform, I have to admit for a moment it seemed to me that the Ministry of Labour and the pension system had come to their senses and realized that the second pension column was a mandatory pension column, an unremembered failure that caused huge damage to the state. However, we see that shortly after just a few days, and just after a statement here, state secretary Buric returned to the nebuloses of the programme crediblely and now not only say that the mandatory pillars are good, but even say they will increase the isolation in them. So, we haven't had enough damage to date, but in the future we'll do even more damage. It's really amazing. What's the matter with those mandatory retirement pillars? The dispute is that the Croatian state has given banks up to this point at 90 billion kuna, 90 billion kuna, the state has given up in favour of banks through so-called banks. The funds are available to these funds as they wish, which is exclusively for their own benefit without any risk, and everything covered by the alleged savings of citizens who naively think that they earn something in the second pillar, that these funds are hereditary and that their pensions in the future will be more than they are now. It's just all false. The truth is actually quite the opposite. The introduction of mandatory pension pillars has robbed the Croatian state, and worse still, Croatian citizens and future pensioners have been stolen. All of us who are paying into the second pillar or those who have been paying in the future will have fewer pensions than if the money had gone to the first pillar. And that's the basic thing to tell citizens and I are really surprised that in this House all morning we've been listening to the parrot's repetition of the title from some portals, of course under the direct supervision of the banks, who say that like this state thinks to steal their citizens. So, this is an incredibly successful spin bank that managed to convince a good part of the public through, of course, controlled media that they are friends to Croatian citizens and that their enemy is their own state. It's really a great success and I'm on it a lot, but I'm surprised at the naiveness of the MPs I want to believe that what they're doing, they're doing unconsciously, they're working out of ignorance, even though it's a much more realistic option to do it consciously because they're basically with these same banks in cahoots. Since these mandatory pension funds were introduced in 2002, as a consequence we had the condition that the state could no longer pay pensions and could not pay pensions, since 25% of pensions had given up and handed them over to banks, the state had to be in debt. And from that moment on, there was an explosion of public debt that is currently about 90% of GDP. Also, because there was a public debt explosion, there was an increase in taxes, primarily VAT. They're a little older to remember it's 2002. The VAT was 22%, and now VAT is 25%. The credit rating of the state dropped, the interest on loans remained much higher than in the rest of the EU, and worst of all, thanks to mandatory pension funds, jobs have closed, and young people have moved out. The point is that citizens know the following, which is that a citizen who has a salary of $3,000 and who will be saving in the second pillar, will receive a pension of only 300 kuna from the second pillar. 300 kuna! And who has a salary of 7500 kuna will have a pension of 900 kuna. Of those citizens who could choose between the first pillar and the second pillar, 99.9% of citizens chose to take a pension from the I pillar, 99.9%. Is there greater evidence of the failure of the pension fund's liabilities than that? It is simple, we could almost say an absolute figure, and the only ones who took pensions from the second pillar are rich people, people who have salaries net 12, 15, and thousands of kunas, and here we know that it is up to 3% of the Croatian population, and probably less. And that was the goal of so-called. pension reforms. The aim of the pension reform was to reduce pensions for citizens, and to increase both salaries and pensions for bankers and for a very narrow circle of politicians. That was the goal. So citizens don't buy the stories that you from the second pillar, either today, or 20 years from now, will have a higher pension than she stayed in the first column. And there it could be, the Ministry of Pensions, when it's already their... It could actually be very easy to prove. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, all that would be necessary would be necessary to calculate how much a single pensioner has invested in the second pillar and how much he is left with in the payment account, or how much he will receive as a pensioner. In doing so, these calculations should not be made by pension funds, nor by banks, but by doing these calculations, an independent body, which is, above all, HANFA. It is interesting that when at the same time, in parallel with Croatia, bankers came to the Slovenian government, they were offered the introduction of compulsory pension funds, specifically the second pillar, in Ljubljana they laughed at them. They laughed at them. They said, "What's on your mind?" Give me the money, separate for the pensions, to hand it over to you. To give up your money for your private good. Imagine, the Czech President,... He didn't even want to hear the idea of the second pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wouldn't listen to it at all. Even one Serbia, with the help of the Economic Institute, made a calculation and said, so this is ridiculous, this is a clean loss, both for the country and for the pensioners. Some countries, though, settled, such as Slovakia, Poland or Romania, so they introduced a temporary second pillar, as well as Croatia, but they all gave up on it. They gave him up and turned him into a volunteer. Anyone who wants to, feel free to save. Let him hope and let him believe there's some money in there. But it's mandatory to force a man and be careful, it's called saving, so where's the savings, in which country is the savings, as soon as... Savings can only be something voluntary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something, in the end, that you can have at any time. And they pulled it all back, that reform, and they all left the second pillar as a volunteer. Well, you gentlemen from HDZ brought here to the Croatian Donald Tusk, the former Polish diameter, and ask him, please, Mr. Shucker, he looks at me palely. Next time, Mr. Tusk comes to the Parliament, ask him why he turned the second pillar into a volunteer. Here, let what Branimir Bunjac says, ask your esteemed colleague, whom you admire, here you give him a frenetic hand, which is why he gave up on him. Ask him, not me. Why did he forbid retirement companies to invest in government bonds? Why did he ask for trust fund fees to be transparency, let him explain it to you. Because the thought is unbearable to you, that you may hear something a member of the Living Wall says, so here, listen from a party that is close to you, at least to that ideological belief. How many trustees do they take? 400 million kunas, every year, our money, so let's imagine it. With 400 million kunas, all the kids in elementary school would eat hot meals, all the kids. All textbooks would be free of charge for 400 million kunas. So 500 thousand children in schools would be taken care of, and instead of taking care of 500 thousand children, we give 500 funds to managers. So who's crazy about it? And be careful what the minister says then, we'll give them more. They still need it. We're gonna increase the detachment. And of course, they're not the only ones, they're in it complicated, I've seen it in essence, that SDP, HDZ, HNS, GLAS, HSS, Smart, Mrssic, Hrelja, everyone agrees. Everyone says it's great, determined, move on. And why do they say that? Well, because they benefit from it themselves. Normally, I don't know, some HDZ or HNS MP thanks to this robbery will have bigger pensions, but those citizens who work and who really contribute to the budget, they will have fewer pensions, less. And they already have beaten pensions, which can't be lived, and in the future they'll have even more bile. The average pension in Croatia is currently 1700 kn. 1700 kn and it'll be even less. So who can live with it? Come on, explain to me, who can live with the I don't know, less than 3,000 kn in the Republic of Croatia, no one. And that is the key question, the key question, what interests Croatian citizens, is whether all of this reform package, all of these laws, which the secretary of state says, are written in a clear and understandable language, whether we will have bigger pensions or less. And I say we'll have less and less. And this 40% salary, which is now one pension, is going to be even lower in the future. What we in the Living Wall have imagined as a reform, and what I'm saying here, it wouldn't turn out to be just a criticism without a solution, which is that first of all, we suggest that the second pillar turns into a voluntary one, who wants to save, save, who doesn't want to have to. Here, I don't want to go first, but secondly, to introduce guaranteed minimum pension, you already have the law in the process, which will increase the lowest pensions by 50%. Then, to introduce a national compensation for age, people who are more than 65 years old who have not obtained the right to retire do not have to receive social assistance. Then we suggested that the HRT tax which massacres Croatian citizens be abolished, primarily pensioners, and then abolished the additional health insurance completely unnecessary, imposed solely because the state mismanages with the system that is being bought in cash at the disposal of 24 billion kuna each year, I mean specifically HZZO, then to change the Swiss model to calculate pensions, since this calculation makes pensions really less than 1.5% each year, so that is the problem and what is very important is to introduce a whole series of social measures that would go hand in hand to pensioners, which is primarily enough places in retirement homes at acceptable prices. These would be measures that could significantly improve the lives of pensioners without the need to be additionally burdened, without the need to work until 67, without the need to re-employ them at a more advanced age and to carry out all these completely unnecessary changes that are essentially nothing but throwing dust into the eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89683	We are now going to the discussion of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89684	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, state secretary Buric, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds is before us. In a very comprehensive opening statement by State Secretary Buric, we heard all the amendments and additions to the proposed law, but still several cartoons should be repeated and highlighted. The application of the Mandatory Pension Funds Act came into force in February 2014. The monitoring of the system or in the fourth year of application of the law, and in order to correct the ambiguities that have been demonstrated in its application, it was concluded that further development and improvement of the compulsory capitalised savings system and harmonisation of the provisions of the law with other regulations and that certain amendments and additions should be made. Therefore, the final draft of the law, and as we have heard in a more precise way, regulates the investment policy of pension funds in order to improve the business of entities in the mandatory capitalised system. Following this, benefits are also expected for all members of compulsory pension funds, such as improving the quality of investment in pension funds. It also ensures greater investment security as well as better risk management in such a way as to prescribe the obligation to assess and credit the issuer in which the assets are intended to be invested. Furthermore, in order to increase the transparency of the business of pension societies and the information of members of compulsory pension funds, it is proposed to amend the provisions relating to award policies. Amendments are proposed in a way that obliges pension societies to publish in the annual financial reports the total receipts of all workers who have to be specifically dismembered on the reception of members of the management, supervisory board, procurators or workers of pension societies whose work may have a material impact on the risk profile of the pension society or pension fund. Already mentioned by cutting the deadline for the selection of a mandatory pension fund to one month instead of the previous six months, the unnecessary accumulation of funds will be reduced in the provisional account to which payments are passed on to fund members who have not yet selected the fund. We also believe that it is good to allow better information on the need for the personal selection of the fund in such a way as to prescribe that REGOS describes in written notice the type of fund which it can choose as its essential characteristics and the rights of the insurance company itself, as well as information on where all further more detailed information on a particular type of pension fund and pension society can be obtained. Furthermore, it is proposed to facilitate the transition of pension fund members from one category to another within the same pension society in such a way that it is possible to do so once a year, but only in the calendar month in which a member is born. The law also amended infringement provisions to make the descriptions of punitive conduct clearer and more precise. The infringement provisions now contain a specific description of the infringement which corresponds to the content of the standard to which it calls and a specific description of the infringement and the items of the point of the regulation to which it relates. This creates greater legal certainty for the supervisory entity. At the very end, it is evident that the Government is seeking to strengthen and specify control over the work of compulsory pension funds, to increase labour transparency and to force more attention to the education of citizens, which means the Fund A and B, or primarily in terms of yields and risks. More powers are also given to the independent regulatory agency HANFA and the Government is also aware that these four funds will be available at the end of 2018 with 100 billion kuna and is therefore aware of the importance and strengthening of the control and transparency of the work and education of citizens as well as the roles of an independent regulatory agency. Following all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89685	Thank you. Now he should be at the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, counterpart Panenic. He's not here. He's losing his word. So also the club of HNS representatives colleague Curaj is not here, he loses his word. SDP representative club colleague Maras, loses his word, HSS representative club colleague Kreso Beljak is not here, loses his word. An individual debate, colleague Bulj, is not here to lose a word. But the word doesn't lose a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89686	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state. We're talking about pensions, I did just before, and through that replica I pointed out that key problem, you didn't answer me, but I didn't really expect it, but here I am going to repeat it for the sake of the Croatian public. When we talk about pensions, it's crucial that those pensions are paid tomorrow. If our demographic situation is the way it is in the country, and we all know, here I am today and at the break I said we're losing 80,000 people by emigration, and we lose 20,000 people a year based on negative natural growth, you come to us with simple mathematics that tomorrow we won't have anyone to pay our pensions. The average age of the Croatian population today is over 45 years and here is a Nigerian country that is not the youngest country of the world is 17.9 years of average age. And even that Nigeria is thinking about this pension system that seems to us far and underdeveloped and we who have a terrible depopulation don't think about it. We're talking about pension funds, we're actually talking about that second pillar, what we're going to do with it, whether those who were paying him something will give that money to the state or not. But whether it's left to us who have been paying money into it or not, I think the pension system is going to collapse this way sooner or later. Simply, there is no mathematics, there is no mathematics that pensioners future, my generation or generations of my children have pensions this way. And what Minister Pajic said the other day actually... but shyly said the Emperor is naked, the pension will not be the way you're used to but I'd like to say it a little more explicitly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like this topic, one key topic, to be very important, like some others today, not to be discussed like this, not to say quickly, but this is one day that is specific, after one celebration, after one glorious victory we are discussing about pensions that are very, very important for our people. Here's a colleague of Bunjac mentioned earlier that those who were able to choose the first or second pillar that as much as 99.9% chose only the first pillar, and that's actually saying something about that original reform that, we heard, was rejected by many countries in the world, they didn't even think they were going to the second pillar. And then the key question, I'm going to repeat it for the third time or for the fourth time, whether we who are here in the Parliament and those who are watching this on television and those kids who are playing in kindergartens are going to have a pension at all. And on the other hand, if we have a pension, I'm afraid it will be extremely symbolic. Today, the average pension is 1700 kuna, 1700 kuna. That's what, 55 kuna a day, 55 kuna a day. I wonder all these legislators, I may have made a mistake in any kuna or lip, but I wonder, here's to all of us who are passing these laws and we're discussing pension funds if we could live with 55 kuna a day, how much food we could buy, could we get dressed for that money, could we pay for the directing? And then it's horrible for the state to say that it actually took responsibility off itself and said, okay, you have a pension and gave him something that's not enough for existence. I will also point out, as my colleagues, that it is a real shame that Minister Pavić is not here today, because it is a key topic, a topic that is very, very important for our future and should be here today, regardless of how well you have defended it and everything, but he should be here today because it is a subject that will be very much discussed in the coming months and he, as a minister, has to be here and defend his law. Unfortunately, he's not here. So I'd like to conclude, we're going in reverse order, we're building a house from the roof and there's no foundation. The first thing the Croatian state must do is demographic reconstruction. If we, but literally tomorrow, don't place absolutely all the funds available for demographic recovery, if we don't get natural growth instead of natural decline, if we don't stop eviction from Croatia, we won't have pensions. And that would mean that we as a system, as a society, will not function. I know this is one speech that won't impress you so much or have so much influence on the public, but here, try to remember it in a few years or over a decade. All those watching this must know the pensions you will not have and the reason is the demographic collapse of Croatia, and unfortunately on this issue you do not take adequate measures, the money that exists in the budget is spent on things that are not a priority and there is only one priority in Croatia today, which is that as a nation we still exist. A state without people, a state where no one lives just doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. And now as strange as this sounds, we will literally have cities like we have many villages and numerous islands that are completely uninhabited, completely uninhabited. So far we have boasted with Roč and Huma as the smallest cities in the world, we will have thousands of them, we will have hundreds of settlements that will be without inhabitants. And the few people who will be in Croatia will not have a pension, because there will be no working population capable of paying money for the pensions of those who deserve it. So I am sure that we will be able to expect to extend the working life of the Croatian population in due time. Well, my generation is probably going to be 70 years old, and in the end, it's going to be a lifetime. I'm sure that too, so whoever has the job skills won't even have the right to retire because the pension of the state won't be able to give it. That's so much from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89687	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure by an MP who has already lost his right to speak, so I warn you that everything is very clear in the Rules of Procedure, you were here and you said what you think is hurt. And I will now tell you so very clearly in Article 233 here is the following, the representative who applied for the talk and was not present in the hall when he was called to lose the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied. Afterwards, this is even more important to you, the right to speak on the subject of the agenda for which he applied to be lost and a representative of the club of representatives who were not present in the hall when he was invited to speak on behalf of the club of representatives. It was you. Members of the Club of Representatives whose representative of the Club has lost the right to speak on the subject of the agenda referred to in Article 5, may speak, so other members of your club may speak but you cannot. [[Intruder Maras: It's all clear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89688	It's all clear, and you've told yourself everything about what you've read. Since it is pointed out that the representative of the club of representatives or club as on behalf of the club loses his word, the representative who applied as a representative may continue to speak. So it's very clear why he would stand out at all, so please don't make fun of yourself, so please don't make fun of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89689	Intruder President: You can contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system./... [[President: Comrade Maras, here's your time. So I'm asking you, I as a representative have....../]] No, I'm not going to talk because it's a healthy thing. [[President: Then I'm sorry, you get a warning and you can't talk anymore.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89690	... logic... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89691	Comrade Maras, no, I won't give it to you, you've been warned, please sit down. We're moving on with our work... No, please, you force, not me, there is a clear order, there are clear rules, everything is defined in Article 233 and I ask you, your right is now what you have left, it is to address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] I can't, no, you're breaking the Rules of Procedure and it's over. You can't talk anymore. ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Comrade Maras, please sit down, you have now received a notice with the withdrawal of the right of speech. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Now it's my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in. ... Comrade Maras, it's not my fault you weren't here, what's the matter with you? ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] No, you didn't come, don't, please don't, I'll look for a video here, don't lie, please. ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] I'm asking you to... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] And what's my fault that you weren't in the hall when you were? ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Comrade Maras, just a minute. ... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Comrade Maras, I ask you to sit down. ... You don't, no, you have no right. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Now it's your turn... Okay. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] You should appeal to the Constitution Committee, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... All right, now please sit down and let a colleague of Branimir Bunjac who's here. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89692	... [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89693	I'd like to ask you now, colleague Maras, to leave the assembly alone or I'll ask the guards to do so. ... Yes, it is. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Don't make people uncomfortable, I have no other way than to do it, I don't like it, but unfortunately you've broken the Rules of Procedure. ... I'd like you, please. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] Ten-minute stop and please have colleague Maras leave the assembly. It's 12:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS]] It is now up to the individual debate of the respected colleague Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89695	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The problem with compulsory pension funds is that they invest most of the money in government bonds, which also officially bear the name of garbage on the eng. The Junk, which is below the investment rating, and one small part of the stock is invested, one small part of the money is invested in shares that also pose a huge risk and, as a rule, bear losses. I would like Croatian citizens to know that mandatory pension funds invested their money in Agrokor, that they lost at least a billion kuna, to invest in Petrokemia, in the Kredo Bank, in the Centre of the Bank, Luka Ploče, that they also suffered very large losses. I would also like to say that this government in no way intends to touch on preferential pensions, which would also be a significant possibility for the pension system to remain sustainable and I want citizens to know that every year the preferential pensions of Croatia cost 9 billion kuna. So, nine billion kunas, we have to give for preferential pensions, and without these preferential pensions, there wouldn't be as many holes in the 17 billion budget as we now have and can therefore be filled in exclusively by external borrowing, which, of course, is paid and interest. In this privileged group of pensioners, citizens are the most nervous about privileged pensions to politicians, government members, parliamentary deputies, although they no longer exist, a part of them have achieved that right in previous years. Then privileged pensions to academics who do not exist anywhere in the world, there are privileged pensions to former UDBA members, privileged pensions to Partisans, privileged pensions to locals, Ustashas, I don't know who they all don't, but I also need to be honest and say that most of that money from preferential pensions, 6 billion kuna, means 2/3 goes to Croatian defenders both from HV and HVO, with a tendency to increase, given that now such defence law has been passed that these pensions will be paid in a significantly higher amount than they have so far, and these pensioners will have a resolved existence in the future, and these pensioners who have worked, unfortunately, will not. It's wrong and it's public to say that someone who's been on the battlefield for 100 days has a bigger pension than someone who's worked for 40 years, because even though the one who's been working has made a lot of contributions to his country, he's certainly done an important job, and he's also filled the budget with big cuts, etc. So it would be realistic to expect that many defenders are primarily full of hearts, but it seems that in political trade with HDZ those who support them must be full of bills. Also, I would like to say that these mandatory pension funds not only destroyed the future of future pensioners, but that these mandatory pension funds must also be filled by current pensioners, so people who are retired already don't know, 10 or 15 years, they have to pay to charge these mandatory pension funds, and they pay it again, through increased taxes. Given that the mandatory pension column is second above all, increased public debt, crashed credit rating states and closed down numerous jobs, then must be taken through taxes, of course we all pay the same taxes. In addition to taking the future of future pensioners, the future has been taken away from young people. So, young people can't reach jobs, and they can't get good pay due to too much taxes. And they have to move out. So, the whole society, the young, the employees, the retired, the state loses through the obligation of pension funds, they lose. Every year, the state owes 17 billion to pay pensions, while at the same time the fund managers, as we said, are taking 400 million kunas, privileged pensions are taking 9 million kunas and there are 90 billion kunas in pension accounts that the state has paid them exclusively because one small percentage of Croatian citizens, above all politicians, have benefited about 2% of the population. That's the way it is. If it hadn't been for today, the pension system would have been sustainable, and pensions would be more than they are now. And if this madness continues, and especially what the secretary of state announces will further increase investment in mandatory funds, above all in this second pillar, there will be even less pensions, there will be even more taxes and there will be even more evictions and there will be fewer young people. And that's right, those MPs who used to say that in 20 years' time, there will be no more people in the Republic of Croatia unless they do not know, from China, from Serbia, from Serbia, I don't know how, from Kosovo, it's the only way to get someone to work and get a pension. The Croats will then probably become some minority in their own country, and that minority will therefore only be old, retired, because those who will be able to work, those who will have some health, education, perspective, you will all go to Germany, Austria. So you know what's gonna happen? Look out, yesterday Slovenia opened the borders for Croatian workers. 50,000 people are leaving, 50 grand. And 50 more, you will now see the stampede from the Carlovica County, from Zagreb, from Zagorje, from Međimurje and from Istria. And when Austria opens its borders, then another 150,000 people will leave. Are you aware of that? At least 200 thousand more working people are leaving, and this ratio of pensioners and employees that we now have 1,1-1 pensioners will simply be less. We'll dream of that in 10-15 years. Because in 10-15 years, there'll be 0.5% of the employees of one pensioner. That's what it's gonna be, if not less. The state can't exist. So why don't you read a sociological book, a history book when the states fail? They failed when they were out of people. They just stayed. Read, there are examples, amazing examples of a country that had 20 million inhabitants and eventually fell to less than 2. Read what led to that. How irresponsible, lack of strategy. What, what are we discussing here today? We are discussing, I don't know, some kind of nomotechnics, some adjustment of the EU rather than increasing pensions. That's the whole point, that's the question of whether you're in or out. And as far as I can tell, everyone here against except for a couple of parliamentary deputies who went into the topic, read something about it, compared it, did a comparative analysis of the mandatory funds in other countries, so they know something about it. Let's understand that pensions are too small and too strong and that something is causing it. If the second pillar is 17 years old and after 17 years no one in that second column wants to go, of course I'm talking about people who retire and if pensions are on average 1700 kuna, so was it enough time for you to open your eyes or must another 17 years go by? But for those 17 years, be sure that Croatia will look drastically, dramatically different than it looks now and you will regret having power in your hands and you could have done something, and you have allowed everything to be carried by water by a foreign-owned dictation of banks. You declare the Croatian state an enemy of the Croatian people, and a bank owned by their protector. So what's the common sense? Well, I can't believe what I'm listening to in the Croatian Parliament. Erste Bank protects Croatian people from the Croatian state. Shame! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89696	We have three replicas. The first is the honourable colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89697	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bunjac, I can't agree with you, nor can I understand you calling your friends and comrades privileged. Those who have suffered with you on the front, who have died, I think it belongs to them and the state is obliged to secure a pension. The pension is in that war damage quota that Serbia will eventually have to pay for by the Republic of Serbia, so it will not be a burden on the state budget in the future, but will be to pay off those who have committed aggression. So please, these are not privileged or privileged, but they are the true ones who have defended the Republic of Croatia together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89698	Answer me, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89699	Thank you very much. Representative Djakic, therefore, is a small correction. Let's talk about privileged pensions. So these are official data from your ministry, so there are people who have more pensions than other citizens, and you know exactly what categories they are, that's 20 categories like I mentioned, politicians, spies formerly, partisans, Ustashas, the natives, there are miners and some other dangerous professions, and there are simple HV and HVO defenders, that should be said openly. And don't deny that you simply traded politically with it and now I don't mention tents and gas bottles and I don't know what and that now that you've come to power that you've changed both the law and increased the budget and everything. I don't mind giving both the dead and the disabled and the defenders, but not in a way that puts the Croatian state's survival at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89700	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89701	Dear counterpart Bunjac, I wanted you to actually look back on what counterpart Djakic has already said. In part, you explained yourself in part, or a little bit, but you did say a few false things. The first lie is that they get up and the natives get pensions from, uh, privileged pensions. That's not true. Al get partisan pensions exist. There are also numerous pensions of JNA officers, that's true. And as for the defender, not a single defender because he was a defender for 100 days has received a privileged pension. So it's about the people who consumed it because they're disabled from the Homeland War, because they're wounded somewhere. If someone will eventually have a few more swears because at one point he went to defend his country, so why not finally. But when we talk about pensions and people with disabilities, you've probably suggested those fake ones, and I agree that these fake people with disabilities should be exposed, or that they should be audited by people with disabilities in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89702	A fellow Mud, an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89703	Thank you very much. Representative Zekanovic, so there are pensions privileged for members of World War II. Here, you can check here with the secretary of state, and as far as you're concerned, the defender has a minimum pension of 2800 kuna, if he's been 100 days, and the worker who worked for 40 years, say for the minimumer, has 1200-1300 kuna. And you can compare it. Now I don't know, 40 years working in construction, and it's supposed to work in construction, and it's also helping the country and 100 days being on the battlefield, and you haven't been hurt, or killed, or anything I agree with, I'd give everybody, I'd like to give everyone I don't know, 10 thousand kuna pensions, but the question is, does the state have? Does the state have any? If we're taking away the young people's future to give the pensioners, I don't agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89704	We're going to the last line. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89705	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you said the borders of Slovenia are opening, Slovenia has made a decision, Austria is expected. These days, we see that the ceremony is being held after the 5 years of being in the EU, so the prime minister said it was a great achievement that our people have an unlimited possibility of moving, free borders, that he welcomes Slovenia's decision, that he hopes that in a few days Austria will allow our workers to work. So do you agree with me that he should actually cry over that fact that opens the borders and that mass our workers are leaving and that their only way is to solve the problems of the pension system and others, even if they all move out, and they're the rest of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89706	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89707	Agent Lovrinović, do you know who does that? That's how the communist regime works in Cuba. Anyone who wants to move to Florida can. And now there's a million Cubans in Florida. And they're happy with that because they don't have any more dissatisfied people, they don't have an unemployed, they have nothing, and they're more politically stable because there's the opposition that left the country. And normally, the prime minister insists that all borders be opened that as many Croats go away as possible because he wants only members of HDZ and bankers to live in Croatia, of course. These are the only future inhabitants of Croatia along with, of course, unhappy pensioners who cannot leave the country. And look at one interesting fact. During pre-accession negotiations with the EU, and especially during EU membership, the corruption index in the Republic of Croatia is increasing, larger and larger each year. He didn't fall, he's bigger. And that only tells you how the EU itself is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89708	Now let's go to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89709	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. Today we are discussing a law that I said in the bill that should not have appeared but had to wait for what the ruling coalition proposed, and these days they made important proposals, practically to remove the second pension column, but they were practically test balloons to see how the public would behave, so that they could see whether or not they would withdraw or somehow adapt. I remind the public, and over the past months I've been writing to especially retired people more and more, but also young people who pay contributions because they're confused, they don't understand until the end of what this pension system is, and especially the second pension column. It is really not easy today in the Parliament and on the public scene to say something that our Europeans would say counter-retirement reforms and the second pension pillar because all media are practically dominant media in the hands of those, they control them and they only want to spread their version of the truth. I want to remind you of the next one. That pension reform from 1999 is, in fact, a model of the World Bank that it has spread around the world, and it has proved to be poor and is abandoned in an increasing number of countries. What I'm particularly trying to say is that our pension system is in a major crisis, it's in a deficit. Each month about a billion and a half kuna is missing to pay regular pensions to all pensioners, so the payments by way of contributions are about 21 billion kuna per year, and 17 billion kuna each year must be taken from the state budget, which means out of the pockets of all of us, from taxes, excise duties and others. So we have a chronic problem with the pension system that he is in a continuing and growing deficit. And what was the hoax of this World Bank model? She was in it to say, so you Croats see, it's not a good system. We suggest next to the first pillar, set up a second pillar. In the second pillar, stand out 5%, and then there the experts in pension funds, they can spin it, make money, and they've made a dominant 80% in the state, so from that same country, making contributions because they've credited it because we see that the chronic money shortage is in the pension system, you'll have bigger pensions in the future. Dear citizens, you are very intelligent and understand that you are also users of future pensions, and on the other hand you are taxpayers. In order to settle all pension funds or their investment companies and to get those bonds they buy from the state and thus lend it, to pay interest on these government bonds, then the state must take from us again from the left pocket by tax, to put our right pocket in the form of our pensions. And now you see that someone's bothering you, someone's unnecessary. And who's unnecessary? Intermediate. One who certainly earns money in this business is pension fund management companies. It's already been said here that last year they made about 370 million kuna in real money. So, at the expense of about 370 million kunas. They have earned cumulatively since the start of this reform, meaning since 2001, about 7 billion kuna for various fees. I repeat, pension fund management companies, four of them are all owned by foreign banks in the past 15, 16 years about earning about 7 billion kuna only by managing and intermediating. Well, all of you who ran this country, and you know who it is, so of course you can't admit it to the Croatian people today, so it's interesting how each other defends this model. Why? Because you're stuck in it to the end, and you'll have to submit to Croatian citizens one day an account for what you've done. And you're here today to reassure them, as well as the selected media, who, through the PR, is that this is a top-of-the-line project. Well, gentlemen, is Croatia such a brilliant country and its leadership that everyone else in the EU has left this model pension system, everyone? The last one was Romania a few months ago, and only Croatia hasn't done it yet. So that's just saying how much our political authorities are under financial oligarchy, let's say big capital. And that's why we have to get rid of a pension system like this, but one way you're trying to trick the public, and you're afraid someone's gonna take the money out of their pockets, or another pension column. No, you designed that lie yourself to protect your role in this corrupt pension reform that you introduced both sides. In total, about 15, 16 years, some 60 billion kuna was paid into the second pension column. From the state, investment in government bonds has drawn about 25 billion kuna interest on the calculation of Prof. Beige and about 7 billion for pension funds management companies for clean mediation in the business. So you see who makes the only money here. And these 25 billion yields are cumulative in these 16 years we'll pay the gentlemen, not some strangers. So where's the logic of this pension system? And don't lie to the citizens anymore, you have to tell them the truth. The peace system is compromised, it is unsustainable, as such unsustainable, you can't keep it on jobs in a way that pension funds invest in government bonds, so interest rates in the same state, and those interest rates we have to pay as taxpayers. That's the elemental logic. The fact that it is still being defended in the Croatian Parliament says how much we are still, forgive the words of the banana state, and here it will have to change the situation. And that's why I'm calling in front of the party to change Croatia that had a program convention two months ago, we have the strongest team of experts to finish our solution and we suggested it, but it was a terrible media blockade. And dear citizens, in the next few days, we're going to record a video feed where you can see exactly what's going on, which is true. No one can take your money from the second pension column, but it is about giving you the freedom to do what you want with your money, will you transfer it to the first pension column where you also have your own account or will leave it in the third pension column today that is voluntary and that your money is capitalized in that fund. So the party Change Croatia sees the future of the pension system and only sustainablely in two retirement pillars, the first is this solid intergenerational solidarity and the second voluntary one where the savings will be capitalised, where the pillar will be given even more opportunities to invest in the country and abroad. That's a real story. When they introduced mandatory pension funds you couldn't choose whether or not you would, you could only choose which fund you would enter. It was not democratic, it was autocratic, so it must be given freedom to all citizens to decide what they want to do with their money. That money isn't saving, they're not telling you the truth that it's saving. The larger the property of pension funds already is the public debt of the Republic of Croatia, 72% of the pension funds' assets are in government bonds, and the bond is nothing but debt. You have debts in your hands. Imagine if one of your neighbors gave you their debtors as a form of his 72% property, you could free the cat on the tail to hang it. I'm sorry about these expressions. That's why we have to open our eyes. Let's listen to the experts of competent people, enough of the manipulations in Croatia, give the mother a diet, respect the profession and competences, not give us any representatives who collect political points and read news portals, media portals to give you their version of the truth. In this sense, the party Change Croatia sees a pension system in a way that needs to be moved to two pillars, has to make a voluntary decision, be able to decide where to include individual citizens in order to guarantee a minimum pension and that the rates of GDP growth must be over 5% because we cannot demographically replace what we lack. This is a big topic, this is a key topic of the Croatian moment of the people and the state. And this House didn't schedule a plenary session, you see here we're dealing with technical matters and that's why I invite you to support us in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89710	We've got two replicas, the first one's up, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89711	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović. So you're right about the pension payment missing 17 billion kuna. And who gives that 17 billion kuna? We give the rest of the Croatian citizens. Here is the higher tax, for example, due to VAT fees, the average Croatian employee pays an annual salary to the budget of 7 to 8 thousand kuna, and then at the end of the year pension funds tell him you got a thousand kuna. So I'm giving you eight, and I get a thousand, so let's say I replace you 100 kuna you give me 100 euros and then when it comes to the presentation at the end, I say but Professor Lovrinovic got 100 kuna, he earned it, and I completely shut up the information that he gave me 750 kuna at the same time. That's how reporting to the public about mandatory retirement pillars works, and it's time for the public to finally open their eyes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89712	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89713	Dear counterpart Bunjac, there is no end to citizens' manipulations. So remember a few months ago when it was a crowd around Agrokor, it wasn't reported about it with just the mandatory pension funds lost over 500 million kuna only on LEDA stocks, and when someone asked representatives of the pension funds association who were all in the hands of foreign banks why it was so, they said it was marginal to the vast billions they had. In that sense, the citizens are extremely manipulated, but remember when we came to this House two and a half years ago, so that's not supposed to be talked about at all, you know. I am happy and satisfied today that still the voice of reason, people understand logic and arguments, that more and more come into the ears of citizens, that they are increasingly understanding and that they will oppose all those who led this country and many more are sitting here and will come to their senses in the next election.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89714	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague of the coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89715	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start my debate with the words of an esteemed colleague of Shucker, who this morning said about pension reform, about pension funds, that everyone was talking about something and that it was actually an imaginary reform that no one had seen. However, counterpart Shuker forgot that it was not imaginary what the minister presented last week, that it was not imaginary what the minister was talking about today at the Westin Hotel, where he had time to come unlike the Croatian Parliament, but it was possible in all of this the imaginary minister himself, the minister himself who did not feel it necessary to come here before parliamentary deputies to answer questions, to answer all the questions he had talked about the past few days. Another parallel that is imposed from everything we've seen about the minister but also about the prime minister's behaviour. You saw how the president of the Croatian government took advantage of the moment, threw into the fire his minister and then began to wash his hands afterwards. I am sure that I am not the only one who has been inexorably reminded of another Croatian prime minister, another politician who has used his Minister Polancec in the same way, threw him into the fire and then washed his hands afterwards or taken over the story, depending on how everything in public was received. It was of course, Ivo Sanader. Plenkovic, in the last few days when we talk about pension reform, took exactly the same as Ivo Sanader, took the minister and threw him into the fire and then spit it out to the Croatian public only to wonder what would happen to the property of Croatian citizens, which would be with the savings of Croatian citizens, which would be with their pensions. We don't even have that answer after today's debate. And why don't we have an answer? Because today we are dealing with techniques even though it is clear in the Croatian public both by the minister and by the prime minister that the whole story of the pension will be changed in the autumn. And today we're discussing something that we don't even know is going to be relevant or applicable by the end of this year. We don't know that. And why don't we know? Because yesterday or the past days, we have heard that changes are being made in the work relating to pension funds and in the work relating to the use of money that has been capitalised on the individualised account of Croatian citizens and in the way in which that famous 27% supplement will be recognised, etc. So, the whole story about how to pay out pensions to Croatian citizens at this point is unknown and the unknown is because the minister, the resolution minister, came out and started talking to one another and then the prime minister the other. Why? because the entire Croatian public reacted to that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, no one but no one would mind the government doing its job. It's her responsibility. No one would mind the government starting some kind of reform, but not in this way. And not on a subject like this. We can't joke about this. We have to discuss it with the social partners before, we have to discuss it with the unions, we have to discuss it with employers, we have to discuss it with representatives of the pensioners' association, and not in this way drop the bomb, scare the citizens because many of them are worried about their future, and then pretend that nothing is happening. Dear colleagues and colleagues, everything has gone wrong and today we are discussing only technicals. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the only right thing to do with this bill that's in front of us is to withdraw it. Drag it, prepare a serious reform, a sustainable reform, show all economic indicators behind the fact that we know how much this will cost Croatian citizens in the future and then go public in a broad public debate but not in a way that the minister one day speaks one day and the president of the Government of the Republic of Croatia the other day. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I said it in the morning, I'll say it again and now, withdraw this law, do the job right, if you're not able to do it, step aside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89716	We've got five replicas, the first one's the honorary colleague Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89717	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, as much as you try and twist the words of both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, it cannot come to you because the Prime Minister was denied by the Prime Minister because it was about whether or not he was abolished. Retirement column. Nit said so, however, he said it only needed to be strengthened, nor did the prime minister say that the pension pillar would be abolished or would not be abolished, but was talking about the need to make the pension system in Croatia sustainable and that pensions would be adequate and that new pension reform would allow the pension system to be sustainable. I repeat, the prime minister did not deny the minister or spend it as you said, although in his interviews he confirmed the words of Minister Pavic during the weekend.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89718	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89719	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bacic. I sincerely thank you for this replica because now, after what you have said, it is clear now, behind everything announced by Minister Pavic, clearly stands the prime minister. So the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is behind the biggest blackmail offered in history to Croatian citizens, instead of granting them the right to an allowance of 27% that is denied to them, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia is behind the blackmail that he says, you will get the supplement some are already getting, you will get the supplement that belongs to you under the Constitution and the law, but only on condition that you leave your savings to the state. Dear counterpart Bačić, thank you for your replica, because after it is clear, behind this robbery behind this kidnapping, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not have one imaginary statement from the minister, but is behind it by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HDZ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89720	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89721	Thank you. Dear fellow coat of arms. You see this ruling coalition doesn't know what it would do, but there are exact things in the economy, and that's when you see in accounting that there's no money in the bag then you have to admit that there's no money. So Minister Pavic realized when someone calculated him that there was not enough money in the pension system. Now the points are earned on whether they will be introduced, abolished, etc. But it's often repeated that the money in the second pension column is that it's savings. You're a lawyer and you're a lawyer with your savings, so you can have it, transfer it, put it in less or more, and eventually what you think about the idea if it's a savings, then why people who take a housing loan don't recognize that part as a guarantee or even that they can use it. Look how many problems and manipulations there are, and this government is actually looking for an excuse, and she doesn't know how to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89722	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89723	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Lovrinović. You're right, I'm not an economist, but I am a lawyer, and I know as a lawyer, and I know what property is, and I know what the individual's own property is, and I also know what savings is. The savings appear in several forms, they appear in forms where they are voluntary, such as the savings that you and I put on a vista, but already when we refer to it there are certain restrictions. In the third pillar, there are greater restrictions, and in the case of compulsory pension savings, individualised, capitalised on the second pillar, there are major restrictions, among other things, to guarantee that citizens will receive some income. And precisely because citizens are guaranteed that they will receive certain incomes at age, it is totally unacceptable for me to offer the government, the prime minister and the HDZ to the citizens the option of obtaining the right that belongs to them only if they give up something of their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89724	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89725	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. Well, here's a really weird fact that we've been working for five days this week, and we have 40 points, we have pension reform, we have execution, we have blockades, we have referendums, we have personal consumer bankruptcy and we have many other laws, and we have three breaks during this year, one in January, then we had in February, then we had in April, we knew we had so much free time because we didn't have anything to do, and now suddenly in the seventh month we're going to make up for it. Are we making up for it just because it's the World Cup now, is it because it's summer? And if we're not making up for all that, then why doesn't the minister come and help out a little bit in this debate that's so important? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89726	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89727	Dear counterpart Bunjac, the minister could not come. How can you not understand that? The minister had to go to Westin. Well, the minister can't come to the Parliament when he has to go to Westin, when he has to go to a hotel, he has to talk at some conference about some things, and there's no time for us MPs in the Croatian Parliament who are supposed to vote in this law tomorrow, which tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, should vote on imaginary pension reform and there's no time for us. There's no time to come here where you might have to answer very harsh questions. And as for this other one, I wouldn't say that there's only a world championship that's been pushed in here. The fact is that once a week you have 40 points simply can't prepare yourself for each of them equally well, it's physically impossible. And that's exactly what counts here, that we will be exhausted by our representatives and that we will not talk about topics such as pension reform, health care, etc. But I believe they're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89728	Thank you. Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89729	You were talking about blackmailing Croatian citizens. So I don't know if in history it's been reported that one government blackmails its citizens like this and is actually asking them to steal their savings so that they can patch up their gaps in the budget that have been caused by the incompetence of the entire government. And that the minister from that government who announced it doesn't come to the assembly at the request of almost all the representatives' clubs and says what it is. Therefore, it is an inadmissible disrespect of this Assembly, parliamentary representatives and citizens of Croatia. And what kind of reforms are these? We will see this week on several occasions when we also have a health reform that carries only one thing to make health care less solidarity, less comprehensive and less accessible in Croatia. These are therefore reforms offered to Croatian citizens at their expense, while ministers do not deserve to come to the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89730	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89731	Dear counterpart Jovanovic, we have referred the proposal to the club of representatives more than half a year ago, which should have solved the supplement to 27%, which although by the nature of things belongs to all pensioners only one part is paid. So, over half a year ago as a club, we suggested a solution. The ruling didn't accept it. Then my colleague Hrelja and I offered another solution, alternatively, if this is not acceptable here's another one. And then they said, no matter what, it's all unnecessary, we'll as ruling come with a solution. And now we've seen what the solution is. The solution where he says, we'll give you the right, we'll pay you the right if you give us your money first. Oh, no, you don't. Well, of course the minister won't come, so of course he won't come because he's ashamed, because there's no courage coming out here in front of your colleagues and answering questions. It's not easy. It's easier to drum into the paper and stay alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89732	Thank you. And the last replica. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89733	... Have you seen this Retirement Reform Act? [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] And I'm surprised by you incorrectly interpreting fellow MPs as spoken. You're incorrectly interpreting it. But I repeat, have you seen these laws? You're not. So, what are you talking about? And secondly, I wish you'd been so theatrical, that you were so strong in your speech when you changed the Law in 2014 and when you took a billion and 600 from the second pillar of retirement. You took it, and why? To show a nicer picture of the budget because you were in excessive deficit measures. And you can say whatever you want, you can ask your colleague Lalovec, he can't tell you, that's Miranda Mrsic's suggestion. You took a billion 600, you took a colleague of the coat of arms and a colleague of the coat of arms, you talk imaginaryly today because you're talking about something that doesn't exist, and you as a lawyer would have to fight for the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89734	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89735	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker, it's not my fault that you made statements and programs of your ministers, from your party, from your government, said they were imaginary. I didn't write what the minister prepared, I didn't give it to the newspaper, and I didn't explain it every day after that. That's what my colleague Pavić did. I have every right, as well as any representative here in the assembly, to comment on what members of the Croatian government are announcing and what will be translated into laws by nature. And I'd better react now that it's time than when it comes to Parliament and when there's no time for it anymore. And as for 2014 and you and I know well that at that time it was a specific case of persons who had a well-favoured job experience and who would have been damaged by going to retirement with two pillars and therefore... those persons got bigger pensions. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89736	Comrade Shuker, please. ... Comrade Shuker, please don't throw away. ... [[You can't hear it.]] Comrade Shuker, please. [[You can't hear it.]] Let's move on now. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89737	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, what I'd like to say about the minister. Well, it's no accident that the minister isn't here today. The minister has other obligations. Well, then a different plan is made for the debate, President, for which you are in charge, so this issue is discussed when the minister is free for the Croatian Parliament, when there are no other obligations. Well, you didn't have to have this debate today. We could take her tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, work all week. But in any case, it is incredibly impertinent to discuss this subject without the minister's presence. Especially when you don't know what the minister is actually saying. We read the papers, then we read the denials of those statements. We don't even know what the plan is or what the minister thinks. And instead of being here to answer that in front of the public to our questions, you arrange a debate on the day the minister is gone. When it comes to pensions, then we could say in this way that these are three types of pensions or sources of pensions, first pillar, pillar of generation solidarity, second pillar of individualised savings, and third generation of pensions, third kind of pensions are pensions according to special regulations. This first column was invented by Bismarck and it works when the number of employees and the number of pensioners are arranged. There must be at least 4-5 employees on one pensioner. When he is disturbed, as he has disturbed in Croatia, that we have almost equal number of pensioners and the number of those who work, then the first pillar cannot function. Well, of course he can't. In 1989, so in SR Croatia the average pension was 75% of the salary on average. Why was she like that? And there was no other pillar at all. Well, because that was the relationship between the number of employees and the number of pensioners. Pension funds were republican, there was no federal retirement fund, and these pension funds were extremely rich. These funds are made of all nursing homes. Retired funds borrowed money from interest-based businesses. They were acting like a bank. Well, then in 1990, this relationship started to break down. First, HDZ in 1990 sent a large number of people retired for ideological reasons, for national reasons, they did not want them to stay in the system of work, so they retired them. The second big wave of retirement came after the war. People were going to war at work, when they came back, those companies of theirs were robbed and destroyed, they had nowhere else to go back, they had nowhere to work, and then HDZ- made the worst decision for defenders to retire. Instead of allowing them to return to the world of work and to rehabilitate, if they were, have suffered injuries in the war, no, they have been sent into retirement, these people are no longer for the world of work, they have to stay retired for the rest of their lives and that thing is irreparably ruined at their expense, to their harm, to the benefit of the defenders. On the other hand, we have one phenomenon in Croatia that the president one day says is wrong and the other day says it's good and that's leaving young people from Croatia, so those who are working. And those whose work it would work would be paid into pension funds. I don't know, the president is one day against it, he says that, to be demographic, to lose weight, to lose population, to lose number of Croats and another day to say, and look, that's good, to have people go out, to work, it's certainly not good, it's not good. Who's leaving? Schoold people? The educated people go out to us because they don't have a job, they can't find an adequate job, because they're employed here by party criteria, because they don't have, what do they have to hope for here, what do they have to hope for? And then they go out. And so we're going to go down not only demographically, but we're going to fail in terms of pensions. The lowest pensions in the EU are in Croatia, 55% of the average salary. They say by 2053 the pension will be 40% of the salary. That's a pretty bad perspective. So a pension of less than 2000 kuna receives 323 thousand citizens in Croatia. So how to live with a pension that's less than 2,000 kuna, how to live? Greece's pension is bigger than the salary of Croatian workers, it's our situation, it's our picture, it's the consequences of HDZ authorities all these years as HDZ is in power. The Prime Minister compares us to Africa, he says, that's how the Africans would be happy to have our standard. We live in the EU, celebrate the anniversary of EU accession and the prime minister compares us with Africa. I expect him to start a new party, it would be called the ADZ, an African democratic community, according to what he's saying, it's probably his next move. Because what else do you expect after such statements? So, even to the end, something about preferential pensions or pensions under special regulations. There's a lot of them. The government of Zoran Milanovic and parliament's majority then kicked lawmakers out of these preferential pensions. I mean right, I mean right. But there are also a number of people left, a group that receive pensions under special regulations, active military personnel, police officers, Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, former political prisoners, members of the Croatian Defence Council, etc., etc. What would be the only logical thing? Retirement from pension funds is paid only to those and only to the extent they've worked. And will the state give someone an add-on to such a earned pension? Well, it's a matter of state whether they give the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, whether they give it to ministers, whether they give it to soldiers, whether they give it to defenders, but it couldn't go out of this fund because they didn't pay in that fund, or not so much. So it's a matter of state spending state money. He can spend on pensions, he can spend on building roads, railways, but as the government decides. It's a matter of government and the government has a right to decide. But this system to pay out pension funds is no good, it's not fair. And that would be a reform at least one aspect of reform if that system made it fairer, more logical, better. He says, who, I don't know, I think colleague Zekanovic said they don't have fighters or members of units different from World War II and pension. They have, and they have partisans, and they have so-called. Members of the Homeland Army, although such a unit was not in World War II, there was no homeland army, they were Ustasha, they were indigenous and they were Partisans. And the native army, I don't know about that unit, and history doesn't mention it, so she entered the law so that it wouldn't be said that the law says that we're paying pensions to Ustasha and we're paying off. What? Well, that's true. Well, to make it a little more beautiful, it's said to the people of the country's army. Now, if this is going to keep going on like this, then the pensioners will have less and less every day and probably will, probably, it's fate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89738	We have three replicas, the first is the esteemed colleague Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Stazić, it would be good to have facts and figures in the Croatian Parliament and to make it clear that there was no party care, but that Croatian defenders are still working today. Today, 276,000 employees are still employed, whether in private crafts, factories, or companies. There were 300,000 of them two years ago, 56000 people with disabilities in the Homeland War who retired. 7,000 are families of the dead, 105,000 are those who are in regular retirement, not military, but agriculture from crafts and employees. 72000 is at the employment desk. These are also Croatian problems, for them the law stipulates that they will be paid for unemployment benefits from 1.1.2019 or before the conditions are met. These are the facts you need to know how to handle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89740	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89741	I know a lot of defense attorneys do, and that's all my friends who have been at war, so they're back doing it. But they're not yours under the tent. These under the tent are the ones who don't work and who live off other people's money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89742	Another replica, dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89743	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Stazić, you have pointed out a key problem, which is the number of employees in Croatia, without which there are no pensions, there is no health system, no education, and at the same time we have absurdities that are difficult to understand, we will talk about it in later discussions today. It's that the Minister of Health, for example. Drives highly educated people from Croatia, not wanting to recognise their activities at all, for which they are educated at Croatian universities. Of course, it is about magistrates, medical laboratory diagnostics, who can work in Ireland health institutions today, but at the same time, Croatian Health Minister, not to work in Croatia, but says, go to Ireland, so we will not solve demographic problems or pensions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89744	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89745	It's not just the Minister of Health, here, we're witnessing that the President of the Republic, constantly peasants of that office. So nobody can come to Croatia, because they can't find her, they're looking for her in Zagreb, she goes to Rijeka, then they go to Rijeka, she's already in Vinkovci, they're in Vinkovce, she's gone to Split. It's hard to find a president with that hillbilly thing. I just expect him to temporarily move to the minister's direction now, to move his office to Dublin, because there will soon be many more Croats than in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89746	And the third replica, dear colleague Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89747	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Stazic, you mentioned that pensions from the funds should only be given to those who filled them. And that's true, it's the only logical system. It's okay to have privileged pensions, if that's what the state decides, but pensioners, those pensions should get directly out of the budget. And this government, if it were to go into that reform, would be a reform, as you said, but Minister Pavic is not thinking about making a real reform, these days and so on, let's say, to fix the pensioner's standard, but he's thinking about how to get almost 90 billion kuna out of the second pension column. It means how to get the pensioner's money out, not in a way that makes it easier for the pensioners. And that's why Minister Pavic is not here today, and he won't be in public for a while. And we could adjust the term of this debate, according to his obligations, that's how it's done. It was made at the time when he was gone, because he doesn't want to come to parliament, give answers, to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89748	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89749	You say Minister Pavić is thinking. I don't know what Minister Pavic is thinking. Nobody in this country knows that. He makes contradictory statements. He says one day and then the next day he says, "I didn't say "A," and we all heard what he said. So, what Minister Pavić is thinking, it's an enigma, wrapped in a veil of secrets, moving towards the unknown.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89750	We now move to debates, finals, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89751	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This morning's dilettant opposition game in the Croatian Parliament by seeking a break, suggests the lack of any vision and knowledge about the future of the pension system and the need for reform of the pension system. Instead of taking 15 minutes to see the opposition clubs of Most, SDP and HSS have had the opportunity to state their position on the vision of the pension system, they are censured all morning because of the lack of Minister Pavic and to explain pension reform to them. And here, gentlemen, this isn't about pension reform. If it were a pension reform, I would have resented the minister, but I will remind you, that we are here today discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. When he's here, in the fall, the debate on pension reform, make sure there's a minister present. And speaking of reforming the pension system, I would like to say that the pension reform must bring and make a sustainable pension system, because 17 billion kuna is allocated annually from the state budget for the purpose of paying out pensions in Croatia. If we do not implement this reform, Croatian citizens, who were under 40 in 2002, will have a pension of 500 kn less than those who are retired and had the same average salary. And because of this fact, by 2040 in the Croatian Pension System, 40 billion more will be missing. And nobody is talking about it, nor Minister Pavic, nor the Government, nor the Prime Minister, is talking about the abolition of another pension fund, but the pension fund needs to be strengthened, it needs to be strengthened. So I ask you a question, where were our SDP colleagues when they were in power, why didn't they go into retirement reform then? Why did they not then see that there would be fewer pensions, why then they did not find compensation for these young people, for these Croatian citizens, insurance companies that are now going to retire in 2018 or 2019. You should have found a way and model to make a pension reform or should have made an immediate contribution to II in 2002. Retirement column raised to 10%. That is why, as you did not have the necessary level of political responsibility when we were here in the Croatian Parliament discussing the adoption of the Law on Extra-Governmentary Management in Commercial Companies of Systemic importance when there was a crisis in Agrokor, you feared Croatian citizens that this law would lead to the burden of the debts of Agrokor falling on Croatian citizens and taxpayers, so you are now lamenting that the announced pension reform will take their savings from II to future pensioners. Retirement pillar. This will not happen to respected colleagues and colleagues, but the announced pension reform that we will discuss in the autumn will lead, on the one hand, to the sustainability of the pension system and, on the other hand, to the adequateness of pensions, or we will seek through reform of the pension system, to increase pensions in the Republic of Croatia. And until then, we're talking about something that we haven't seen, and it's just my colleague Shucker when you say that you're lamenting about something that you haven't seen and what you've heard and what you're misreading. Therefore, I would finally, on behalf of the HDZ Club, support this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, support the Ministry and the Government in an effort to make a systematic reform of the pension system as soon as possible, which will allow Croatia, although the ratio between pensioners and workers is 1:1,23, is still sufficient in the HZMO pension fund to pay pensions in accordance with the standard and needs of Croatian citizens and in order to minimise the burden of paying pensions in Croatia's budget. Well, in that sense, here we are, from Cuba, giving support to HDZ representatives, and we expect to discuss this pension reform as soon as possible in the Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89752	Thank you very much. The next final presentation on behalf of the "Live Wall and SNAGA" Club will be given by the respected representative Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89753	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we have heard only the praise of HDZ representatives who say that everything is going in the right direction, however the same for the will, it should be reminded once again that there has been a pension system crisis at all and the pension system crisis has occurred in a way that is precisely the governments of the HDZ in the so-called. The conversions and privatisations threw hundreds of thousands of Croatian workers on the road so they didn't know what to do, and then they gave them some pensions, early, disabled, invented. Croatia is normally an absolute recordr in Europe after disabled pensions, not only in military but primarily in civil life, so that there is no confusion and then young people from 30 to 40 have become pensioners, and it is normal that this ratio has occurred as we have, so 1.2 employees per 1 pensioner. In addition, HDZ governments have just expelled young Croatian people abroad, have not given them jobs except for some lame, temporary training without a job, for 2,000 kuna they had to work, of course that people picked things up and left, even those who were the most educated, most capable, could not find their job in the profession but had to work again for some small salaries, minimals, etc., people with colleges, I don't know, had to share flyers, set up knauf plates, serve bicycles and normally that they left. And now, after 28 years of completely blaming economic policies, completely false social orientation, suddenly wonders that there are no more employees who would finance pensioners, how every year we have 17 billion kunas and also these same governments all the time encourage investment in compulsory pension funds in a way that banks recalibrate the Croatian state and give what is most important of all, then HDZ still represents as good and even announces that it will give more to the banks of our money free of charge for their well-being, for the benefit of future pensioners and against the interest of 98% of Croatian citizens who are worth, diligently and hard to live daily life, bloodyly separateing each kuna for both existential needs and for filling the budget and pension funds. Therefore, Croatian citizens need to know that with the HDZ government they will never have more pensions, only you will have lower pensions, there will be even less inhabitants in Croatia than there are now, demographic trends will fall so long as the number of Croats does not fall below 3 million inhabitants and in these 3 million inhabitants, the vast majority will be just the elderly and the retired and the young and the employees will be minorities. The only solution we have is to give trust to new, young, unspent forces that have never been in power before, which have not been contaminated by rotten compromises, and especially by those forces who are willing to implement a sovereign policy, an independent policy on the well-being of all Croatian citizens and peasants and pensioners and workers and young and educated regardless of who is a member of which party, regardless of who is or who is not but who will allow this country to be run by quality people, educated people, exclusively in view of their abilities, and not all of these, the similarities that have just been introduced by HDZ governments. Therefore, you have small pensions exclusively due to HDZ, with the assistance of the SDP and all those puppet parties that have agreed to participate in the circus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89754	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Secretary of State Majda Buric will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89755	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank you for a very intense debate, I will say so, and I will refer first and foremost to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, but I will also refer to the pension system in the Republic of Croatia. So, you all know that the first reading of this law was on February 14th of this year and I would dare say that this is one technical law, so the final proposal is actually proposed after four years of application of the law, during that time certain ambiguities in application were observed, the need to be complemented in terms of compliance with other regulations governing the operations of control entities such as the Open Investment Funds Act with the public offering, and also the Law on Alternative Investment Funds as well as the Law on Credit Institutions, but also the harmonisation with the legal property of the EU. The aim of this law is to strengthen the position of pension funds in the capital market, as well as to strengthen the control of HANFA. When we talk about the EU's acquis, then this is specifically about the so-called regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So once again, this bill strengthens the further protection of members of mandatory pension funds, also affects the simpler exercise of some pension fund members' rights, but also affects the promotion and preservation of trust in the capital market. So much for the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds. Since a lot of misinformation has been said here today, I would just like to remind myself that the average pension in the Republic of Croatia is 2.533 kuna according to the review of the basic data for May 2018. When we look at the number without international contracts, it's an average salary of 41.86%. What is also very important is that pensioners who have 40 and over years of training, that their pension is on average, I repeat on average, 4.350 kuna, which is almost 70% of the average salary. And that is one of the indicators why we should actually strive precisely to keep people on the labour market longer, since this indicator is related to the average pension rate in the average salary that applies to insurance companies who have 40 and over years of training, but such pensioners are only 20% in Croatia today, so each fifth is the one who has 40 and more years of internships. And what's important is that we have a short average internship, and that's just over 30 years, so I'm speaking in general. And what should be mentioned on this occasion, which is actually going through the whole debate, which is why Mr. Marko Pavić is not here today, and you know for a fact that the respected Mr. Minister is about to present reform measures to parliament, but this law is not a reform measure, I also said at the beginning of what law we are talking about and when we had our first reading and you know best what the aim of this law is. So the minister will present to the entire Croatian public that we went back a few days, you know that with concrete proposals we went public a few days ago, that the expert working group was related to the Mandatory Pension Insurance Act at the end of last week was informed of the initial proposals. However, I believe that the minister will be very pleased and present reform measures before you respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. However, I repeat, this law really does not apply to these measures. So what is also important to mention is that without reform our pension system is not long-term sustainable and I believe that you are all very well aware of the figures. So pension reform is driven by two objectives above all, which is the sustainability of the pension system and the long-term sustainability of the pension system as well as the suitability of pensions so that people can live from them. This initial proposal, which, for the first time since the second and third pillars were introduced, wanted to sensitize the public that there is a very serious problem, and this government does not want to close its eyes to problems, but that it looks into the eyes and wants to solve it. That's why I don't think it's good to spread or misinformation, and don't let God scare our pensioners who are the most vulnerable group of this society, so I don't think it's good to go with misinformation by spreading panic, spreading pessimism, etc. Because this is really too serious a subject to communicate like this. The Ministry and the HZMO and the experts within it also produced comprehensive projections, complex analyses, the effects of possible solutions, etc. However, it should be mentioned here that pensions are safe, that they are paid in time that they will continue to be paid in time. However, if it were necessary to change, we really believe that everyone is aware. The following is the debate on proposals, hence the initial proposals related to pension reform, the discussion with coalition partners in the government, the continuation of working groups meetings, numerous working groups with our social partners and the professional public, and the plan is, as you know, under the national reform plan to send the package of reform laws to the government's procedure in September. Of course, what we also consider important to point out is that the laws will go into two readings, so to the regular parliamentary procedure, and two GSVs will be held, so the economic social council. I think it would be good to point out once again that we currently have a million and 233,000 pensioners per million and 514 workers, which is a ratio of 1:1,23, which is long-term unsustainable. The imperative is, of course, in this whole context and the increase in the number of employees, the increase in the number of insurance companies, and what we can point out is that this number increases by 70,000 compared to last year. So 70,000 more employees compared to the previous period last year. In addition, this government has allocated two billion and 600 million kuna to growth and to encourage employment this year. I also find it important to mention that if the reform is not implemented, that future pensioners will have an average as Mr Bacic stated, on average they will have a lower pension of between 500 and 600 kuna. So, since 2002, all workers have been paid funds in the first and second mandatory pension pillar, but we have 300 thousand of our fellow citizens who have earned an average or lower salary, and in the next 15 years they have to retire and there are projections that according to existing laws, these people will have a 16% lower pension to the current pensioners, and that is what we do not want. We do not remove the second pillar, strengthen it, as I mentioned in the opening speech or in the replicas. So the minister himself publicly communicated the proposal to increase the second pillar by one percent by 2022, from five to six, but in two stages by 0.5% every two years. And notice once again, these are initial suggestions. In addition, I would like to mention once again that this is a proposal for a law that is so to say technical nature. Reform laws concerning pension reform, I believe, will very, very well present to you our Minister Marko Pavić when the time comes, and I have explained everything about both deadlines and procedure and, in fact, if you have any questions, I am available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89756	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, you said not to spread misinformation and panic. So please ask your minister not to spread disinformation, not to panic with his statements. Because one day he declared one thing, then after two days the other, I ironed myself. And you said that you didn't remove the second pension stake but to strengthen it. Now, things happen in the field that when people retire, if they're told, look, at the calculation, if you want to have a bigger pension, you have to give up the funding from the second pension column. And that's what's happening today. So when someone leaves today, literally, to calculate their pension and asks, people how much my pension will be, every man in the Republic says today, look, it's gonna be so big for you, but if you give up, and you're born before 1963, and you give up on a second pension stake, then you'll have 500 kuna more pension. And that's your reinforcement. You force people, as you offer them a choice to take what is deeply unfair. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89758	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89759	Thank you. Dear fellow Djujic, I remembered a familiar sensation. So why does a man have two ears and only one mouth or only one tongue? To listen twice as much as he says. I think it's really important that we listen well, because then we'll get along very well and understand each other, so, in that sense, I believe that you'll understand, too, after you've really heard the initial suggestions that we're talking about, no one here has said anything one day and the other day another. It was only about clarification, about additional notifications and information, and I think what's very important is that everything is very, very transparent and clear and once again referred to good, good listening, and then we'll understand each other very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89760	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89761	Thank you, Your Honor. It seems that for every announcement and every move of this government, we need some kind of interpretative statement. So, if we could even figure out what it's about, what the government's intention is to do and what the government is going to do, but it's obvious that neither the government is alone, so I'm the minister nor the prime minister know in what direction we're going to go in, the only way we can take such statements as some kind of groping was public. What I've told you and already in one replica, it's clear that we need real reforms. You have now said that this law is of a technical nature, and of these real reforms we have nothing, we have no public administration reform, we have no discharge from our entrepreneurs and from tax and non-taxable giving, we have no incentives for the economy, we have only the departure of young people from Croatia and that is a fact and these are the results of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89762	State Secretary Buric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89763	Thank you. Dear Mr. Grmoya, the direction we're going in, I've said it several times, I'll repeat, it's the direction of long-term sustainability of the pension system, as well as the appropriateness of pensions. That's the direction the Ministry of Labour and Pensions is heading. You mentioned reforms, and you know for a fact that at the end of 2016, only a few months after this government took responsibility, we launched a tax reform that relieved our citizens of about 3 billion kuna. So, with tax reform, with the first stage started back in December, more precisely 9 December was a day-long and night-long debate, 2016, you remember it very well, the second stage of tax reform as you know it is under way. In addition to that reform in terms of the Ministry of Justice, I think that the other day you discussed it, so here it is, that's the answer to your important reform issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89764	Thank you. I draw attention to the fact that this is a debate on the Mandatory Pension Funds Act. Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89765	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in your final presentation, you said there were millions and 233,000 pensioners in Croatia, and you were talking about difficulties in detachment from the pension budget. I think it's clear to everyone that the difficulties have arisen as a result of the fact that a series of pensions by special regulations have been introduced into the system and is not covered by contributions. How many pensions are there, can you tell us? And the second question, you were talking about misinformation, so I was wondering if you had a conversation with the minister on your colleagues about everything he said in the past few days where he talked differently every day, so I had two ears, then I didn't even speak, I was just listening, and I also read what Prime Minister Plenkovic said, so in all three steps the two of them were completely diametrically opposed attitudes related to the announced reform of the pension system. So what exactly is a misinformation?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89766	Dear Secretary of State Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89767	I thank the esteemed Mr. Jovanovic. So when I was talking about misinformation, then I was actually saying, I'm just going to say one thing. Today we have heard that the average pension is 1700 kn, with that figure being handled. I don't think it's good to bid already speaking specifically, we don't have to speak in lipo, but we have to speak exactly in kuna, so I'm going to repeat once again that the average pension in the Republic for May 2018 is 2.553 kn and 80 l. So that's one disinformation we heard today. Therefore, what I would like to mention to Mr Jovanovic at this stage is that at this stage, pension reform refers to general regulations. And in another, future phase, it will refer to special regulations. Of course it's always moving from general to individual, so I believe you understand why it's such a sequence. And as for the second part of your question, I really didn't hear any contradictory information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89768	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89769	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, in the final presentation, you referred briefly and referred to the future Pension Act, so I am quite interested, here is the point of column I, II. I hear two ears, but I hear four versions already, not three but five. So I'm curious, obviously, that's where there's been a twist of certain thesis. It's just not clear to me specifically about the elimination of some 27% of the stimulating shifts from second to first, etc., and allegedly that II. The pole's losing something. So I'm just wondering how it's formally possible if you don't have something, what can you lose? Or you haven't had one before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89770	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89771	I would like to thank my esteemed and esteemed colleague Batinić. Thus, the three - stage form of the pension system is of course meant to continue to develop and strengthen. That's what you should say at the beginning. I'm really sorry that there's speculation in the public space or that some things are not good enough to communicate, so I'm going to try to explain it here plastically. Already now that a person acquires the right to retire, and the insurance company is from II. You know what happens then, that's when the property becomes retired, and then the mode or pension insurance company pays the pension from II. This is due to a fee of 5%, which is about 18 000 kuna on average salary in the Republic of Croatia. So that's, I don't have much time, I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89772	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a respected secretary of state, you said this was not a reform law and that Croatia needs reforms, and here I will look back at that we don't really have any reforms in Croatia, that's the European Commission's position, the EU's question of journalists, what about local self-government reform, Prime Minister Plenkovic said it was their electoral body, that HDZ has Madam Secretary spoke of reform laws and that it was their electoral body. [[Intruder Reiner: A colleague of Sladolev, we are discussing mandatory pension funds.]] I don't think reforming the pension system can be done without reforming local self-government and Prime Minister Plenkovic has publicly said that the reform of local self-government will not work because it is their electoral body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89774	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89775	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, second reading, P.Z. No. 285, the motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 1 abstentions and 24 against the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89776	We will now move to the following law, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, second reading, P.Z. No. 267 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science and Education Blaženka Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89777	I thank Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. You know that the Croatian Qualifications Framework is the most important instrument to bring the needs of the labour and education market into line, and in that sense, we think that the amendments and additions of this law are also important to us and that we have really respected all the remarks that we have received and had their basis in the first reading and I thank you all for that. As far as I am concerned, I will now briefly explain why the law has changed, which are the most important changes and of course, I will mention what changes have been made after the first reading, where the law, i.e. the proposal is presented in the Croatian Parliament. First of all, by decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia of 20.4.2016 and on the basis of a proposal for an assessment of the consent of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: My colleagues and colleagues, we can calm down a little so the minister can speak, please.]] So, in fact, the University of Zagreb has submitted a request to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality, and in this sense the Constitutional Court has responded by 2 points, it is first related to the provision of Article. 8 paragraph 1 in the section where a specialist graduate professional study is placed on the same level and does not differ from a graduate university study and in this respect it was necessary to improve that provision. What we have done has already been presented in the first reading to introduce one n of this provision, where qualifications differ according to species, which actually means that professional and university studies are different, so we can also, regardless of the level, have a difference in species and at level 7.1 as we can have at level 6. This approach avoided discrimination between students of professional studies, which would have happened if we had simply said, these are different levels, which can be achieved in university and professional studies, although the volume of learning outcomes, i.e., the volume of which is measured in ECTS points is equal. So here we distinguish species, and in this sense, between the first and second readings, that provision remains preserved, and as such we propose it to these final amendments and additions to the law. Secondly, in the Constitutional Court's decision made under the Constitutional Court's decision, it was also necessary to improve the provisions concerning access to doctoral studies, i.e. postgraduate studies in general. What is now prescribed here by amendments and additions to the law, that the curvature of accession is the possession of a previous qualification which is obtained by the completion of a graduate university study or an integrated university, pre-graduate and graduate study. What we have added here in relation to the law that we have given for the first reading, and based on the actual one, I would say very broad support and debates that were here in the Croatian Parliament, is another provision, which we have said that, except in a way that, in order to access a doctoral study, it is also necessary to have prior ownership of the qualification of a graduate professional study, that the university can be established by means of a general act, and some other different programme which then regulates this. This is of course important, because universities have autonomy in this sense. And that's the difference from the first reading. Then, one minor change is also made in Appendix A of the Law, which lists the level of learning outcomes, in a way that both university and professional graduate studies have to but also do not have to lay the foundations for scientific research, of course that is based on what we have said about the difference of species. In the first reading, there was also an addition to the law that prescribed the appointment and resolution of members of the National Council for the development of human potential. For since it is a representative body, intervention has been carried out, which will allow institutions represented in the National Council to propose a resolution of their representatives before the time to which they are appointed expires. So far, this has been possible in one of the two cases, firstly when a representative, i.e. a member of the National Council, asked for a resolution and secondly, unless he worked in accordance with the best way or so, his work was difficult for the National Council itself. I would also point out here that we have consistently implemented the use of the concept of learning outcomes in law and have aligned with the Law on Professional Education. We also laid down a provision, the law is complemented in a way that regulates the specific process of enrolling standards of interest and qualifications in the register of Croatian qualification frameworks when it comes to regulated professions. We are witnessing quite a wide discussion when it comes to the study programmes in regulated professions that are not provided for by the accompanying legislative regulations or the acceptance of them in relation to regulated professions. And in this regard, we have ensured that education and study programmes, which acquire qualifications in regulated professions, that they must get prior opinions from the central authority of the state administration responsible for a particular regulated profession. Finally, the law consistently amends the provisions relating to the recognition and evaluation of previous learning. It is also provided for the adoption of a Regulation on the recognition and evaluation of previous learning which we consider to be extremely important and related to informal learning and, therefore, to qualifications lower than level 6 that will be regulated by the Regulation, and for qualifications that are levels 6 and 7 that will be regulated by higher universities that have jurisdiction in this regard. And that last part I said was the third change that was made between the first and the second reading. Here, in this sense, I have tried to go through everything that is important in this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HKO, but also to indicate these three important changes in relation to first reading. Here I thank you in advance for all your comments regarding these amendments and additions to the HKO Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89778	Thank you very much. We have some replicas. They've already answered your first word. Let's take it in a row. First, he is a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89779	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Ministers here you spoke of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but you did not say the key. When we talk about the outcomes that are actually the measure of this bill that it is one system that is abandoned in education in Western Europe, that it is back to content, and that the outcomes as such are one system that has proved not to be good. So please comment on that, is that really so? Are the Western European countries really leaving the end, and we're getting into it, or maybe I'm wrong? Or might it be another experiment in the Croatian education system as well as many others you conduct?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89780	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89781	Thank you very much. I've answered that question a few times before. But it's good to do it one more time. Not only are learning outcomes not to be abandoned, but they are particularly apostrophe in the European Qualifications Framework and in all the communications we have on the meaning of the subject given by the European Commission. The Bologna process also in the latest meaning of the Paris communica stresses the importance of qualifications and qualifications, of course, which must be based on learning outcomes. Therefore, far from abandoning the concept. I would say that it is being strengthened and that the concept of learning outcome is now seen throughout the verticals from primary, secondary education through higher education to the evaluation of informal learning. Therefore, there is a lot of literature, as well as all the recommendations we have related to strategies not only European ones, but also broader ones are based on learning outcomes because they also enable outcome-based evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89782	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I thank you for this introduction where you are really very summed up but quite clearly sent key messages in the differences between two readings and congratulations for staying on those views that were related to the first reading where we will not have discrimination against students of professional studies. What I want to point out once again this week several times, and that is to the extent that our Croatian qualification framework allows what is its goal, which is to connect to the levels of qualifications acquired in Europe on an absurd example where one study in Croatia is not recognised, while all who have completed that study can be hired at this time, for example. at the Academy of Clinical Sciences and Laboratory Medicine in Dublin. So, it is a master's degree in medical-laboratory diagnostics, and I hope that today's debate on the Health Protection Act will also allow all the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics to find work in the Republic of Croatia and do not have to go to Ireland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89784	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89785	Thank you very much. And here we have also, as I pointed out, respected this very situation so that, in law too, we recognize the situation that in regulated professions, this is a regulated profession, there must be a preliminary opinion of the central authority of the state administration that is very competent for the proper regulated profession. This will make it possible for students and higher schools to be ready from the beginning and to know in what way and how this profession will be recognized.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89786	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89787	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in your opening presentation and level 8.2. and those changes that are also back to the first reading, and I think it is good to leave it to the universities and the possibility that our professional specialists can also access doctoral studies to translate it into such a simple dictionary and that the only problem we have left when we adopt this law is the problem in implementation, or in our heads. Namely, nomin Sunt Odios, so I don't want to talk about names but we have a situation where in competing for leading positions within the state apparatus certain individuals are refused their applications because they have a professional specialist study and it is as a basis that they can't compete for the job, which is, of course, a nonsens because some study or public administration or any one should absolutely be foreseen for that kind of work, which means that we have still a road to doing in our heads and in the heads of the one where we were stuck 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89788	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89789	Thank you very much. So two things, as far as the university's autonomy is concerned, we need to install it into this legislation so that this is now promoted in a way that allows universities to edit this matter differently, so it's everywhere in the world. And as for these other comments regarding the recognition of qualifications, I agree that we need to learn first and foremost now to read qualifications and read competences or learning outcomes, because on the basis of this we can see what the study programme provides and how it provides. So far, it has mostly been based on a certain degree or on some knowledge of what a certain university offers. This time, and it is precisely the basis of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework of Instruments that we are able to read which competences are guaranteed. Because when I say they guarantee it, it actually means that the whole system is designed to make learning outcomes worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89790	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, here I join the congratulations of my colleagues on this provision of equalising professional and university studies, and I would like to personally congratulate you for having had the courage to resist the university lobbys that have prevented this equation in recent years and thus done a huge injustice towards a large number of highly educated people in our country. And it's a big deal that's been done with this law. And I also join the appeals of colleagues before me, therefore, it is about implementation after the adoption of this Law, we have in the last year had competitions of numerous competitions precisely the bodies of public authorities, cities, counties, municipalities that have just ruled out the possibility of people who have completed a professional study to even report. I hope that your ministry will also make an effort when, after the adoption of this Law, that these procedures will be brought into line in the future and on the ground itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89792	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89793	Thank you. So, we do not distinguish professional and university studies by level, but we do distinguish them by type, and this really needs to be taken into account, which in a simplified dictionary means that in university studies we have a much greater emphasis on learning outcomes that are related to knowledge, especially academic skills, while in professional studies there is a much greater emphasis on skills and these particular skills that have their practical output, i.e. practical use right after studies already on the labour market. And as far as distinctions are concerned, these instruments are not simple. And in that sense, I agree that we should do an additional effort and our Ministry will do so on education and on the instructions that these instruments are actually being used. So, it is not only a problem in Croatia to use these instruments from the qualification frameworks but it is a topic which is also a broader European and one of three important topics and messages from the Paris Conference of Ministers is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89794	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first representative, Vesna Bedekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89795	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Minister with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal. Here are the basic issues that are covered by this Bill's proposal, which relate primarily to the adjustment of the type of qualifications at all levels, then further editing and accession of complete and partial qualifications to the levels of the Croatian qualification framework. Equally, the introduction of changes in the integration of the level of the Croatian qualification framework with levels of European qualification, but also with the qualification framework of the European higher education area. Similarly, this proposal sets out the concept of the Croatian system of general education points in vocational education and training and what has already been said, the establishment of a system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning is more clearly regulated. Therefore, information and informal learning and the adoption of a Regulation on the recognition and evaluation of previous learning shall be prescribed. Similarly, the process of enrolling standards of interest and qualifications in the Croatian Qualifications Framework Register is regulated, and the way experts outside the sectoral councils are included in the work of the sectoral councils themselves is changed. I will remind you, though that has already been the case, yet once again, of the reasons why this law is being passed. We all remember that by decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 20 April 2016, and based on the proposal for the assessment of the consent of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework from 2013 submitted by the University of Zagreb, the provision of Article 8(1) of the Law in question was abolished in that section which reads – A specialist degree study. Namely, the Constitutional Court Decision provides for the suspension of the suspended part of the provision of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework of 2013 on 30 December 2016, and therefore a legislative solution was necessary to fully comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That is, with the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which are expressed in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision itself. I would now just briefly refer to here some of the views which are expressed in the light of the relevant Constitutional Court Decision. First of all, the Constitutional Court made it clear in its argument that the contested legislative solution could be in accordance with the Constitution or constitutionally acceptable if there was an objective and reasonable justification for this, in fact allowing the legislator to determine the second level of HKO for specialised degrees and for those studies the specific conditions of accession then at a higher level of 8.1. and 8.2. HKO, but also to serve different techniques if they can achieve the same goal. And this is exactly what was proposed by using different techniques that should achieve the objective of resolving the non-compliance of part of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, while, of course, respecting the provisions of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Let me just remind you of some of the key points in this proposal. So also through, and then also in the second reading, we have a clear distinction of qualifications by type with an already existing distinction towards the level of study studies, and the possibility of certain qualifications being different by type and being associated with the same level of Croatian qualification framework, which is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation of May 2017 on a European qualification framework for lifelong learning, and then also in line with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. It is also in line with the binding law of the European Union to accommodate qualifications acquired through the completion of specialist graduate studies and university degrees and integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies at the same level. The field of recognition of professional qualifications is regulated by the European Parliament and the Council Directive 2005 and subsequently by its 2013 amendment. And this directive requires Croatia to recognise qualifications acquired in other Member States in such a way as to guarantee citizens the same rights they would have in the Member State where the qualification was acquired. What I think is also important here is the fact that the technique applied to address this issue includes, of course, a stronger integration of conditions and criteria in all the procedures of evaluation from therefore initial accreditation through thematic evaluation to re-accreditation of study programmes by joining the qualification of HKO levels, i.e. the normative design of binary systems and high education quality assurance systems in the Republic of Croatia. And I will remind myself of this very trail with the procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework that we have today in our final reading is about the procedures for amending and supplementing and other laws and regulations concerning quality assurance in the higher education system and, of course, the harmonisation of changes and additions to the regulations resulting from them, and in particular when it comes to the problem of introducing new study programmes, the evaluation of existing study programmes, the regulation of criteria for teachers, teaching activities, teaching excellences which then also material capacities, human resources that need to be met by high... which are holders and university and professional study programmes, and in such a way that the different criteria that these two different types of studies must satisfy, above all, the quality that warrants the setting of different types of studies at the same level. And, of course, following all of this, the law right at 6 accommodations of two types of qualifications, therefore, qualifications acquired by the completion of pre-graduate and pre-graduate university studies at the next level of 7.1. accommodations are acquired from specialized degrees and university graduate studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies, while at 7.2. accommodation of qualifications is obtained through completion of postgraduate specialist studies. Of course, this distinction is considered to introduce, above all, a clear distinction between different studies and to facilitate the visibility of qualifications acquired by studying and completing different studies in the Republic of Croatia. And what may also be important to note that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, amendments and additions to the law have been made to the conditions of accession of a study which acquires qualifications at 7.2. and 8.2. HKOs who meet again and with the views set out in the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision. In addition, although some few ministers have introduced and noted the conditions of access to doctoral studies with these amendments and additions, it is prescribed that the conditions of access to a doctoral study are the possession of a prior qualification which is obtained through the completion of a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study, and yet in accordance with the conditions laid down by the General Act or by some of the members of the university and, of course, by fulfilling the conditions of the established study programme of the university itself or its individual component, with the possibility that an exceptional and only university may, by means of its general act as a condition of accession, prescribes and other previously acquired qualification, of course, an appropriate university distinction programme. And what I have a special need to emphasise is, therefore, such a solution is at the same time in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, and it also respects the autonomy of the university to prescribe, exceptionally and in the defined frameworks, different conditions of access to this qualification. Of course, it should also be noted here that the introduction of these new levels reflected provisions relating to the integration of HCO levels with the level of the European qualification framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area, in a way that as well as the previously defined level 7, new levels 7.1. and 7.2. connect to the level 7 of the European Qualification Framework, i.e. with the level 2 of the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area. And briefly just some of the differences that we consider important, between the previous solution in the first reading and the final version that we have in front of us today. It is therefore appropriate to amend the provisions of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. I think that this article here is still qualitatively improved, so that here it wouldn't be too tight just to focus on the labour market, but also put here in focus and social needs in general. Article 6 that gives space to the autonomy of the university that we all agreed we shouldn't, we can't, we can't, we can't. In addition, Article 7 has been no-technically completed, a new Article 10 has been inserted in relation to first reading, which has been prescribed that sectoral councils may also appoint working groups, composed of experts outside the sectoral councils for the purposes of carrying out operations. This allows some experts outside the sectoral councils to be involved for the purpose of carrying out their jobs without necessarily establishing new working groups. In particular, I point out that Article 11 which was amended in the first reading in a way that further determines the procedure for the adoption of the standard of interest when it comes to regulated professions, I think it is very important at the moment and in the time in which we live to take account. Article 12 has been amended and it has been updated whether, as regards the rules on the recognition and evaluation of previous learning that does not apply to more than 6 levels, above the 6th level of the procedure is left to high schools, and the procedure is governed by the general acts of each higher school, which I personally consider to be a good and quality solution. Here is also the trail of what I have said, in conclusion, the Club of HDZ Representatives will support the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and I use the opportunity to thank the Minister and her associates for respecting the proposals and suggestions, both the parliamentary representatives here and all the committee members who discussed the law as their parent working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89796	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89797	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you mentioned in your opening presentation and level 8.2. and those changes that are also back to the first reading, and I think it is good to leave it to the universities and the possibility that our professional specialists can also access doctoral studies to translate it into such a simple dictionary and that the only problem we have left when we adopt this law is the problem in implementation, or in our heads. Namely, nomin Sunt Odios, so I don't want to talk about names but we have a situation where in competing for leading positions within the state apparatus certain individuals are refused their applications because they have a professional specialist study and it is as a basis that they can't compete for the job, which is, of course, a nonsens because some study or public administration or any one should absolutely be foreseen for that kind of work, which means that we have still a road to doing in our heads and in the heads of the one where we were stuck 30 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89798	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89799	Thank you very much. So two things, as far as the university's autonomy is concerned, we need to install it into this legislation so that this is now promoted in a way that allows universities to edit this matter differently, so it's everywhere in the world. And as for these other comments regarding the recognition of qualifications, I agree that we need to learn first and foremost now to read qualifications and read competences or learning outcomes, because on the basis of this we can see what the study programme provides and how it provides. So far, it has mostly been based on a certain degree or on some knowledge of what a certain university offers. This time, and it is precisely the basis of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework of Instruments that we are able to read which competences are guaranteed. Because when I say they guarantee it, it actually means that the whole system is designed to make learning outcomes worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89800	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89801	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, here I join the congratulations of my colleagues on this provision of equalising professional and university studies, and I would like to personally congratulate you for having had the courage to resist the university lobbys that have prevented this equation in recent years and thus done a huge injustice towards a large number of highly educated people in our country. And it's a big deal that's been done with this law. And I also join the appeals of colleagues before me, therefore, it is about implementation after the adoption of this Law, we have in the last year had competitions of numerous competitions precisely the bodies of public authorities, cities, counties, municipalities that have just ruled out the possibility of people who have completed a professional study to even report. I hope that your ministry will also make an effort when, after the adoption of this Law, that these procedures will be brought into line in the future and on the ground itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89802	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89803	Thank you. So, we do not distinguish professional and university studies by level, but we do distinguish them by type, and this really needs to be taken into account, which in a simplified dictionary means that in university studies we have a much greater emphasis on learning outcomes that are related to knowledge, especially academic skills, while in professional studies there is a much greater emphasis on skills and these particular skills that have their practical output, i.e. practical use right after studies already on the labour market. And as far as distinctions are concerned, these instruments are not simple. And in that sense, I agree that we should do an additional effort and our Ministry will do so on education and on the instructions that these instruments are actually being used. So, it is not only a problem in Croatia to use these instruments from the qualification frameworks but it is a topic which is also a broader European and one of three important topics and messages from the Paris Conference of Ministers is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89804	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first representative, Vesna Bedekovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89805	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Minister with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are today the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this proposal. Here are the basic issues that are covered by this Bill's proposal, which relate primarily to the adjustment of the type of qualifications at all levels, then further editing and accession of complete and partial qualifications to the levels of the Croatian qualification framework. Equally, the introduction of changes in the integration of the level of the Croatian qualification framework with levels of European qualification, but also with the qualification framework of the European higher education area. Similarly, this proposal sets out the concept of the Croatian system of general education points in vocational education and training and what has already been said, the establishment of a system of recognition and evaluation of previous learning is more clearly regulated. Therefore, information and informal learning and the adoption of a Regulation on the recognition and evaluation of previous learning shall be prescribed. Similarly, the process of enrolling standards of interest and qualifications in the Croatian Qualifications Framework Register is regulated, and the way experts outside the sectoral councils are included in the work of the sectoral councils themselves is changed. I will remind you, though that has already been the case, yet once again, of the reasons why this law is being passed. We all remember that by decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia as of 20 April 2016, and based on the proposal for the assessment of the consent of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework from 2013 submitted by the University of Zagreb, the provision of Article 8(1) of the Law in question was abolished in that section which reads – A specialist degree study. Namely, the Constitutional Court Decision provides for the suspension of the suspended part of the provision of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework of 2013 on 30 December 2016, and therefore a legislative solution was necessary to fully comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That is, with the views of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which are expressed in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision itself. I would now just briefly refer to here some of the views which are expressed in the light of the relevant Constitutional Court Decision. First of all, the Constitutional Court made it clear in its argument that the contested legislative solution could be in accordance with the Constitution or constitutionally acceptable if there was an objective and reasonable justification for this, in fact allowing the legislator to determine the second level of HKO for specialised degrees and for those studies the specific conditions of accession then at a higher level of 8.1. and 8.2. HKO, but also to serve different techniques if they can achieve the same goal. And this is exactly what was proposed by using different techniques that should achieve the objective of resolving the non-compliance of part of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, while, of course, respecting the provisions of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Let me just remind you of some of the key points in this proposal. So also through, and then also in the second reading, we have a clear distinction of qualifications by type with an already existing distinction towards the level of study studies, and the possibility of certain qualifications being different by type and being associated with the same level of Croatian qualification framework, which is in line with the Council of Europe's recommendation of May 2017 on a European qualification framework for lifelong learning, and then also in line with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. It is also in line with the binding law of the European Union to accommodate qualifications acquired through the completion of specialist graduate studies and university degrees and integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies at the same level. The field of recognition of professional qualifications is regulated by the European Parliament and the Council Directive 2005 and subsequently by its 2013 amendment. And this directive requires Croatia to recognise qualifications acquired in other Member States in such a way as to guarantee citizens the same rights they would have in the Member State where the qualification was acquired. What I think is also important here is the fact that the technique applied to address this issue includes, of course, a stronger integration of conditions and criteria in all the procedures of evaluation from therefore initial accreditation through thematic evaluation to re-accreditation of study programmes by joining the qualification of HKO levels, i.e. the normative design of binary systems and high education quality assurance systems in the Republic of Croatia. And I will remind myself of this very trail with the procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework that we have today in our final reading is about the procedures for amending and supplementing and other laws and regulations concerning quality assurance in the higher education system and, of course, the harmonisation of changes and additions to the regulations resulting from them, and in particular when it comes to the problem of introducing new study programmes, the evaluation of existing study programmes, the regulation of criteria for teachers, teaching activities, teaching excellences which then also material capacities, human resources that need to be met by high... which are holders and university and professional study programmes, and in such a way that the different criteria that these two different types of studies must satisfy, above all, the quality that warrants the setting of different types of studies at the same level. And, of course, following all of this, the law right at 6 accommodations of two types of qualifications, therefore, qualifications acquired by the completion of pre-graduate and pre-graduate university studies at the next level of 7.1. accommodations are acquired from specialized degrees and university graduate studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies, while at 7.2. accommodation of qualifications is obtained through completion of postgraduate specialist studies. Of course, this distinction is considered to introduce, above all, a clear distinction between different studies and to facilitate the visibility of qualifications acquired by studying and completing different studies in the Republic of Croatia. And what may also be important to note that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, amendments and additions to the law have been made to the conditions of accession of a study which acquires qualifications at 7.2. and 8.2. HKOs who meet again and with the views set out in the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision. In addition, although some few ministers have introduced and noted the conditions of access to doctoral studies with these amendments and additions, it is prescribed that the conditions of access to a doctoral study are the possession of a prior qualification which is obtained through the completion of a graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study, and yet in accordance with the conditions laid down by the General Act or by some of the members of the university and, of course, by fulfilling the conditions of the established study programme of the university itself or its individual component, with the possibility that an exceptional and only university may, by means of its general act as a condition of accession, prescribes and other previously acquired qualification, of course, an appropriate university distinction programme. And what I have a special need to emphasise is, therefore, such a solution is at the same time in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, and it also respects the autonomy of the university to prescribe, exceptionally and in the defined frameworks, different conditions of access to this qualification. Of course, it should also be noted here that the introduction of these new levels reflected provisions relating to the integration of HCO levels with the level of the European qualification framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area, in a way that as well as the previously defined level 7, new levels 7.1. and 7.2. connect to the level 7 of the European Qualification Framework, i.e. with the level 2 of the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area. And briefly just some of the differences that we consider important, between the previous solution in the first reading and the final version that we have in front of us today. It is therefore appropriate to amend the provisions of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 as regards the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union. I think that this article here is still qualitatively improved, so that here it wouldn't be too tight just to focus on the labour market, but also put here in focus and social needs in general. Article 6 that gives space to the autonomy of the university that we all agreed we shouldn't, we can't, we can't, we can't. In addition, Article 7 has been no-technically completed, a new Article 10 has been inserted in relation to first reading, which has been prescribed that sectoral councils may also appoint working groups, composed of experts outside the sectoral councils for the purposes of carrying out operations. This allows some experts outside the sectoral councils to be involved for the purpose of carrying out their jobs without necessarily establishing new working groups. In particular, I point out that Article 11 which was amended in the first reading in a way that further determines the procedure for the adoption of the standard of interest when it comes to regulated professions, I think it is very important at the moment and in the time in which we live to take account. Article 12 has been amended and it has been updated whether, as regards the rules on the recognition and evaluation of previous learning that does not apply to more than 6 levels, above the 6th level of the procedure is left to high schools, and the procedure is governed by the general acts of each higher school, which I personally consider to be a good and quality solution. Here is also the trail of what I have said, in conclusion, the Club of HDZ Representatives will support the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework and I use the opportunity to thank the Minister and her associates for respecting the proposals and suggestions, both the parliamentary representatives here and all the committee members who discussed the law as their parent working bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89806	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89807	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I think a lot has been said already. So what is the reason why we are here today and we are discussing in the second reading on amendments to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia from 20 April 2016, which abolished the provision of Article 8 of the Law in question, which placed the specialist professional study at the level of HKO 7. It was therefore necessary to draw up a legislative solution that would fully comply with the positions of the Constitutional Court and in this respect be introduced at the level, at the same level, of the type of qualifications, or at all levels of education. Translated, we had a vacuum in which everyone, and I think it's somewhere around 45,000 of our fellow citizens who ended up a professional specialist graduate study were nowhere. They didn't, they didn't have what they say before when we talk about these levels, they're your degrees, you know, grade six, grade seven, and that was that before. Master of Science and Doctor of Science. So more or less we all, at least those who are a little older, went to school knowing that in some educational, academic, whatever system they expect. The introduction of Bologna has, of course, changed a lot. The need to equate on the labour market so that we can not only compete on jobs, but compete in the educational institutions themselves, the conclusion, we had before this law, so before we voted on it, the situation that someone with a professional specialist study could enroll in Slovenia a doctoral study that we must recognise in Croatia according to the European acquis that we accepted by entering the EU, and we cannot enter our own country. So these are the paradoxes we have in this country, unfortunately a little bit more, but that's why it's good to change them. And these are just being introduced, when we're talking about levels here, some body can prescribe that you need a level 7 that includes 7-1, 7.2. What does that mean to you? At 7.1 the accommodation of qualifications is obtained by completing specialist, graduate professional studies and university studies, I think I have said well, yes. B. means university graduate studies and integrated pre-graduate and graduate university studies. So on 7.2 we have this unit spec to indicate, so something new before those masters of science, so they end up with postgraduate specialist studies. Someone can say 1, someone can say 7.2, someone can only say 7. But the important thing is that we have a distinction, both on the 6th, when we talk about first-graders, university, professional, and the 7th grade when we talk about professional specialists and those with university specialists. Of course 8.2 is something I asked the minister here in the replica and what's good, it is stated exactly what are the conditions of access to the doctoral study. And, of course, those general conditions must first be qualified by completing a graduate, university study or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study in accordance with the terms and conditions of the general act but leave space and universities to introduce here and all those who have completed a professional specialist study in their programme, of course, on the condition that they pass different exams in order to get what I said at the beginning, the possibility of further developing according to level 8.2. Otherwise, level 8.1 is what we've abolished, so these are the masters of science that according to the bologna no longer recognizes them. I think this is the first step, that we know exactly where we are, what we are, how we are. The second step is that our bodies recognize it as more or less as far as the competition is concerned, I have presented here an example that is within the system where it can still be different and must be well explained, the minister here well said, so when we distinguish professional from university, one goes to knowledge, the other goes with skills, we need to know what we want, where the important knowledge is academic based on which all qualifications are acquired and how they apply and where it goes to the practical part, or to the skills. And there's still a little work to be done here, but what we have to do most is on the economy, I'm not talking legislative, I'm talking about comprehensive, not specifically about this law. Because you have, and I said it the last time in my debate, you have in the U.S. colleges that people can end up not saying what we used to talk about and some shopping, etc., but with very little effort and effort, very little. You pay your tuition, you might show up here and there, but with that college, that market doesn't recognize that college, and it can be very difficult to compete with the labour market. What's the problem? The problem is that with us is the most desirable employer of states and local self-government, let's say all of it. And that's where you put one general condition, level 7. Whether she is in Croatia, whether she is in BiH, so nostrified, whether she's professional, whether she's like this or not, that's the only condition. And, of course, when we look at it and then it brings you the Constitutional Court to abolish the professional specialist of course that then we have a problem, that we stay in the vacuum. When the market dictates and ranks our colleges and universities then we will have a different story, then it will be, and it must be the universities themselves, or universities and universities themselves, to work on it, to implement their programs, to the quality of their programme. Because then it's gonna happen to you, you know what we hear is what he's from Harvard, he's with... He's from here, from there, they go anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it's not a joke. Because you know the one who ends up guaranteeing a certain level of knowledge and competence and skills where it is not so in performance and in practice and in everything else. Let's put aside the tuition and everything else as it comes to it. When the market dictates education, which is what we have dealt with by the Law on Education and Education and what the European Commission has said to connect a better education system with the market and that is what we have been working on, especially in the last year, I think that we have made light steps different from what it has been for the last 25 years, then we will be able to say that we have a quality round and educational system. Because as long as they're all on our diploma paper the same and they're never the same, two brothers aren't the same, born of the same mother, let alone two graduates, two colleges the same, it's normal, as long as the market doesn't recognise first, because apparently the state administration and local self-government have no mechanisms because they can't discriminate because they say look, this college is a little worse, it's better, I'm not going to admit you, then it would be a scandal and it's so okay. But when he's our most desirable employer of a particular company, the market just for the sake of pay, then it's gonna matter what kind of program you were, where you graduated from college, and how you finished it, and not just the paper that some later on, they used to say what they could do with it. There's our goal and that's our long-term goal, this is one wheel, one step in it. And it takes a lot of stairs like this, you don't have to say and yes, you're here now, I don't know in a year, what is one, two things, nothing was done. Well, you can't do something in a year that some democracies have been doing for 50 years, they've been building for 100 years. We learn from their mistakes, we go quickly but we go slowly and safely. Don't jump safely because there were a lot of shortcuts here that eventually didn't lead anywhere. Instead of being led to the goal, they take you in the wrong direction. In conclusion, as far as these changes are concerned, I won't repeat myself, my colleague has very well-secured the first reading, and I think it's very good that all the remarks are respected. If I were to apostrophe this part one more time on the terms of access to the doctor's study. So, I think we absolutely need to recognize and need them and the market, and then we, as a state administration and local self-government, recognize both the skills and competences and knowledge that our students, or in the extreme line of young people, get through their education and absolutely use it to grow the economy and to connect that market and economy. Of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89808	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89809	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. At first, I would like to stress that the SDP club will support this law because we believe that even between the two readings it is even more of a quality than it was at first reading and thus commending the ministers and associates for having respected the good proposals that came from this assembly and the Assembly Committee. In my debate, I will briefly remind you once again, perhaps it does not even work for us here because we have talked about this for the last time, perhaps for those who see us as important and what is actually HKO as one of the key reform instruments that regulates the entire system of qualifications at all levels of education in the Republic and through the standard of qualifications based on learning outcomes and harmonised is, which I especially stress with the needs of the labour market, individuals and our society as a whole. HKO is a framework in which every qualification acquired in Croatia has its place and the learning outcomes are at the heart. So the competences acquired by learning and proving after the learning process while what is now new, the learning process itself is not crucial since the outcome of learning has been verified. Each qualification acquired in the Republic of Croatia is defined according to the level of learning outcomes that belong to that qualification. Why does it matter? Setting qualifications to a certain level allows qualifications to be compared and connected to each other. In addition, amongst qualifications acquired in Croatia, qualified qualifications at a certain level enables the integration of qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia with levels of the European qualification framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area, which means that it allows and recognise qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia on the Croatian and European labour market, and about an absurd which is a burning problem in Croatia I spoke in the replica of Minister Divjak, I will talk about it in an individual, and I will repeat persistently until the problem of the medical laboratory diagnostics master is resolved because it is really absurd that highly educated people who have acquired a degree in Croatia cannot work at the same time in Croatia, although they are closing health laboratories throughout Croatia because there is no expert staff and at the same time I don't know why or I might know but I don't like it to be true that it is true, a monopoly of medical and biochemical engineers who come from the Faculty of Pharmacy, which is not a good time, which is not always necessary in the descriptive measure. Since these amendments to the law between the two readings are the outcomes of learning, and not the process to which these outcomes occur, HKO provides the basis for the development of the evaluation of previous learning or gives the basis for the recognition and evaluation of the outcome of informal and informal learning, with the mandatory introduction of a quality assurance system and a clearly prescribed quality check procedure, which is further improved between the two readings in the proposal that we have received. HKO standards of qualifications are introduced while the same qualification can be obtained at different educational institutions, through different educational programmes there are certain standards in terms of the prescribed learning outcomes that all qualifications must have. In addition to qualifications standards, a standard of profession is introduced. This is a document which clearly shows the competences needed for a particular profession. The qualification standard shall be developed on the basis of a clearly prescribed methodology and data collected to identify and analyse the competences necessary for a particular occupation. Therefore, the ultimate objective of this process is to ensure the quality and relevance of the educational offer, i.e. to develop such quality educational programmes that meet the needs of the labour market and ultimately lead to greater employability of the quality of the workforce. I think that's crucial, so that's what we keep pointing out that in our schools, which, as the minister points out, are schools for life and not for grades, we create an assumption of greater employability and quality of our workforce. I'm always saying that, I'm going to say it again today, so everyone who follows us would understand what HKO is, so that's the system that we can most easily describe to think of as a closet that has 8 but actually 11 drawers so that every qualification and every learning outcome can be placed in one of these drawers, every student, his parent who chooses this day which school, who will open that drawer, and see what he will gain after completing his education, what competences he will have and what he will be able to do. And we also see by opening that drawer what the education system offers and what may need to be changed in order to get a better job for the schooled after completing its education with this acquired qualification and competence. What is important to stress, therefore, is that this final solution has achieved the equality of students from professional and university studies because it requires Europe to do so, and I am pleased that a solution has been found that did not completely prevent the best students who come from the studies that, in accordance with the autonomy of the university and with the decision of the university, they are allowed to pass different exams, the possibility of completing and doctorate, given that our students of professional studies can finish their doctorate in Slovenia. Why would we go to Slovenia? Why in Croatia, too, could not make it possible for those best, and I will remind you that of the entire population of students who are starting, doctoral studies only end 3%, so if we still go to those who are in professional studies, that number of students are probably the most likely to decide on a doctoral study, it will hardly be more than a few hundred but it will be the best, best and I think they should be able to complete doctorate in the Republic of Croatia. I am pleased that these amendments also highlight the task of regulated professions with which we have a lot of problems in Croatia and that this proposal will help address this problem in the future. Of course, all of this is very important in the preparation of the new Act on Scientific Activity, Higher Education, the Law on Quality Insurance in Science and Higher Education, as well as all initial accreditation and recreditation procedures in order to ensure that the quality of education at all levels in Croatia is such that we are sure that everyone who goes out with their diplomas has competences that ensure quality, employability and success in their work. The SDP club supports this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89810	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89811	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Minister. The Croatian qualification framework is today a topic. I've already said in that little replica about the outcomes that I think and I know, you said the opposite, quite confidently, and just because you were confident doesn't mean you were telling the truth. I will continue to confirm that the outcomes of the system in the abandoning education have proved to be a system that is not good, a system that is not good. And sooner or later it will prove that that system that has no content, in which learning is not a plan and a program that is not good, and you know it, but well, you are actually not in the interest of it being right, but to be simple. And because your colleague Jovanovic supports you, he speaks a lot about the quality of what you do. And here we're going to have to do a little bit of connecting this law on the Croatian qualification framework to that, to you so dearly reforming the curicula or as you say the curicula, because these are two documents that are very well connected and you know it. But what's interesting here is how you and this law and the reform of the curricula use exclusively as a PR to yourself, the PR strangers that you de jure are not a member, but defacto is. It's an interesting thing that I've noticed these days, a few times I've heard it, when you hear it a few times then it's really quite common, on the radio stations there's a commercial for curricula reform, or as you've somehow called it a turn of life, you've already found a nice name, and I don't know exactly what it's called. And it says that this is paid by means of EU funds, which are again our funds because Croatia has paid money in the EU, and partly by budgets. I wonder if you'll pay for this bill maybe? Is it possible that the proposer of the next cable bill will pay for the bill? Either we had a pension fund law, so we're going to have a commercial for that law, or you're the only one who has the exclusive right to use state money, budget money to promote who, what, yourself actually. So your project, the reform of the curricula that you forced into the hrvat. Schools and then you shoot, not just commercials sound on radio stations, but you even have cartoons that someone has made again, of course paid for by government money again. Is it all expensive to prepare that you might be running for the president of the Republic of Croatia in front of the CNS, and then there's the CNS, or you're certainly using that money for those purposes or maybe something else or simply to dig up HNS from the bottom of the political popularity, again with the budget money, I don't know what it's about. I don't know what this is about, but you probably do. And when we talk about the Croatian Qualifications Framework and the reform of the curricula that has been badly assessed above all by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, but also by the other evaluators who have evaluated you, I have asked this question several times, I will ask you whenever I see you, will you apply in the same way in Croatian education and in the curicula and in the qualification framework as you have applied to the selection of staff in your ministry, and then people who were best at the competition, like colleagues Glunčić, the best in the competition, and you get rid of it by political influence. Because it may have bothered you that you can't use this budget money to advertise individuals' laws, which is really funny. Then even drinking champagne at the ministry when a colleague leaves the ministry, celebrating that there was no more of that man who was causing problems and who was the best, he was the best. And just because he was the best, he left you, because that's who they are, that's what you get. And how much does this experiment have to do with this curricula law funny, and that's how much it's done on the back of the experiment on our children I'm going to emphasize, telling the fact that the education of educators is being done, and then now these professors who, of course, are forced, by the decision of the directors of these schools, the same way as the test rabbits came into that curricula reform, they're now being educated online, so what kind of education is that? Because someone over a skype is being educated today about a sensitive thing? I think it's totally unacceptable. But I've already told you, and I'm going to repeat everything that's going on right now, that disaster will be seen sooner or later. Fortunately for you, you will no longer be where you are, you will not be the President of the Republic and not be the money you spend budgetally in marketing will help the party you represent fall off the political bottom, but it will happen from the impertinent one, that your test rabbits, which are Croatian children, Croatian students, will suffer. And then this whole curricula reform thing that she started at the time of SDP education is bad, we have bad experts. Well, my men, our experts are wanted wherever we turn. Well, you, too, have been trained in the Croatian education system, so consider yourself a good expert in your field. Well, she didn't need reform, because you were able to study, and the reform only needs to be done for the sake of the reform. And here he would pull a small parallel, there was no Minister Pavic here, about one key law, and about what you've already said twice, and in fact everything has already been said, you've come here anyway. Again the reason is that, you need the PR you need light cameras, you need light cameras, you need to see yourself, to hear yourself, to get as much attention as possible, to help the political option you represent. In short, regardless of the testimony that comes out, no parents' names, no gender or gender. Regardless of the records that are unnecessary, and you send them to schools, to give transgenders a testimony to that sex that they are, exclusively to provoke the entire public a little bit, to a little age P.R. This system will survive. He'll survive whatever hard work you're doing. And you'll have to find some new niche for your political marketing soon, for your P.R. And I'm curious maybe for the end, we're one question, since it happened here about how students have become equal, I don't mind the equality of students with both high school and university, but are you prepared for constitutional action, those who aren't satisfied, whether or not you've agreed with constitutional judges regarding HKO, because the constitutional suit will happen. And I want to know if you're going to cry like you're sneezing right now or if you're going to be a little bit more serious when the constitutional lawsuit happens, and it's going to happen, you know that. Because you've thrown this too, in a way that you haven't sat people at the same table that you didn't insist on agreeing, but you've done it on your own,... In short, I am personally, and my party HRAST always has content, not just outcomes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it wasn't just qualifications that mattered, it was what the student had to learn. I believe that there are topics in the Croatian education system that must be learned, content that students must know. And not to say in the end, so it's important that the student who got out of school is just a good man, that he's noble and that he's capable of doing something. No matter what a carpenter doesn't need, he has to be familiar with Krleža, the same thing as you who are a physicist, a mathematician doesn't need, it's nice to be written and it's nice to know how to write without any grammatical errors. In short, Minister, I think I've made myself clear, and you try, if you're already spending budget money on your P.R. to do it in a slightly wiser way because this is very obvious and distracting Croatian citizens. The reform of the caracule should not be advertised and paid for by public money, the money of Croatian citizens who live very modestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89812	Thank you. Your exposure caused a series of replicas, let's start from the beginning, is the first respected representative of Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89813	Thank you very much. I could've picked up a plate of violations of the Rules of Procedure, considering one of my fellow schoolmates' chaoticly confused speeches as if he weren't a school professor. But no wonder, the other day I met some of his students, who said that when they saw him, they went to the other side of the road, that's what a man is, and that's what a teacher is. You have shown in your debate that you do not understand anything, that you do not understand what the Croatian Qualifications Framework is, that you do not understand, what the outcomes are, you do not understand what the contents are, so I don't even know how you managed to finish college at all, but I know how you taught at school, where your students told me. Therefore, my commendation to the minister will always be when she does a good job, just as she will experience criticism when she does something that is not good, and the job she did with the Croatian Qualifications Framework is a great job, a job that started in 2006 and worked on 5 different governments, which shows that in Croatia can be done without demagogy, as you do today, and otherwise in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89814	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89815	Dear colleague Jovanovic, it's nice to go home and then lie with it. Fantasticly, first I find it fantastic that you are defending Minister Divjak, but let's say, Hrvoje Zekanovic graduated first in his generation, he was elected several years in a row from the school where he worked for the best professor, from his students. For the best professor, which you're not or will be, because you've been funny, you've been a clown, a puppet, and that's what you are now and what you've done in the ministry, what you've done in the ministry, so no one can take care of it. The only one who can go for you, your feet, is Minister Divaj, because he does equal work, and go ad homenat in such a way, funny, how you go, professionally try to discredit me, Mr. Jovanovic, I am an expert in my work, I was and I am and the results speak for me, and they speak for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89816	Guys, it's not appropriate to go ad-hominem, it's not appropriate for someone to say he's funny, I'm asking you to get it out of each other's communications. ... We're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89817	The SDP forum tells Zekanovic not to be a good professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89818	We're not in kindergarten, he started it, he didn't start it, I mean, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89819	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, violation of the Rules of Procedure. The 238th demeaning of the MPs, the insulting speech of my colleagues, who attacked me in his debate, and I did not, I quoted what the disciples were saying, to whom he taught. Therefore, what he said best shows what kind of educational worker his colleague Zekanovic is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89820	Okay. I'm begging you to stop doing that, let's be on one level all together.../The intruder is not heard. Oh, here, I'll allow you. I estimate he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89821	This Regulation shall enter into force on the I just responded with a replica, and now I'm going to answer you through a breach of the Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Jovanovic, I won't, so I don't abuse. [[Intruder Reiner: Al do not abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here, I'm running out of time. The way you communicate, but name, x, y, you too are judged by many people and your work as bad work and bad work. As a politician. And I never said anything about you as an expert, and you dared me and my profession and my work characterized it with lies, of course. And what else are you going to do?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89822	I estimate that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you all together for the dignity of you personally, and then all the way home, let's not go ad-hominem, let's not communicate here, because believe me, no one gets it, we're just all losing sight of the public together. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89823	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Zekanovic, I don't know where to go, but come on, best from the beginning. You said that Ridicle or the Ridicularum, right? Excuse me, curicula or curicula. I don't know if you can make a deal, I see here your colleague's statements... The one you mentioned when you were talking about the famous... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the tests and his qualifications why it was so badly done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that man should no longer work for a day in the public service, only because of such a statement. Well, then he said that the cause of the bad results, I quote, obviously it's not a curricula. Look out, he said curiculum. And you didn't teach him, and he'd be leading you something you think he didn't say right. So much for that. As regards EU technical support. So when the EU gives you a billion kuna, it costs four years and then this minister, this government and this HNS, if you will, allow it to be spent, they require visibility to be seen, to increase visibility right through... Or 100 million if you want to just carry out experimental curricula reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what they're They're funding because they want people to know that they're funding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89824	Thank you. Dear Representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89825	My dear colleague, you've read well, my colleague Gluncic said the curicula. That's right. And that's exactly what I'm saying. Curiculus is the latin word curiculum. That's exactly what my colleague Glancic said. I don't know what your problem is, I think you didn't get to know him obviously. Read a little bit there, increase your font a little bit on your computer, and you'll see better. And as for the EU fund's money, so the minister came recently. The money was also withdrawn by Minister Šustar and Minister Barisic, it was a long, long time ago, but no one thought that money was used for advertising...... Hey, buddy, I wasn't saying anything to you either, so don't say it to me. [[You can't hear it.]] To be used for what? For the PR, for the advertising of curricula reform, so we're going to shoot commercials, we're going to play through all possible portals, wherever we can, with all possible radio stations, that people know that curricula reform or curicula is coming up, I apologize to the minister, we have to use Latin words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89826	Thank you, the next replica is the respected representative, Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89827	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Zekanovic, we also testify through your debate, you may not have devoted 10% of your debates to the topic You took advantage of the opportunity to turn on the microphone. ... [[Intruder Reiner: Microphone, colleagues Batinić.]] It's working. And the light doesn't work. [[It works, but it doesn't shine. Okay.]] And now, so he needs to be squeezed. So you're very short, maybe a minute and a half, two of you are talking about the measure of things, and the other you've been using the debate exactly ad-hominem what you're suggesting is someone else, a colleague of Jovanovic or whoever's already been doing it, you've been doing ministers. HNS is a liberal party and exactly the trust the minister received from the HNS and finally from the government and from the coalition partners is talking about our width. I can't help you with that. I can't see your width, actually I know what it's like, it knows the public. The fact is, the old saying says, failure will forgive you, success never. And the cure for your jealousy or envy, my colleague Zekanovic's three words, education, education, education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89828	The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89829	Dear colleague, you have just now turned your back on the topic through your replica and you did not mention the Croatian qualification framework through the replica. And then now I don't understand it very little. So, I'm not supposed to go a little bit off the subject through an individual debate, and connect, talk about education, talk about the minister, talk about human policy, what's all the logic, when we talk about it? I'm not talking about the next cable bill, I'm talking about now. And through the replica, you have the right to do so. Me at the end of the parole, education, education, education. And I'll say it like this, PR, PR, PR.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89830	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, fellow MPs. I'm not going to deal with these bickerings, but I'm going to refer to one thing you mentioned, or one Mr. Zekanovic, and that's my colleague Gluncic. So this man was really thrown out by a media ring like I don't remember in this country's history. That's something to say. Unfortunately, we have a lot of it here, and very little in the media has come up with stories about its results. Here, I'll just point it out. So projects, scientific centres of excellence that stood for two years until he started, with my little help, 380 million kunas. Scientific infrastructure, 760 million kuna. Four major projects, one of which is the reconstruction of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. So, this man, if someone has made some step in our science regarding projects and withdrawing money from the EU, that's colleague Gluncic, I say with my little help and I think it's something very rare to mention and what should be stressed. And I think it's definitely something to be commended, his work and it needs to be emphasized here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89832	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89833	So, fellow Sokol, and perhaps students from the Forum of Young SDP speak ill of him and that he is a bad lecturer. Comrade Sokol, I'm extremely glad that you've gotten up in front of HDZ and we've had the courage to say what you said and I'm sure that both your colleagues and your friend Glancic will be glad you got the courage to say what you said. And if there's a debate, I'll be happy to buy you a drink because you've told me what's in my heart and all those who know Mr. Glancic and know that he's a great expert in his field and that he's been chosen as the best expert in the competition but he's been replaced by politics and if that's the message we're going to give the kids we're going to educate, then we're not writing well. So it's a great man, a great expert who's been prosecuted by the media, and that's why he's gone. And good for him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89834	The next replica is the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Zekanovic, I really won't get into the deepening of this debate, I have one specific question. I tried to sort of figure out from your discussion and it seemed to me that it was really, don't be angry, but the debate was pretty messed up and you were jumping off the topic, I guess in the heat of your desire to say as much. In particular, if I understand you correctly, you are not an advocate for professional and university studies to be equally equal and placed on the same level. That's how I realized it because you mentioned constitutional lawsuits and everything that might happen afterwards. If you are not an advocate of this, you were a member of the Council of Governors in Sibenik, how would you explain this attitude to the students and employees of the University of Sibenik, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, when you returned to Sibenik?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89836	Thank you, the answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89837	My fellow Members, you have characterized my debate as a hill-wrestle, and I will characterize yours as tenent because look at your colleagues, feel free to laugh together with Minister Divjak, look at the video, you have it online, I did not say that I am against the equality of Croatian students, but I said that I am for it. And if you haven't heard, you haven't listened, that's your problem, colleague, I said I'm in. I asked the Minister if she was ready to press charges? You know the universities are very angry. I didn't side with the university to get along and I said I was glad for equality, yes. And I was a member of the board of directors, a volunteer in Sibenik and Minister Divjak, although I still have 2 years of office, thank you Minister for that and you hired your HNS to get 2000 kn from the Croatian budget and that's fine, Minister. It's a great honor and it's done. And that's what it means if we can get the volunteers out of here, let's get him out of here, whoever's working for free and pay for our friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89838	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89839	Dear colleague Zekanovic. I have one question, you've probably noticed in the past few days that there are promotional videos in the media where universities advertise that they have 3.4 universities in their composition and that they're among the best. And this is also a question for the minister, did she notice, if she reacted, when she reacted, if she didn't respond, why didn't she react? Here to be clear, there are people among us who work in high schools who care about the same thing. As far as I know, a nurse and a technician can't operate on someone's heart, right, and here some people from their known reasons, meaning interesting, all equalizing, you know. Well, gentlemen, that's why we're where we are. So, turn on a little bit more sense and stick to some things because you're just being ridiculous... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89840	Thank you. The answer of a respected colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89841	Dear colleague Lovrinović, that's one thing... the question I will say, unfortunately Croatia has fewer and fewer students and therefore fewer and fewer students and it is logical that soon there will be a struggle on life and death around each student because simply many universities and universities will not be able to find students for their needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am personally very pleased that there is a high school in my Sibenik and I was a great lobbyist at the university and I will be as much as I can continue. However, I agree that there is always some distinction to be made, but I am also for equality. But here's one question that's legitimate of yours and I'd like to hear a little comment from the minister that she's finally showing herself here, saying whose side she's on, and here's the thing that I'd like to hear the minister say whose side she's on. Is he on each other's side? Or she retreated and said it wasn't me, that's what the others were making up the law, so the Constitutional Court will sort it out anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89842	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, what I said before, this law is a very specific law. It is specific that he started working on it in 2006, which was done by five different governments of the Republic of Croatia and that everything that had been done before in each government was further upgraded without the start of a new history with each new minister. So this is one of the few examples where the profession was appreciated and where a proposal is based on the profession that we have today in this version. Otherwise, more information may mean something to someone, people who have started working on HKO today are prominent lecturers across Europe, where they explain on the basis of experiences from Croatia how to make quality qualifications frameworks and how to implement them in individual Member States so that all those who finish their education have as much employability as possible. I responded in an individual debate because I wanted to highlight a problem and it seems to me that exactly our debate on HKO is a good example of how HKO can increase the employability of Croatian citizens but, unfortunately, in this case, this employability has been increased in the EU and is not in Croatia. So we heard that HKO among other things represents linking the level to qualifications acquired in the Republic of Croatia with the European Qualifications Framework, with the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area, which means that our qualifications are recognised on both the Croatian and European labour markets, that is also in line with the directives, so you and in the light of the legislative proposal, you have an indication of Directive 2005/36 2013/55 which points out that for example. in the Republic of Croatia, the recognition of qualifications acquired in other Member States in such a way as to ensure that citizens have the same right in the Member State where the qualification is acquired. And now we have one absurd that the degree acquired in Croatia by those citizens who acquired their diploma in Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have greater rights, for example. in Ireland and what they have in their home country where they won that degree at the university, which was financed by, of course, the state budget, and a large part of them were co-financed and paid by their parents. In order not to repeat this in the future, it is crucial that today the minister said that the proposal highlights a special part that will refer to regulated professions, but we have a problem that exists now and will not solve that part of the amended HKO Act. So, of course, it's about 300 so far. A master’s degree in medical laboratory diagnostics in Osijek and Rijeka and whose study has been initiated in accordance with all the procedures that exist. So nowhere, it is incorrectly complete when it is said that this study is launched without verifying the need for health care as the need for educational staff in the field of medical laboratory diagnostics is evident and at the level of the most basic health care that is guaranteed in Croatia by the Constitution. In addition, in the National Health Development Strategy 2012, I quote: "In terms of education standards and vertical and horizontal educational mobility for the activities of sanitary engineering, health radiological, technological activities, the activities of working therapy, the activities of medical laboratory diagnostics in the Republic of Croatia have significant deviations in relation to EU countries. Because of insufficiently developed and inaccessible formal higher education, scientific staff shall upgrade their competences through informal and informative forms of education or for additional knowledge and skills go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. After that, together with the Croatian Chamber of Health Professionals, this will mean being a central state body to be discussed with in the future, for example. When it comes to the profession of health care professionals, he participated with the university in the design of the curricula and the programme all according to the guidelines of the top European organisation, the European Association of Health Professionals whose full membership since 2013 and in all official documents points out that medical laboratory diagnostics represent a profession whose primary standard represents only the first cycle of the Bologna process and that progress towards higher levels is a master’s and doctoral part of the education of medical laboratory diagnostics.” So I could still talk about this subject now, but I don't want to burden you, because I think I also showed with these few quotes that the study of the medical laboratory diagnostics professors is in line with the needs of the Croatian healthcare system and that this debate today, as well as the debate on the Health Protection Act, will be held on Thursday where medical laboratory diagnostics are also being talked about, needs a path that will solve the problem of the medical laboratory diagnostics magistrates and allow them to start working in Croatia as they are now closing laboratories throughout Croatia because there are no employees in the field of medical laboratory diagnostic diagnostics as soon as possible. So only medical biochemistry engineers are educated, which is a narrow area of one covered by medical laboratory diagnostics. And as I was saying in the reply to Madam Secretary, part of those colleagues as soon as they checked into Ireland in Dublin, were immediately invited to come to work. Therefore, this is a literal example of everyday life where HKO shows that HKO works, is successful in European space and the labour market while at the same time not allowing our people, our citizens who have finished our university to be recognizable on the Croatian labour market. But given that we have before us amendments to the health care law, the Health Activity Act is an opportunity to correct it and I hope that support this assembly in solving the problems of these young people who have completed their colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89844	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89845	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jovanovic, you have well diagnosed the problem, which I agree is the inconsistencies of our education system and the labour market. However, there should be some precision. For example, I don't think that the creation of a whole new system with sectoral councils and their working groups will then determine for every detail what qualifications will be called and what will include, etc., that it will solve all our problems. You basically have two levels, so one level is private employers. They will hire whoever they want according to the assessment means, according to their knowledge of studies, supplements, diplomas, etc. They're not that big a problem, they know their priorities. What is our problem, however, is the state. So let's just say that since the Bologna reform you've had the situation that instead of backalaureus being able to get a three-year job, you've de facto led to the situation because of the state primarily that you're only 5 years old, so you can only actually get a job with a master's degree and so we've extended your studies from 4 to 5. And then we have an example of how the state didn't actually coordinate its education policy and its labour market policy and some ministers were boasting that they increased the number of highly educated by calculating all bacalaureus that couldn't get a job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89846	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89847	Here's my colleague Sokol and the two of us to get along sometime. So I agree with everything you've said and HKO is one of the ways to overcome these problems. It is clear, then, that we have experienced a kind of breakdown because the primary goal that was associated with the bologna is that in the short term we get competent people who will start working in the economy. But all of this, instead of going from four to three, has now extended to five years. And I think it's one of the tasks that during this HKO period should have the primary task that even seniors can find their jobs without having to enroll for another two years. And that this enrollment isn't just a result of the grampability of certain higher schools that thus achieve greater profits which should not be their primary task.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89848	The next individual debate is the respected representative Vesna Bedeković, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a esteemed colleague and colleagues, I'm sorry there's so little of us, but that's probably the usual situation when we're discussing topics and topics that are generally related to education, especially for higher education and science. I would use my 10 minutes and say a few words about a single light that casts this law into an area that has been defined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is the development and empowerment of a binary model of higher education, and it seems to me that the provisions of this law that we have today in the final proposal greatly contribute to the exactly empowerment of the binary model that we started there in 2000, meaning about 18, 20 years ago. When we talk about a binary model, then we'll just remind ourselves that it's about both development, support, strengthening, developing professional and university studies, and I think that's good. And we in this intention to develop our own Croatian binary model in Croatia had one trend somewhere in '99. '98. In 2000, I will say further, under the principle of politic access to higher education development throughout Croatia, higher schools and universities, state schools, which I think is just as good. The main intention was to contribute directly to the development of a local environment in which they are, the type of such higher universities was established and so today we have universities I don't know if we start from Slavonia to SB, Vukovar, here towards Požega and Virovitica, Karlovac, Gospić, Knin, Rijeka, Čakovec, if I skipped someone. In addition, we had a trend that went in parallel, so with the establishment of state or public, the establishment of private universities and private schools that were all up to one figure that at some point was 47 in total if I wasn't wrong in Croatia, perhaps worse down, I'm talking to you now, that's what I can remember at this point, and it's at some point grown into a trend that was increasingly difficult to control, primarily because, with the possibility of establishing a university, high schools all over Croatia, which I again think is good, at the same time we didn't provide quality mechanisms, we didn't develop them. We know that we passed the Quality Insurance Act in 2009 if I'm not mistaken and that was the gap of those 10 years where we really didn't have clear criteria by which, I'm going to be very honest and open and say that we didn't have the number of those higher universities in the smaller environments being founded by maltene political decrees and by the political will of the local communities, I think it's good that politics helps develop, but I think we did not have a failure because we didn't have clear quality criteria to achieve in order for such an institution to be established. An additional problem, and I understand the universities here because we also have professional studies at universities, with years of age, we have lost the difference in universities, not everywhere, but in a number of cases, between professional and university studies. Equally because of the fact that we didn't have secured quality mechanisms. And I dare say that today, of course later, the Agency for Science and Higher Education through the re-accreditation process, initial accreditation, new study programmes, how much order has been made out there since 2012, 2013 seems to me that the first procedures have started, okay. There's still a lot to work on. And today we have another trend that seems to be a little bit oozing at a small door, and this is the trend of the vengeful establishment of desire, intention and intention to start a university and grow up some universities in universities, and here we now have a trend in action that we will need to be able to control, and I remind ourselves that it is very necessary to keep an eye on, and that is what we are doing at the HKO Law just by setting up levels and introducing a programme of divergence towards species, we need to take care and remember what is a product of professional, and what university studies. The product of professional studies, therefore competences, knowledge and all that comes out of them, is therefore the output result of the knowledge and skills that enable the entry directly into the labour market. While university studies have a greater focus on academic knowledge and opportunities, of course, besides entering the labour market, dealing with academic careers, and in this sense we should take great care to place professional studies in their place in the future, so that we can distinguish them by species rather than by level. To ensure through changes and additions to the Quality Act, quality, good and valid mechanisms to maintain the level of their quality and not only the quality of professional studies, but also university studies, just so that we can ensure that the output result that will allow our young people to competently enter the labour market, because when we think about it, if we're real, because we're doing so all the time, shooting, we are against, that professional university studies are at the same level. They're one for, the other are against, so we have arguments like this, and all the time it seems to me like I'm trying to understand the universities that try to keep the monopoly, trying to understand the high schools and high schools that are looking for their place under the sun. Somehow, it seems to me that we should all use as much reason as possible to think about the future and what is ahead of us. It seems somehow to me that we should take care of what our labour market is telling us now and what messages it is sending us, because somehow it seems to me that the time is coming, when it will be less important, where you have studied, the way the professional student has been in, whether you have completed a professional course, whether you have completed a university study, it seems to me that more than you know, what you can do, what your competences are, and what your qualifications are, guaranteeing you, competently effective work in your future workplace. The employer won't ask you much, where you've finished and where you've come from, but now, not that he won't, but now he's asking you what you do, what your competences are, and young people are expected to immediately start dealing with the problems of jobs that they expect them to do and to immediately carry out their tasks of competence and quality. I think we should take more care of this than stick to the discussions about which study is more valuable, which is more important, which is better. So it seems to me that we should all get on the ball a little bit together and call things a real name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89850	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89851	Thank you, Vice President. Very short, a few things just, maybe even sum up some more things that haven't arrived in the replica mentioned. It is very simple, today we place at level 7 all those specialist specialists, equating them there in view of the number of points they have received, given the skills they have acquired, we do everything in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, i.e. the legal uncertainty that was given this law is removed. When it was said that constitutional lawsuits could occur, we know that universities gathered around this issue and made common conclusions, but I'm afraid we missed out here absolutely, and I said something about the way it works. Here may be the story of keeping the monopoly on a high-tech cookbook, because we know, and I already said, that as a condition for employment in the state service and in local self-government, it takes a highly professional ready and now irrelevant which. Some legal, economic, university, professional, specialist, etc., etc. But here, you have to have paper. Who can give you that paper is acceptable, that is, interesting as a university, that is, college and all of a sudden we get some... The university, so we're getting some professional studies, and now that monopoly might not be what it was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And instead, I've already said, to move on to the quality of the program, unlike what is offered, if we talk about either knowledge or skills, one and the other, no one says, and yet we have a college within the university that provides quality and excellent professional programs, for professional studies, specialist or undergraduate. And here we need to look for that distinction, to see here already, from which college is acquired, which it is worth, which it means, and not to ensure that only high-level professional equipment, such as the state service would recommend, that is, can have a university only, that is, a university, and not... Of course, we have to cope with this mess and the explosion, we've got, a lot of high-level or more educated personnel, a lot of high school open, we have to figure it out, but... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't write it down by law, one point is one point, equally valuable, no matter where bankruptcy is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what that point gives you, that's what you got with it, that's what needs to be all the difference, in quality, in the implementation program. That's why there's no need to be afraid of any constitutional lawsuits, and I think this is absolutely consistent, as in the case itself, the Constitutional Court has recommended, and everything else is actually going in that direction. And there's a colleague of Zekanovic's there, he was saying something against technology in education, educators, you mentioned, so according to your proposal we should increase the costs and send them, by means of travel costs to come to education, to do this ex-catedra, not to use technology, but as it was 30 years ago I guess. And then it's okay to spend money, I guess, I don't really understand that system, if it's equally quality we can... I don't see why he uses that day wherever possible, I'm talking about smart plates, pills, everywhere, and we're going back for those who need to teach on those smart plates, tablets, however they should come and write on paper to ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I think, in conclusion, we have now touched everything, when we talk about the subject, of course it's important and that it looks at us and not only 45,000 those who have a degree, but also those who attend, and that absolutely this is something that should have been done and I regret maybe what hasn't been done before, but we have absolutely made every effort to make it the sooner the debate in the Parliament and the first reading and the second reading and to move those people with those diplomas to win the labour market and to recognize them, it will be the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89852	Thank you, for your presentation we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89853	A fellow Curaj, a replica related to a potential lawsuit by the Constitutional Court. So this Constitutional Court lawsuit was also not meant to help students. They're not at the centre of that lawsuit, the students and their rights. At the heart of the lawsuit were some particular interests of narrow groups and their personal earnings and profits. So HKO is precisely a man, student, student, his employability and relationship of education with the labour market. That's HKO's goal. And those who press constitutional charges against and the previous version and announce against this version do not work in the interest of Croatia, the citizens of Croatia, but in their narrow personal interest. And that's the saddest thing in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89854	The answer of my colleague Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89855	Here I thank my colleague Jovanovic, I think that we have generally said the same things with two different discourses or that we are on the same track because we put on a future worker, now a student or someone who ended up as soon as possible and in an equal relationship with others is the goal, it must be the goal of every state, every administration and everything else as you yourself have said leads to other part-time interests that really have no place in education or tomorrow or in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89856	The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89857	My dear colleague, you noticed that I said that it was not an e-education, i.e. online education good for a highly sensitive area and it concerns our children. And it really isn't, I mean it. We could have this session on-line, too. So I pulled out of Sibenik, a colleague from Imotsky, I don't know where you came from. So you came here to sit down so we can talk live because that's better, that's better. And when we talk about our kids, now we're gonna educate and... It's over the skype. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, I would really, if we had money for those commercials, if the curricula were advertised, I would find, I would reroute that money, I wouldn't advertise the curricula, but I would reroute that money so that I could have a nice time with my educator looking into my eyes and learning so that kids could educate us as God commands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89858	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89859	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Zekanovic, of course it's not just that kind of education, but you can tell me here that if I don't know 10, 7 or how many of them are done and 3 comes and discuss it live, it had to be all 10 live. Well, I don't think those teachers are that much that I can't get competencies, ask something live when it's technology, etc. And still. To compare them with us, I don't think the citizens would forgive us, I mean, given what grade we have here and what we do, and in some things absolutely justified. So if your goal was to get as good and quality an educational professor and an educator as possible, thank God, but I think you should look to both the result and what happens in the end. Well, we have my people back in the day, and I don't know how many years and a lot of educations that are done on-line on top, prestigious universities are held on-line lectures so I don't know what to make up hot water here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89860	The next replica is respected representatives of Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89861	Comrade Curaj, here's your answer to my colleague, Zekanovic. I understand you a little better. In fact, I realized from your debate that you're really only for online education, I'm probably wrong or you didn't explain it until the end. So certainly on-line education, absolutely, we live in the 21st century and we have to go forward and we have to but never forget with online education either face to face, besides that I'm talking about it with the minister on several occasions, and I'm sure she's taking care that education doesn't just go on-line, but that our teachers are educated and let's call it that in person. And in doing so, I remind you once again that there is no need to interfere with all this, neither forget nor put aside our agency. The Education and Education Agency, for vocational education and all other agencies whose work is also part-round where we have a large number of our education experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89862	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89863	Well, I think it's pretty clear that we're actually getting along, so we agreed, so here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89864	And the last individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, today we covered a lot of topics and there was a lot of talk about quality, so in our system of science and higher education, I'm going to allow myself to have my own debate and I didn't actually plan to come forward in this direction and what my colleague Jovanovic and colleague Curaj said and not just him. So we with quality in our system have a lot of problems, so that's a fact. So part of it is defined by law, part of it comes from law and part of it comes from some other acts and part from the system organisation itself. As far as the legal part is concerned, we've had every attempt at reform since 2003 here and unfortunately, to me, and before, and to me, it seems that after each reform, the system was only getting worse and not better. For example, after the 2013 reform in the term of colleague Jovanovic, or his then deputy, who de facto led the system of science and higher education, we got the situation that someone could be a doctor, do you know when? To the death. So we now have a situation that you as a doctor have no obligation to be elected to multiple titles, no re-election criteria and after 65 years you can extend the mandate 2 times 2 years while your group has a majority in the university council so I can choose you, re-vote others, etc. to death practically. If it's a guarantee of quality, I'm not sure. There was a lot of talk about quality back then, which is why I'm saying it here. Because these are some legal solutions that I think don't contribute to quality, meaning constant evaluation and so on. Next, as far as this diet is concerned, which is not directly related to the law but which is connected to it, which is what I mean is the key to the whole story. So the criteria are for choosing scientific knowledge and there are criteria for how many works you have, what works you have, etc., determines the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. There were also more attempts at reform, one was also there in 2013. Unfortunately, however, it fell in the Constitutional Court. Why she fell in the Constitutional Court and I think that should be said, why then the idea of reform was very discriminatory and that is because it was abolished according to socio-humanist sciences or areas of science. It seems that also certain groups, which are quite unfortunately medialy loud, at the time felt that socio-humanist sciences were not important, that domestic scientific journals were a shear, that this should not even be financed, that there was no need for this. So all you have to do is go into those things that belong to the STEM area. Of course, STEM area is extremely important, this government has made a major leap through STEM scholarships on which it also worked, and colleague Gluncic, who has done the lion's part of the work related to it, but the socio-humanist area is not something to be ignored. So it is important for several reasons, from the protection of national identity to the fact that through education on processes in Croatia, in the EU on the socio-political system, in the right system, public debates in society are just rising, so that there are not even a few things heard in this assembly that are largely derived from a lot of May information. So I think that socio-humanist sciences are very important for the overall atmosphere in society, for the level of some general education of members of society, which is then also being held on full social development, in the elections for the Parliament and for the president, etc., etc. I say, after these failed attempts at reform in 2013, which did not exactly go in the direction of quality, I am glad that the National Council made that step, so last year a new rule was adopted on elections in scientific titles which the criteria had raised on average at my estimate of about 20% to 25%. And that's what I think is a good way to go and that competent institutions should be deprived of these political influences in that sense, rather than really thinking about how to raise quality. So there's a great step in social sciences, a lot of things are improved, so there's an increase in the number of papers that should be published, their international recognition, means the obligation to publish articles that someone writes in magazines that are referred to in foreign databases etc., and here I think they've done a good thing, and especially that it's a good thing that there's an obligation to publish between the two elections in the title, a certain percentage of the article, means a certain percentage of the article has to be after the election in the last term, in fact forcing teachers and scientists to periodically publish, publish, publish, not to stop research after a certain number of years. I think that's a good way to go, and that's why this way I'd also like to commend the current set of national council science and higher education and technological development that adopted that rule. We have further problems inside the system that especially prevent people outside the system from coming into it. So it's also unfortunately introduced in 2013 when it's impossible for someone, for example, who's a cover doctor, to work as an external associate, to be chosen after 3 years as an extraordinary professor. So man meets the conditions for an extraordinary professor, has all the conditions, works, titles, etc., but does not meet the conditions for an extraordinary professor, must first be elected to the doctor, to be in the doctor's office, and then to the job of an extraordinary professor. So we have this kind of paradoxal number situation, and that's how we dimize quality. We're setting up bureaucratic, administratively diverse legal barriers and thus making it impossible for those of the highest quality to come in, get into the system and get into expressions. Furthermore, it is a question of returning scientists from abroad, facilitating their employment at scientific institutions, and I also know when I was a ministerial assistant and how much we worked so hard to free yourself with the legal service of the ministry that had a very rigid and narrow interpretation, so I finally had to write legal opinions, and the favorites of our scientists coming from outside to work in our scientific institutions. So that's a bunch of problems that currently exist and that need to be solved through the new regulation. What I would also point out about quality assurance, which is, of course, the issue of raising its own level is the issue of control and also the question, so who controls the system and, in that sense, I think it is very important that in this new system that will hopefully be passed through new legislation, this system of control remains as strong as possible. If we lower the control system to the colleges themselves, high schools, universities etc., if we lift the parent approvals, we stop the scientific references that exist today, I think we will only weaken that quality and this proven empirical in Croatia is not good, so I think that through this new quality assurance system, the state should certainly retain a very important influence and the ability to control what is happening in our system. I would also point out something that is particularly important in the context of our demographic crisis and this is a question of the security of the employment of young scientists. So we now have the situation that the position of doctors and assistants is very bad, they did not have from 2012 to 2015 when practically the closed system for new PhDs was closed and that certainly left the consequences. So many of these young experts instead of staying at our high schools and universities went out just because they couldn't get a job in our system of science and higher education. And I think future legal solutions should go in a way to stimulate employment, to enable employment to those who are of quality but to give them certain security. In that sense, I don't think it's a good way to go, and I also heard it in the academy at a lecture a few days ago, that it's considering a variant that the docents make contracts for a certain time, or that they make trial contracts for some six years. So today, as we know, docents, young scientists who have just doctored, make contracts indefinitely, and that gives them certain security. So I can get a job, so they're busy, I can take a loan for the apartment, I can start a family, and that's something that's good. If we put him in a system where the docents make contracts for a certain time, where they have no security, they can't get credit, you'll have a situation that if you're in the science system, up to 40 years, you're not creditworthy. Is that a good way to go, I don't think it's particularly in our situation where the best, the best young people go outside, go to Ireland, to the UK, to the Netherlands, Germany, etc., I don't think it's definitely the way to make it even more difficult for them and to increase their life's uncertainty. So what am I saying? So we have the HKO Act, but it is a well-organised part of the system, but it does not solve those structural problems of quality assurance and quality selection of personnel in our higher education system, and for this reason, since I know that new legal solutions are being prepared by the ministry, I pray and appeal that there are no real errors in the period 2012, 2015, when the 7 acts of the ministry fell in the Constitutional Court and I also ask them not to go in the direction of increasing the uncertainty of the workplace and to make it difficult for young scientists and young teachers to stay and work indefinitely, but on the contrary, to make it easier for them to be given the security to stay in Croatia and to contribute to this society where we all live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89866	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89867	My colleague Sokol, I absolutely agree with you, of course, and I stand up against making a contract at a certain time when it's about docents because it's absolutely demographically dimming because we know the situation and it's justified to make a contract for a certain time with the assistants for six years until they get a doctorate, and I absolutely support it. We know, however, that during a certain period of time a good number of our assistants after they doctored their contract for a certain period of time did not turn into contracts indefinitely. Young doctors have been waving at us, and if we make a similar situation with the doctors, I wonder who will remain in Croatian science at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89868	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89869	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bedekovic certainly agrees and yes, we really are, I mean, what is this really about? We had a huge flow of new doctors, then called the scientific money there in 2004, 5, 6 and 7 which may not have been well planned, and then there was a problem especially when the financial crisis came to this and I do not consider my colleague Jovanovic as minister then to blame for all these problems. Of course it doesn't turn out to be that, but what's important is that, indeed, a lot of people have fallen out of the system, but many of their situations have been solved thanks to so-called. Development coefficients, and this is what I would like to commend on this occasion, which was in the Ministry of 2015, which through this system has enabled many to get these jobs, and yet it has largely managed to save one generation. So it doesn't turn out that I'm just attacking the former governments, but other solutions are also needed, it takes stimulating the employment of new doctors of science to find their place outside the science system and higher education system like in the West, but it will take a lot more effort and new solutions. Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bedekovic certainly agrees and yes, we really are, I mean, what is this really about? We had a huge flow of new doctors, then called the scientific money there in 2004, 5, 6 and 7 which may not have been well planned, and then there was a problem especially when the financial crisis came to this and I do not consider my colleague Jovanovic as minister then to blame for all these problems. Of course it doesn't turn out to be that, but what's important is that, indeed, a lot of people have fallen out of the system, but many of their situations have been solved thanks to so-called. Development coefficients, and this is what I would like to commend on this occasion, which was in the Ministry of 2015, which through this system has enabled many to get these jobs, and yet it has largely managed to save one generation. So it doesn't turn out that I'm just attacking the former governments, but other solutions are also needed, it takes stimulating the employment of new doctors of science to find their place outside the science system and higher education system like in the West, but it will take a lot more effort and new solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89871	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89872	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Sokol. I'm glad you specifically talked about young scientists, namely making a contract at a certain time for 5 or 6 years and mentioning it through demographic measures. The fact that it's been a year, a year and a half as far as we're talking about these demographic measures, that certain things have been going well and going in the right direction. My opinion was that every law that was passed in the Croatian Parliament should have that dimension to actually be seen wherever it is possible that any demographic measure that could help to remain that way. That's why making a contract with young scientists for 5 and 6 years is certainly not good because the fact is that these people who have their working relationship for 40 or more years, or have it, are not creditworthy and cannot solve their existential problems as such. That's why it's good for the Minister to be here in high school and she to hear actually these remarks that can improve this law too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89873	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89874	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I agree, buddy. I think that the public debate has really raised the level of complete awareness of society about this problem, but what is particularly important is that demographic problems must be solved systematically, so there is no law that will be passed, which will be some kind of panic that will solve all the problems. Demographic policy should be at the level of all ministries, as you have said at the level of all laws, and I think that there is a system of science and education that is very important because it is exactly where young quality personnel are created and if we don't take care of them we will have brains to replace, and that is what none of us wants, and that is why I agree with you at this time and I hope that the ministry will find the best solution for this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89875	Thank you very much. That, and I'm sorry, we have a final word on behalf of the proposer, the Honorable Minister Divjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89876	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs here in the closing statement I will try to sum up our answers a little bit and give answers to some relevant questions, of course to those who are not difficult to answer. As for these amendments and the addition of the laws, the truth is that they were made by the Constitutional Court decision, however, we tried to use these amendments and additions to solve some irregularities in the law itself which proved to have some practical repercussions, and since over the years how many laws were in the implementation they were observed so I think it is a normal and good situation to then introduce these changes. As regards the amendments to the Constitutional Court's decisions, these are two key amendments. One relating to levels of professional and university studies and other changes related to approaches of post-graduate, especially doctoral studies. As for this first amendment, the distinction of professional and university studies, and now there have been a lot of discussions on this subject, and I would remind above all that in the Republic of Croatia we have a binary system, meaning we have both professional and university studies and that both have a place, not only in the system but also as such they have products, i.e., in their finality for study programmes give qualifications that are relevant to the labour market, which does not mean that they are all equally well recognised and does not mean that there is no room for promotion. There is also a simple way to improve in terms of quality and in terms of relevance. However, the binary system as such, where it distinguishes university and professional studies, emphasis on skills, especially on the skills that have its application and its relevance on the labour market is primarily in professional studies, which does not mean that they are less valuable than university studies, but that they are different means anyway. And in this sense, this is the introduction of a species that, as such a type of study, already exists on the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, recognition of this in the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is important. And it's an instrument, a technique that the ministry has applied here and the government has accepted, so that we have this distinction, and that the levels, which are based mostly on ECTS points, are not established in a way that are different developmental and university studies. And there's no need to take sides, if anyone's on the side of university and university studies. What needs to be taken into account are needs, it is a system, it is students, who, if they have equal rights, then, and they should have equal rights, meaning their rights and access to the labour market, must only differ with acquired qualifications, and are then based on the competences that the student has brought from the outcome of learning studies, it is prescribed in the supplementary study correction, which then employers can and can consult, I think it is very important. As regards the instruments of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, they are not easy to understand, because the concept of standard of interest is a standard of qualifications and based on that study or educational programme, where study programmes can be distinguished even though they cover the same qualification is very important because it also enables profiling of study programmes and institutions and institutions that assign certain qualifications. And I think that in this sense we should continue to have a focus, that there are certain needs of the market, the needs of society, which can be more clearly articulated through these two instruments, means an instrument of interest, a standard of interest and a standard of qualifications, and then a study programme that provides a certain qualification. All of this should be well indicated and described in the supplemental correction on the situation. It is something that, as I said, is not only a Croatian topic, but also a European topic, but it needs to be understood in this sense. There was also a discussion of whether she had succeeded in failing the Bologna reform. Well, that is because the debate for which one should, perhaps another form should be discussed, in this sense, in addition to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, but it is certain that through the Croatian Qualifications Framework, it is also a redesign of study programmes. Because the very fact that you provide, the correlation between qualifications and study programmes, in fact, through expected learning outcomes should also contribute to the employability of first-raters and the recognition of their qualifications on the labour market. And that instrument is important, you need to put it in focus. It is certainly as I said, that the basics are the outcomes of learning, as such as the concept, which is important, but it is equally important, and it was also highlighted in the debate, that it is a package of laws, meaning the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which gives everyone equal rights and in accordance with acquired qualifications, so one is an element, the other is an element, and the other is the law of this package is a law on quality assurance, which has 2 important instruments. One instrument is the external evaluation of the quality assurance system in the higher schools that we are promoting and that we will also install the evaluation and alignment with the Croatian Qualifications Framework. And the second is the internal, institutional internal quality assurance, which must really be of primary interest to us, because development, internal development and quality culture at the institution, is on the university that everything is based on. Because we can't bring in yet. I don't know how many packages of the law. If universities, high schools, don't develop and cultivate a culture of quality, then all this is just an attempt to give me in some way a system that would have to be developmental, put in some gauges that are administrative. So the laws provide certain frameworks, but the substance itself means the development of culture, the quality of it is at universities and high schools, universities. And if you're looking at successful systems in the world, it's exactly the systems that have managed to do it, not that have all been able to get into different regulations. So before the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, I also mention the Law on Quality Insurance, because today he was also apostropheded several times, and here we will ask that the conditions be raised both for university and university alike, means professional studies and for those who actually teach and work in these studies, in order to ensure this quality except for the relevant and quality exit. The second instrument is certainly software contracts that we prepare for higher schools, where we will provide funding for the next period of 4 years, but also ask the university, from higher schools and the delivery of certain results and work on targets. And we all need to know together that with public money we need to finance the natural universities because they are public good, important for the development of how, therefore, individual for the individual, and for the system and for society, but we must insist that those objectives and those indicators that are important at national level also be given that universities and universities finance public money that they are a priority in that part. And the third law that has also been discussed here today is the Law on Scientific Activity and on the Law on Scientific Activity and High Education emphasis in these amendments to the Law is about encouraging excellence. Of course, the procedures for attracting scientists outside the system must be simpler both in this sense and in order to enable scientists to return to our system, they must also be simpler. Flexible approach and experience of developed systems. In that sense, the experience is related to the so-called ... a system which we will introduce into legislation in a way that is electoral. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So someone who enters the status and calls the professor's science-teaching can either choose a science-teacher who goes in terms of a permanent working relationship or can have this accelerated system... using other developed countries, other developed systems, but then allowing for accelerated progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that choice is important and that this system that they use, as I said, universities that are at the top of the world need to see how we can at least alternatively apply in our system. Now a few answers about the debate. Of course, enough about the learning outcomes again. I think we all need to look at what actually means the outcome of learning. The outcome of learning primarily directs the system to the student and student, not to the teacher. If we're talking about the one who teaches, then he's focused on... Content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we're talking about a student, a student, then the focus is on the outcome. Because the outcome of learning means what a student, a student is able to do, produce, which is able to evaluate the basis of the learning process. And that means at least three things. First of all, the level of outcome and this is important to note because without outcome and without level, there are certainly no qualification frameworks, at least not those comparable at some level. Secondly, it contains safe and content, so all those who talk about the outcome of no error in content, or did not take a good look at the theory of the outcome of learning. And the third part is an evaluation. It means how we will evaluate the outcome of learning, or achievement. Because without value, there's no confirmation of the outcome. So, what enables us to focus on outcomes? Flexible approach, focus on student student, recognition of previously acquired informal... learning, comparableity of qualifications. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you look at the European qualification framework, so that's the basis, that we have the comparability that's based on learning outcomes. Quality assurance. The European Quality Insurance Instrument, which includes the use of European standards and guidelines. So,.../The speaker speaks English./... is again based on the outcome of learning. The recommendations of the European Commission, which are then, i.e. the recommendation of the EU Council in key competences, are also based on outcomes. And in that sense, I would really appeal that we all try to understand this concept together and see how to systematically apply it in all these legislative regulations that we are now working on, and of course how to live up to the system of learning and teaching. We are trying and working on it through curricula reform and through this experimental phase, and of course when we will enter the frontal implementation next year and in this respect we have provided both the budget and the EU funds. So among other things 150 million kunas from the EU funds for the implementation of the experimental phase, the preparation of teachers and teachers and, of course, in these funds is the obligation of promotion,... Because why are we doing this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're working together because we need to know where the European funds are being spent, and that's our obligation, and we also need to know what we're doing and we need to... The information, therefore, I don't see any problems in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this is required in the European funds and these 150 million kunas for which we have written the project in the last 8 months and received the approval and withdraw the funds have the same obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hence, there is no problem in promoting what is good and what is done. As we also use EU funds to promote and develop the instruments of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, 60 million kuna in the previous period, now a new competition for 100 million kunas also to bring education and study programmes into line with standards of interest and qualifications. And of course, we're going to do that again and we're always going to say from which sources we actually have to withdraw those funds and why we're doing it. And of course, when we talk about education, colleague Zekanovic, it's not skype. You need to take a closer look. So it's something called LMS,.../The speaker speaks English./... And of course it's not just education, it's live education. But in today's fast, rapid growth of technology, at a time when the world's top universities compete who will have more on-line education or quality MUKs, I think it would be illusory to base our entire education exclusively on teaching the educator face to face, or face to face in the classroom itself, and we cannot expect that we have digital school transformation unless there is no digital transformation of teachers, learning and teaching. We don't run away from the benefits of education in the classroom, but we use it and we use it and we have to do it, so all the advantages it offers on technology. And it gives us a lot of advantages, but that's what I'm saying, at this point we shouldn't further elaborate. I'm not going to use it, of course, and I'm not going to answer everything that's been heard from the debate, but I'm going to answer one thing anyway, and it's about, well, it's been a lot in the discussion of useful suggestions, a lot of what should be thought about, what I've noted, which I'm sure we're going to put into further regulation, but there have been some things that we better not to look at because they're using those who say that others are promoting their self-promotions. However, I will answer one thing. The testimonies, or new pedagogical documentation in which Mr Zekanovic said he had no parents' names because of birth ideology, so I will remind you of my colleague Zekanovic, Mr Zekanovic, that this regulation was passed at a time before I became a minister, and the State Secretary in charge of education and education was a member of your party Mr Schlezak, so if he promotes gender ideology, then I think we really have a problem. But I assure you that neither Mr. Schlezak has that problem, nor do I have that problem, and the Pedagogical Documentation Regulation was passed when it was passed, so inform yourself that then you may have a slightly better basis for discussion, and not just this way. So to conclude, the changes we have in both the economy and the very rapid development of technological development, new methods, new scientific knowledge, are not something we should ignore, however. We must not even say that we are responding to them, we must prepare our students, our students for the situation to change, that we have a situation in which we have to develop instruments that suit the needs of students, the needs of society that will later and create both economic and social development in the country. Therefore, education cannot remain in the 19th century, nor can our students, students be hostages of the past, hostages of particular interests or some strange ideology. And in that sense I will be back in 2 minutes to our law amending and supplementing the HKO Act, he is primarily an instrument for harmonising needs, future needs I would show labour markets and society and what education offers. Secondly, it is an instrument in which we coordinate at European level because it is connected to the European Qualifications Framework, and we really still have to do a lot of work to implement this instrument in a way, i.e. to really identify the qualifications that come from other countries in such a way that there are no obstacles and that all those qualifications that come from countries that have an established quality assurance system at least through the ENKV and ENKVAR European instruments are recognised in a way that these people can come to work in Croatia and can come to realize their own certain aspirations in educational and economic terms without obstacles and thus also serve HKO and these instruments that have been implemented here. Here in that sense, I thank everyone for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89877	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89878	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, so you heard during the debate two or three replicas were related to young scientists, i.e. their limitations, i.e. working for a certain time, but you were about to end up touching that and you mentioned this American program this tennis track and actually I didn't realize until the end. So those people who would be indefinitely, they wouldn't be able to move forward? That's how I understood. But good to explain it, and those who don't, they could advance, but for a certain working time. However, in my opinion, I like confrontations in lawmaking because that is what we are actually improving the law itself and you said yourself that this law is being passed because of the need of the labour market and I see it as such, and that is why I think it is not good to limit the possibility of progress, especially excellence in such young people, I think that is neither our interest nor our goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89879	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89880	Thank you. First of all, we must really say that this is not in this law on amendments to the HKO Act, but the debate on the law on scientific activity and higher education has opened the topic of the tenior track. It actually means you have two ways of progress in the system. One is the way it is now, the docent permanent working relationship and then progress as we now have, and there's an accelerated way for those who multiplely meet those minimum criteria that are being set, then that system is a tenior track. So in the parallel of two systems, one that progresses as is now envisaged and another that can speed up progress based on exceptional results. Therefore, we cultivate excellence and retain people in Croatia because some people are leaving because of this because of our system that we have too much. So in that sense, I actually support what you said, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89881	The next replica is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89882	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Here in the debate we heard about the experimental group and 150 million kuna worth of the project and the costs of the promotion itself, so please tell us, since the projects are the very means of promotion and limited, the amount of media space, leaflets and everything else that this amount is about in view of the whole project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89883	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89884	We can send this to you, of course, in the written form of the funds, but surely in every EU project, you have not only the possibility, but also the obligation of dissemination in this regard are then the funds and used. And as you can see, there's nothing you can hear anywhere, there's no name that's included, but only that, which is ultimately, within the project and developed, means that with the experimental phase, they're going into the fall and of course what that means. First of all, it means education that will be based on outcomes, which will be focused on students, easier bags, digitalisation, digital transformation of schools and that is what we are working on and what is good to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89885	The next replica of the respected representative, Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89886	Dear Minister, I didn't mention the term, I didn't use it, I didn't mention it, and I know that my colleague Šlezak worked at the ministry at the time, and I know that your predecessor Barisic passed the law, and I disagree with that, as well as many other things brought by his radio colleague Barisic. And unfortunately, my colleague Schlezak had no major influence on politics at the time of Barisic, as well as on yours. Unfortunately. But on the other hand, here's what I'm calling you right now, you've got a chance, you're going to be another minister, let next year's testimony be with the parents' names, I think that would be fine. Why wouldn't a child on an important document have his father and his mother's name if he had them, thank God? And as for, well, that would be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89887	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89888	I only have two simple questions, one you probably mean, that's how much this law actually comes from a Constitutional Court decision that concerns those who have completed their study at foreign universities, how much this HKO law protects these finished students, I say, who are looking for a job or who are after wanting to keep it, especially those art professions from, and they ended up abroad. And the second question is actually, you previously answered Mr. Zekanovic that if there is any gender ideology there then it comes from his party. And I'd like you to define, to tell me what gender ideology is, is it some kind of disease?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89889	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Wilderness.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89890	I can't answer this last sweat because I'm really not familiar with this subject. However, regarding your question about the recognition of foreign qualifications. This law does not cover the direct recognition of foreign qualifications, which is the Law on the Recognition of Foreign Qualifications but helps. That is why, if countries use systems of national qualification frameworks that are, for example, linked through the European Qualification Framework and we can put in relation to qualifications from different systems, from different countries, then the answer is to help, but provided that both countries have qualifications that we link through the European Qualifications Framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89891	Thank you very much for closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89892	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, second reading, P.Z. No. The 267th act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment tabled, with us the State Secretary of State in the Ministry of Science and Education, Branko Ramljak. Please, we have one amendment to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89893	The amendment replacing the words "previous opinion" with the words "previous consent" is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89894	I note that the amendment becomes an integral part of the bill's proposal and I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, please vote. I find that most votes, 96 for, 8 abstentions and 4 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89895	We will move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the State Support Act for research development projects, second reading, P.Z. No. 269; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Most. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and craft Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89896	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today I would like to introduce you to the Final Proposal of the State Support Act for Research Development Projects. The government of the Republic of Croatia and I are personally aware of the fact that according to the European Development Table for Innovation produced by the European Commission, we are placed in the countries of moderate innovators, it is the third group of 4 existing and we are also aware that innovation activities continue on research and development activities and represent the commercialisation of the results of research and development, which shows the interdependence of these activities. We also know that these activities result in new products, services and business processes, which improves the competitiveness of both businesses and the economy as a whole. Some of the reasons for this are the lack of systematic and innovative policies, insufficient investment of the business sector, activities, research and development, an insufficient number of technology companies that would require more intensive cooperation with the scientific and research community but also less innovation capacity of the business sector. According to Eurostat, the level of expenditure in the Republic of Croatia for research and development has stagnated since 2010 and is well below the EU average. The share of Croatian GDP intended for research and development activities in the period 2002 to 2015 decreases from 0.96 to 0.78% in 2014 while the EU average is 2.04%. On the other hand, the promotion of research and innovation development is a key element of European policies in order to achieve the growth, productivity and competitiveness objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, which is achieved by a number of measures in the EU Member States to bring the target closer, increase R & D investment to 3% of GDP by 2020. The introduction of tax incentives to invest in research, development and innovation is used as an instrument of economic policy by directing private economic activity. This leads to the creation of a space to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, affecting the change in the behaviour of companies that are increasingly opting to do so, the investment of such a type. And tax reliefs in the service of encouraging foreign investment in the long term can lead to a situation where the national economy and its development depend on external influences. Such investment also strengthens the internal factors, stronger and capacity of the national economy for growth and development. In addition, the effect is achieved by spilling positive effects and beyond the recipient himself because the newly achieved knowledge is being passed on to other stakeholders in value chains. Legal solutions that are regulated should not have a time limit of application because, in our technological areas such as biotechnology and medicine, the duration of the investment period before the monetisation itself lasts up to 10 years. The long-term objective of this measure is to increase future revenues in the state budget, the way to achieve this goal is by strengthening the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. ... the intervention has an investment character in those private economic activities which have a high potential for the return of that investment also through tax charges, which will result in an increase in future state revenues greater than the amount of current tax reliefs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to determine the real impact, it is necessary to introduce monitoring of implementation towards pre-set indicators and periodically carry out an impact analysis. The direct reason for the adoption of this law is the non-compliance of the legal and sub-legislative rules of the Republic of Croatia with EU regulations in the area of granting state support for research and development projects. We know that the law that is very similar to this and has been in the intelligence of the Ministry of Science, education has ceased on 1 January 2015 and precisely because it was not in line with the EU legal framework. This law also provides for the creation of this law through the National Reform Programme 2017 and... State aid measures before the law implemented from 2007 to 2014 were necessary to comply with this law with the Commission's Office No. 651/2014 of 17 June that year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The objectives of this law are to increase private sector investment in development research or to contribute to increasing the combined investment of the public and private sector in the Republic of Croatia in research and development and to achieving 1.4 shares in GDP by 2020. Also, the aim is to increase the number of entrepreneurs investing in research and development and to encourage the cooperation of entrepreneurs with scientific organisations on research and development projects. The type of support provided for in this law is a tax relief for research and development projects belonging to the category of basic research, industrial research, experimental development or feasibility studies for these research and development projects. State support users may be legal persons and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax or income tax and who have a business unit or branch in the Republic of Croatia at the time of payment or use of the support. The expected economic effects of the law are multiple and significant, an increase in the level of competitiveness of the private sector is expected, a favourable impact on exports of Croatian products and services, an increase in the innovation capacity of users of knowledge flow and ideas by increasing the number of employees or employed researchers in the user, a positive inflow of knowledge to other sectors and businesses due to an increase in the number of repeat research and experimental development with the innovation potential of users, thereby contributing to the overall knowledge fund that can be shed into other sectors. In addition, the increase in the number of patents or other intellectual property rights stemming from projects that have achieved a favourable business climate for further investment in knowledge-based activities and a positive impact on the state budget by increasing revenues from various basics through new employment, through VAT, exports, etc. The general conditions for granting support are that the research and development project must belong to one or more research categories, which are basic research, industrial research, experimental development or a feasibility study for these research and development projects. Also, an entrepreneur benefiting should not be in difficulty or in the pre-departure settlement process. An undertaking shall not, of course, be in bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings and shall have the obligations to pay the tax obligations and obligations due to pension and health insurance and any subsistence obligations to employees on any basis. They are not acceptable projects with future revenues in real estate sectors, gambling and betting activities, financial activities and insurance activities, social care activities with accommodation and without accommodation and retail trade. The eligible costs of the project relate to the costs of staff, i.e. the salaries, fees of researchers, technicians and other auxiliary staff employed on such a project, the costs of depreciation, instruments and equipment used, the costs of research carried out on the basis of contracts, knowledge and patents supplied or granted to other parties, the costs of advisory and similar services used exclusively for this project, on the costs of business, such as the costs of materials, consumables and similar products, as well as the additional overhead costs and costs of producing a feasibility study. As already stated before, one of the objectives of the law and the promotion of cooperation with the scientific research sector is to achieve a greater knowledge flow between the sector and the economy and to transform knowledge into new products with higher and high added value. The support award procedure shall include the receipt of a project application, administrative verification, issue of a certificate, monitoring, approval of the implementation of project activities and reporting on the results and effects of support to the specified during and after the completion of the project. As a public support provider, it stands in the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts and the law leaves the possibility of entrusting the works or the whole process to the executive body within the jurisdiction of the ministry. The Republic of Croatia will contribute to the development of its economy and to strengthening business competitiveness by increasing private sector investment in R & D and increasing the number of entrepreneurs themselves investing in the sector. As already mentioned, the main objective of the National Reform Programme in 2017 and the 2018 macro-level programme is to increase private sector investment in research and development and to improve the environment for this area in particular with a view to raising the combined level of public and private investment in this sector to the strategic objective of 1.4% of GDP by 2020, as defined by the Innovation Initiative, 2014-2020 Research and Development aims to boost the knowledge fund in our country, which has committed itself to developing a knowledge-based society and thus contributes to increasing the knowledge-based knowledge fund of humanity, which can raise Croatia in many examples so far. This law certainly represents a quality framework for it. Following this, I propose that this Final Proposal of the Law on State Support for Research and Development Projects be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89897	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, and you have also pointed out that Croatia lags behind the R & D gaps, which are now at 0.85, in Europe at 2.3, with Europe's goal of 2020 being 3. In my first reading, I also pointed out a disagreement in documents that point out in your document that the 2020 goal is to be 1.4 in Croatia while in the strategy of education, science and technology in science and technology, the 6th investment in research and development is listed as 1.4 but with a goal that should be achieved 2. Yet you have opted for this more modest goal, shouldn't you at least remain optimistic and encourage us to try to get to 2 percent, not to be twice as lagging behind Europe in 2020?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89899	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Antonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89900	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for your comment. Yeah, we know about your first-reading remarks. I would say the following, so maybe that sounds not so optimistic, but in any case I think that by 2020 we have even a little less than 2 years and I believe it's more realistic to expect that we go step by step and achieve at least that goal by 2020, and no one happier than us if this law pulls results to achieve 2% by 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89901	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will be the first to speak with the respected representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89902	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministry colleagues, state secretary, respected chairman. Here is from the presentation of the legislator and we say that investment in research and development is stagnating, that it is below the EU level, and we have before us the final proposal of the Law on State Support for Research Development Projects, which by who knows which path is supposed to increase investment in research and development, and by tax relief, which, of course, we believe only when we see it. On this bill, MOST submitted an amendment aimed at increasing tax incentives for industrial expression and experimental development projects, i.e. an increase in industrial research of 175% of tax relief and experimental development 150%, all of which are constantly talking about, but no one essentially encourages. According to data from the entrepreneurship development strategy in the Republic of Croatia 2014 In 2020, the public sector dominates investment in research and development in Croatia. The higher education institutions and authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia together constitute 55.8 total research and development potential, i.e. investments unlike the EU where the public research sector on average accounts for 37,5 total research in research and development. The latest data for EU Member States show that 99.8% of all entities belong, meaning in our economy, a small economy. There is a similar situation in Croatia, with us more than 98% of those belonging to micro or small economies. Why did I give you all this dry data? Well, it's simply because when we encourage something, then first of all we need to know what composition and structure we're talking about so we can come up with the right measures that we can increase investment in research and development. In order to finally understand where Croatia is when it comes to research and development, I will provide some more statistics that the European Commission has also told us about Croatia's accounting report 2018 and the German IFO Institute of Management of Studies... Statistics suggest that R & D allocations were moderated by the share in GDP of the Republic of Croatia at 0.79% in 2014, 0.85% in 2015, 0.84% in 2016. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For comparisons, Slovenia singled out 2% for research and development in 2016, while the goal of the Republic of Slovenia is to single out 1.4% only in 2020. About Germany and its percentage of 2.94%, we can clearly only dream. Denmark is 2.87%, and Finland is 2.75, too. In order to look back at the investment of research from 2003 to 2015, the basis of EUROSTAT would be clear to all that the Republic of Croatia was more isolated in 2004 than it is today. Furthermore, the share of R & D funds spent in the state sector was 27%. In 2016 versus 22% in 2006 27%, so 10 years later 22%. If this fact after 10 years, the fact that we have reduced our investment in research and development is not devastating, then I don't know what it is. In addition, on page 43, Croatia's issue report for 2018, it clearly reads:.../Vovornica reads English./... So, together, we should actually sit down to the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts and develop this law in a way that changes this goal from 1.4% to 2020 and actually focuses more on achieving and pushing for greater investment in research and development. IFO experts concluded the following. Scientists employed in the public sector in the Republic of Croatia have relatively less resources than scientists in any comparable country. Croatia has a relatively smaller proportion of scientists and engineers in the overall population compared to the EU average, but comparable countries, except Slovakia. The movement of the number of scientists and engineers suggests that Croatia is probably already having problems with innovative capacities due to restrictions in adequate human capital. Croatia has reduced education allocations for the past few years, but a low level of isolation dates back to the pre-crisis period. Finally, according to EUROSTAT data, looking at the countries in which Croatia should and should be compared, Croatia singled out only 340m euros from all sources, private sector, state sector, higher education for research and development in 2014 while Slovakia singled out 670m, Slovenia 890m million large and Hungary as many as 1.4 billion euros. Interestingly, the situation was significantly different in 2004. In that year, Croatia allocated 345m kuna and Slovakia only 174., Slovenia 379 and Hungary 721m euros. So we simply stopped investing in research and development and now we're surprised and surprised by the full buses that are going away. It's important that you bomb us with stories about the land of knowledge for years. Who are we lying to, ourselves? It is the last time if it is not too late to create a climate for investment in research and development and do not say that money is missing, it is just a matter of reforming public administration and other reforms. Stop talking to my generation like all previous generations for decades to rub our eyes with the same stories of structural reforms, strategies, similar bureaucratic offices while you hire us over 120 new officials on a daily basis. These are your reforms. You mean enough to say, it'll be fine, you think, and enough with the grief and the pain in the voice to tell our country is failing. How long? Until we all choke in the living mud or until you force us all to leave, or all of you get together to take a job or we go along and get this country out of the fungi we're in, or finally stop teaching us flossules about the land of prosperity. I note that MOST of Independent Lists has given an amendment to the proposal for a final law, which refers to an increase in tax relief for industrial research and experimental development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89903	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Sokol will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89904	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, fellow MPs. So before us is the Final Bill on State Support for Research Development Projects. In my debate, I will highlight the position and describe the HDZ's position on this law, and first I would refer to some of the things that we have heard here so far. So the first law is not a programming text. So in law and preambles of law, reasoning, etc. We can state what the goals are, is that 1,4, 1.2 GDP. I, of course, also as former assistant minister of science and education, believe that this should be as much as possible, but such provisions in the law itself do not have a special legal force but simply fall under other documents such as the meaning of strategy and the like. And since I am very pleased to have a whole new framework, I believe that the National Development Strategy and sectoral strategies will then include all our plans and priorities in the next period in the field of investment in science and research. Another thing about investment in science and research. So we had, the fact is, in the period 2012 to 2015, a huge investment hole where most unfortunately it was being saved exactly where it wasn't supposed to be saved. So it's been saved on new scientists, on the salaries of scientists, PhDs, on the advancement of top quality scientists, docents, extraordinary professors, scientific associates. Unfortunately, it was being saved on scientific projects, so it's just all those things that need to give some added value and it's going to keep the cold drive going. That's not good, I think it was the wrong priority of the government at the time, we're fortunately trying to change it now. So we are currently as mentioned in the previous debate in the biggest investment cycle process in our science over the last few decades. I would just mention signed contracts for scientific centres of excellence where the story was stretching and stretching for years, worth 380 million kunas, investment in scientific infrastructure of some, initially envisaged 760 million kunas, I think that has grown to some 900, investment in more than 3,000 STEM scholarships financed from the European Social Fund, investment in, means training new PhDs, means 154 in last year from the European Social Fund plus budget funding for the new 250 PhDs a year. Investments in 4 large projects such as projects on Srebrenica, Ruđer Boskovic Institute, KALT project etc. So this is only projects from the European Regional Development Fund that are either agreed or in the process of negotiating some 2.5 billion kunas. So right now we're in the process of making up for all those backlogs from previous years. It's about this general part. Now I would say something, now a little more concrete about this law but I would explain the context in which it is brought. So we had rules that were valid until the end of 2014, but as Secretary of State Antonic said, those rules could no longer be in force because of the need to comply with European legislation. So, among other things, the legal basis had to be changed, it could no longer have been the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education but had to be passed a whole new law. And the bill, his draft initially created by the Department of Science and Technology of the Ministry of Science and Education, was then taken over by the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, and eventually the working group put this proposal together. But mostly first, I would say something about this previous state aid system that was in place by the end of 2014. In 2011, the Institute of Economics conducted a survey of the users of tax incentives aimed at assessing the principle of additional impact involving 43 companies. And the following has been established among other things. Most users, 86% of them, have estimated that the measure is important for the activities and research and development of their company. Furthermore, on the basis of the direct question of how much investment in research and development would be if there were no such measure, users estimated that this amount would be 76% of existing investments. Furthermore, it was found that this would be the most important measure to promote innovative and innovative activities in Croatia according to the total volume of money. It means where we talk about incentives in the private sector. Statistically confirmed positive impact of tax incentives on the costs incurred for research and development, and results show that on each... The loss of tax revenue averages an additional investment and research and development of 19 June. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this is about one measure, which had quite a solid effect. The users, however, have also proposed some measures to improve. The first was to simplify the procedure, which is unfortunately, as we know the standard pain of Croatia, where most often, exactly the procedure is at this lower level, which prevents economic development from achieving support and so on. Further, better co-ordination between the Ministry of Science and Education, which was then the holder of the measures and the Ministry of Finance. Furthermore, the creation of user guides, the introduction of differences, between different types of projects, among other things the difference between small and large and the extension of the period during which the tax loss can be transferred from 5 to 10 years. As for some numerical indicators, in the last year, when, while the old rule was in force, the number of users was 105 and the amount of projects for which the support was achieved was 618.2 million kuna. Of which, the total amount of tax relief achieved, reached from 124 million kuna. The number of users of micro-enterprises was 38.1% of small enterprises 30.5% and mid-areas 20%, which shows that the measure was well-tangulated by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, for which it was primarily intended. Further research by De leutra for 2014 has further pointed out that most companies are aware of the existing tax reliefs for research and development, but their application is also risky, and that it considers red tape to promote tax relief complicated. So it's a framework and these were indicators of actually implementing that original measure. Now, on the trail of this, this new law, which is part of a wider package, is being drawn up, where it will join the application manual rulebook and, in particular, on a line application that will develop there. In that sense, it brings some benefits to users, which it would point out this way. First, compared to the previous measure, clearer and more detailed rules of application, evaluation and exercise of the right to support. Other publicly published instructions for applicants providing detailed guidance from the way in which they are registered, clarification of the terms of the examples of unacceptable costs, etc. In accordance with... manual. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Developing one whole system, to make everything more together... than it was before, in order for users to really be able to refer to the procedure and to make it easier to log in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, the notification of the evaluation via the on-line application, the support provider, further, determines the total amount of support, which is not previously available to users until tax administration solutions have been issued and clearly prescribed steps to verify the initial acceptability of the project and to verify the implementation of costs activities at the annual level. Furthermore, data on the use of the measure will be made publicly available through a single register, thus increasing transparency. Furthermore, as he would point out carefully, which is important for users, an increase in the total amount, which reduces the base of the profit tax, for eligible costs, development research projects. So 150, 125 and 100% were raised to 200%, 150% and 125%. Furthermore, it would highlight the regular monitoring of the implementation of projects and the costs achieved at the annual level, as well as the possibility of amending the previously reported dynamics of the implementation of activities and costs in justified circumstances. Of course we know that, in practice, certain problems may arise, exceptional circumstances, to which the dynamics themselves need to be changed, and in this sense they will come to the benefit of support users. Furthermore, there are also advantages for the supporter, so when, when previous support and while it has been implemented, certain shortcomings have been observed in terms of the evaluation process itself, the possibility of reporting the type of projects that are to be reported, which are to be eliminated by this time. First, clear objectives of the measure are defined; secondly, indicators are required to measure the effectiveness of the measures. So they'll be later defined by the rulebook. Furthermore, clearly defined criteria, which the project must meet, can be considered a research development project. So something must be new, creative, uncertain, systematic, and portable, that is, it should be possible to repeat. Furthermore, a check on the ground has been made possible, support has been returned and the amount of support that can be achieved through this measure is defined, means users per project, up to 300 000 euros for basic research, up to 200 000 for industrial research and up to 100 000 for mainly experimental development. Furthermore, maximum amounts of support are defined, 40m euros for basic research, 20 for industrial and 15 for experimental periods. To extract projects whose costs are related to certain activities, which actually have nothing to do with technological development, I particularly highlight the issue of financial services. We know that the previous support was largely used by financial institutions, so that, in fact, some things that can't be called technological development, reported as innovation, or as a process of research that goes towards innovation to get a relief. In this sense, I believe it won't be possible anymore. Furthermore, the important thing is to enable insight throughout the implementation of the measures and to allow reporting to authorities at national and international level. So that whole system is making it easier. Furthermore, what is particularly important, which is useful for both users and support providers, concerns the transitional period between the beginning of 2015 and today. We had a situation that after the previous rules stopped being in force, we still had projects that were approved before that, so before the end of 2014 but continued to be implemented after 2015. Since it was one of the real ones, enough, I will not tell the dubious one, but perhaps a little gray zone, this way and through this law, this situation has completely resolved. And I think it's certainly important to emphasize. So, in short, we think that this law is good, and I am glad that some first-reading remarks have been adopted, if I am not wrong about the comments of my colleague Jovanovic, that the concept of researchers is defined, so certainly the HDZ Club supports this law. However, it would mention one other thing, which I think is a good place, and it concerns other measures to encourage research and development. So we here have a tax relief system and it is useful and so far applied in practice has shown that a lot of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are using it, however, the fact is that there are other mechanisms and instruments that can be useful, for example if you have one startup small firm and should be encouraged to invest in research and development and have maybe... for that, but lack of capital, tax relief is not perhaps an ideal instrument for the simple reason that they actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some kind of profit, some kind of income, and it doesn't help someone start, doesn't initiate someone to start and not initiate research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that sense it is not part of this law, but I think it should certainly be considered that both in the long term and through other regulations and through other ministries consider creating one system of subsidies, i.e. incentives, research and development through certain subsidies in order to make both small and medium entrepreneurs and persons with the idea... with the knowledge to launch certain innovations, that they could also be helped. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I also know when the law was passed and on the task force that some other measures were being discussed that are not here for now, but that need to be considered. One of them is to encourage the employment of our young researchers of doctors of science outside the scientific system, i.e. a system of higher education. So we know we had there in 2005, 6. The 7th large inflow of new PhDs, scientific recruits into the system that they then doctored, but for many of them there was no place in the system, and this way I would point out that the way to think about these people who have certain skills and who are very useful in the labour market and who represent the elite, conditionally speaking of this society, should also consider a system of certain reliefs so that they can be employed in the real sector and perhaps also in the state, or public administration, public services. Alternatively it will happen that many of these people will go to work west for much better conditions and we will lose them maybe forever. So we certainly support this law, we believe that it is of quality, that it will help targeted users in a similar way how it helped that previous measure, with the improvements mentioned, but that further strengthening measures should be considered in order to encourage investment in research, development and in young scientists, researchers in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89905	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next on behalf of SDP representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89906	Dear Secretary of State with his associates. The SDP Club will support this bill since we consider it to provide a parallel basis for supporting research development projects in the form of an additional reduction in the base of profit tax, i.e. income tax for eligible costs of research development projects, i.e. for cost of feasibility studies, which will act as an incentive to the environment for research and development, to encourage investment of the private sector in research and development, to provide greater incentives for projects for small and medium-sized enterprises, and to further promote the business sector's interest in co-operation with scientific organisations. We believe that this law can contribute to improving the climate in Croatia when it comes to investing in research and development where unfortunately we are quite lagging behind. As fellow Sokol said, we also thank you for respecting the remarks we made during the first reading where, among other things, it was not defined as being a researcher. This proposal makes it clear who we can think of as a researcher and I think that's good. What I must also say on behalf of the club is that we are dissatisfied that yet we have not tried optimistically to set the target of the amount of gross domestic product achieved by 2020, which remained at 1.4, we know that Europe already has a goal 3, and if we are behind double, I don't think that's good. Well, at least as the goal we're trying to achieve, we need to be more optimistic. I said it was good to include the definition of researchers that reads: The researcher is an expert involved in creating concepts or creating new knowledge that produces research and improves or develops concepts, theories, models, instrumentation techniques, software or operational methods. What I must stress in this debate, as part of my predecessors said, therefore Europe has its own strategy, a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and development, which aims at research and development by 2020, is set out 3% of gross domestic product. The share of Croatia currently stands at 0.85% for research and development and is far from the EU member states' average, which is already close to 2.4%. Also, what is specific to Croatia and what is contrary to trends in the EU's most developed countries, most of these funds, as much as 59% are public expenditure. A large part of this comes as a consequence of the structure of the Croatian economy in which 92% of all companies are micro-enterprises with an average of 1.9 employees, so it is clear that such a structure is also a very limited potential for innovation and investment in research and development. Although the average innovation index grew from 0.260 in 2007 to 0,302 in previous years, Croatia remained in a group of moderate innovators with below average results and lagging behind, for example. After Hungary or neighbouring Slovenia double, there is 0.508. A good indicator is also the European Patent Office, which published its 2016 report, according to which 2016 was a record by number of patents of 96,000, which was an increase of as much as 40% compared to 2015. More than 296 000 patent applications were received in 2016, which is also a record annual application project and an increase of as much as 6.2% compared to 2015. Unfortunately, Croatia does not follow these trends, with 3.2 European patent applications per million inhabitants, we are only 41st among 48 ranked countries. A similar low rating Croatia also takes up according to other criteria, according to the absolute number of patents reported Croatia is 26th place from 28 countries, or 31st place from 38 countries that are members of the EPO. In some ways, it encourages a relative increase in the number of applications from Croatia compared to 2015, where we came from 30 to 41. What fellow Sokol also spoke of in some ways is a key problem for both the Croatian academic community and the Croatian economy. So our science doctors usually stay at the university. So there's only 15% of them in the economy. In the US economy, 75% of doctors in science, in Europe 50%, it is also the key to better success and Croatian universities, then the GDP will probably be bigger and there will be more money for our academic community. Therefore, I also agree with other proposals which go towards investing more in research and development, with all these support from this law. In order to step up cooperation between science and the economy, incentives are needed both in the economy and in the public sector, it is also necessary to involve the Doctors of Science in the economy and not to spend their entire lives in the academic community and in some way remain in theory alone. This law goes in that direction, so we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89907	Thank you to my colleague, Želj Jovanovic, on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, for the next debate on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89908	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with my colleagues, my colleague, my dear colleagues. I think for a very short time that I have had most of the presentations for the first reading, and this way I thank you for the distinguished remarks that you have had and I accept from those three observations the third which is not respected in this second reading, or has not been changed, and it is about a period of 3 years so that this deadline and more times can be used in the phases of the project because what I asked for the last time here in front of this speaker was that at least for 5 years some, not limited to 3, because some projects, because here we are talking about projects of several hundred thousand euros so that this shorter deadline would not somehow bind us. However, we accept the explanation regarding the transfer of tax reliefs, as well as the possibility of the extent of the applications themselves. So, very briefly, as far as investment in research and development is concerned, I think that throughout history we have had different industrial revolutions and everything and I don't think we can talk about any industrial revolutions anymore, that there's something going on today that's up to date, tomorrow it's already... Therefore, from day to day, from week to week, year to year hastily accelerated, new things and new ways of fostering and earning, or developing, the economy are discovered at an accelerated pace. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, that research and development has a great role to play in achieving national income and that these percentages that we have heard here, and we certainly can't be satisfied with today, but we have to do well to recognize them both by these measures and by this law and what we're going to do to increase them if I'm not mistaken that we have about 1.5 goals in terms of the share in GDP, 1.5% of the share in GDP, of course we're looking at and how it's distributed between the business, that is, the private and the state sector, and of course we always have to pursue private, or we have to... Half-half, a little less in favour of the state sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I mentioned and then was about the twists that we included them in this story. And I'll just tell you one thing, let's say it can be called an anecdote that I've had the opportunity to hear from the Finnish ambassador, or read his statements. In fact, I think it was some recession in the '80s and they found themselves facing the problem, which, as a matter of fact, they didn't know how to respond adequately to that recession and they cut everything, absolutely everything, except two things, one was investing in education and the other was that the maltenes were hotly said that all investments in RND, i.e. research and development or development were exactly what we're talking about here. So all the profits, so tax-recognized, means the cost. And to refuse the obligation to pay the profits. And what happened to them? So they said that, so everything you should pay for the profits if you invest in research and development we recognize to you as paying for the profits themselves. And Nokia happened to them as a symbol, just that research and development, a symbol of progress. Of course later history will show that this Nokia also did not recognize certain modern trends of smartphones, etc., so it lost large, or almost all the market, now it's coming back through another brand, etc., now let's not advertise. But I think it's a great indicator in the modern world, which means research and development. Where we go as an economy, which are modern economic branches, what is a smart industry. Not only are we talking about pharmacies and that technology that is most visible where we know that something has to be constantly explored and a number of other industries, the creative industry, so where we can certainly foster new added value in production and of course in services where, if we talk in these games, so on computer, etc., where there is also in developing software applications and everything that is especially happening with me in Osijek and for many years now and that... that I can say despite the state's and local self-government's help. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here I would take advantage of actually one, paraphrasing a shipment of English where we should always be careful and these are like the scariest words in English that could happen. ‘I'm from the management and I'm here to help.’. So, for something that is not only happening with us, but something that is far and far and far in the world, it is recognised that if there is something further complicated and disabled, etc., and as anything under the auspices of aiding, as well as in good cause, and with good intentions that we must recognize and look after such things. So I'm talking about this law, which we'll absolutely support on behalf of the club, we need more of these things, this isn't the only thing and it can't be just this, so it won't do anything about it. But surely, as we talked about education, a lot of those wheels, a lot of those little steps, will lead us to the end of this great journey, at the end of that great journey, which we must go as soon as possible, at a faster pace. And to be careful every time, and to listen to what you're saying, means when the contests start, which are these remarks, where we're wrong, where it's slowed down, it means absolutely communicating with stimulating users, not only information that they know they can use these reliefs, and for what purpose, but also what bothers them. So that's where we have to be absolutely clear, service to the economy, service to these companies, and that's when we know that we're actually going to succeed, and when the least we need and the state needs to interfere to get back to this phrase, and then we know that we're going somewhere and that something's come true somewhere. So, I'm really not going to be long now and repeat everything I've already said, we absolutely support, in the right direction we go a lot more of these things, because we need to be aware that already today what is going on will be a few years old and that we have to keep investing in our products, in our education system, to deal with times that will certainly not forgive the unhappiness and... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89909	Thank you, colleagues, and last debate on behalf of the club of representatives of Anka Mrak Taritas, on behalf of the Club of Representatives GLAS and HSU, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89910	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, here we have in our second reading, a law on state support for research development projects, such as in the right reading of the GLAS Club and HSU supports this law, will support it in another reading. For what reason, the first reason is that if a country wants to show itself, as a country that goes forward, as a country, where some things matter to it, it's important to have this law too, because it shows its face and shows where it wants to go. Equally, the reasons why this law is, one is to encourage research, then development projects and innovations are a key element of European policies. And there is no secret and there is nothing that Croatia is at 0.85%, while Europe wants to be at 3% of GDP by 2020. So one effort that we can make, we said in our first reading, so it might be a little underly ambitious that Croatia wants to be at 1.4 by 2020 or should be realistic. In life if you set yourself too high or too high a goal, then you will immediately give up on them, for you will say I cannot reach. So this is one real goal. This law, in fact, should do the following, this law should solve everything, or at least try to solve and show that effort, for all that Europe and the European Commission have judged us not to be well, that we do not have a systematic innovation policy, the assumption is that this law should enable us to do so. Negative economic environment, I'm afraid there should be a number of other laws, that there should also be tax policy, so that we can settle it. The third is the participation of the business sector, which should be greater and let us hope that this law will actually send a message to the employers that this is possible. The fourth is the lack of innovation capacity of the business sector and the fifth is that we have a small number of appropriate industrial research. The law can be the best in this world, it can be ideal, but if we do not properly apply it, we will have another law, which we will say we have good, fine, European law, but we have a problem with it because it does not apply and that is the effort that the public sector always needs, where the state needs to make its move, its efforts. Because the ultimate goal should actually be to develop individual products, services and processes in Croatia. And so, on the one hand, we support this law, because this law shows Croatia is a country where it matters in which it is important, but this would not be the first or the last law, where we have legislative frameworks right and we have a little different reality. So let me, perhaps, say a few sentences about the reality in which we live and where we all live together and with the executive authority, and we also need to make a certain effort, that is, a certain step. The fact is that young people leave Croatia. One analysis was made by an employers' association, modelling 600 people who left Croatia, where they were asked in different ways why they left. Among those 600 young people who left Croatia, 10% were masters and doctors of science. And the reason why they left Croatia was, in fact, each other, it wasn't even if they didn't have a job, that they didn't have adequate income, but they were bothered by the environment. I went to the science doctor's graduation yesterday. Yesterday in Croatia, 380 doctors of science were promoted, the promotion about the promotion was in 10 each other in 14 I was in this 14th Technical Faculty. And I watched carefully what were the topics of these doctors, the new doctors of science. I was watching, I was even curious about a little age, to see if they were younger or older people, and I was wondering how the college schedule was. For example, with technologically, from a textile technology college was a colleague promoted to Doctors of Science from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, or, it was a university, it was in my time... Now it's the FER for electronics and computing, and I stopped counting somewhere on 50. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Over 50 doctors of science, that means it's a college that I've been looking at a little bit of the topics that have been, so it's a college that educates people who can get a job, not only in Croatia, but I can get a job outside and it's a college that actually invests in science and I hope there were people among them who are from the real sector, who are not just from college. I find it hard to believe that everyone who only works science is in college. The same way that it was medicine, then all these others were on, say, five, six to ten. Today in the world in which we live, conditions are much different than they were before. Today, young people will graduate from college, even doctorate... The speaker doesn't understand....a moment important and then he'll be dealing with something else. And why we have to wonder what we want to be in the future, what kind of Croatia we want to see and what some others do. When you look over a big bar in America, then what you can conclude is this. That's where science doctors work at universities, part of them work on projects, part of them work in the real sector. That there's one more thing there is that when you go to doctoral school, you even work, even at that college for people who come from Europe and there's another thing, and that's that you're all education and that you work all the time. And that's something, from America comes a number of things I wouldn't agree with, but there comes a series of things we can see from there. So why does America keep going forward? Because they work all the time. They keep investing in themselves, they keep investing in their knowledge, they always want to be better and they want to be better not in the village, they want to be better in the city. It will therefore be interesting to see, interestingly perhaps follow from these newly promoted doctors of science how many of them, how many of them are working in science, how many are working in the real sector, how many even they will no longer be dealing with topics that are related to their basic or will deal with something else. However, the knowledge they have, the experiences they have, the methodologies they have learned will not be taken away from them in any way. I have to admit, and that's where I'm going to end up with that story, but I watched very, very carefully because I was interested. There were, like, two doctoral papers that were applicable tomorrow. One doctoral work was from the Faculty of Chemistry where a lady was doing doctoral work in a way that removed certain particles from the mud resulting from wastewater purifiers. So each of us, here there are parliamentary representatives who are general practitioners, I'm not that parliamentary representative, I do certain things and I trust other colleagues and I don't. But let's just say one of the things that I'm absolutely dealing with, and I've been dealing with, and that's the problem of cleaning up wastewater and we even have devices, but we haven't found the technology and the way to solve the mud from these devices, so I found it extremely interesting to see this doctoral work and the other doctoral work was one fellow from the Faculty of Civil Engineering, which, therefore, was on the subject of how the mud from the wastewater treatment device was used in the production of concrete products. So ideal two doctoral work where you can see perfectly in the real world how to apply it because it's something that's the problem. The mud from the wastewater treatment plant of the city of Zagreb at the moment is, since, of course, about 20 years ago when the project began, it was then the idea that the mud which, if it were dried up, would then be going to the ores and not bother agricultural production, in the meantime it was concluded that it was not so. With this mud, the city of Zagreb does not know what to do, and there are two doctoral works that give a certain answer. Imagine a project that would come in line with this law for support and that could be solved, I am talking about a wastewater treatment device for the city of Zagreb because it is the largest. However, everyone in their municipalities and cities will have these devices that are mechanical and biological. In the mechanical process, there remains a mud with which no one knows what they're going to do. It's an ideal match for each other. So that's what we do in this country and the way we function is missing. Everyone works in their niche, in their environment and even by horizontal and even by vertical and there is no intercompatibility. So that moment is at least two of the work that's stuck in my eye because it's something I'm dealing with and what I know about a lot would be applicable in the real, real world, with good contact and with good conditions. To go back to this law, in the debate in the first reading, we are on behalf of the club when she spoke to her colleague Pusic then pointed out and you did not accept our remarks, but that is not the reason why we still do not vote for this law because maybe some of the things that we have pointed out were not the right time to accept, and maybe you will do something through application and there will be changes and additions, but it is better, so I think that the better laws are passed by law, we have certain frameworks, but rather to pursue some ideal option. It was one thing of openness, the public of the whole process, and everyone involved, and you showed me why you couldn't, why it was incompatible with each other, and one thing that I was talking about on the Legislative Committee, and then you tried to convince me that it was regulated by some other regulations, which is the level of support, that is, when one project gets its support if the EU, or before the Commission, is being analysed and if the support is found not to be used, or not to be used, but that it was not properly, there is no responsibility of the competent ministry, but the one who got it will bear that consequence, and in that case, it will have to sue the state. What am I saying? Someone applies for support, gets support, and then the commission finds out he shouldn't have won it. I would not say that there is responsibility on the one who gets it because in good faith he went for support, but that there is a responsibility of the ministry and you explained in response why it is in a special regulation so let's believe that it is in a special regulation, or regulation that regulates it. It seemed better to us that it would be in this regulation but let's say we're not going to look at those negative things, let's look at some positive options and positive variations with a desire for this law to be, and the vote is on the 13th, so the assumption is, because on behalf of the clubs all we discussed we discussed in this sense to be passed. But let's all work together, it's the basic responsibility of the ministry that this law doesn't remain a dead letter on paper, let's say we have a law and that some other assembly of Parliament, at another point, is talking about support and that it remains 0.85% or 0.9, let's at least say that it's 1.4 there in 2021, 2020, 2021, because we're in this way, and it made sense to pass the law, and in this way to really show that this is important to us, that important people who are able to do this, and that maybe some other research shows that fewer people are going out and that there are not those 10% with masters and doctorates because that's what's important to this country too. There are no steps if you don't have people who think differently, who are willing to work differently, who are willing to deal with science and research and because of this and affirmatively there was also a debate on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89911	Thank you, too. And on behalf of the promoter, finally, State Secretary Mr. Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89912	Dear Chairman, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, I thank you all for a constructive debate. Certain things between first and second reading, certain remarks are accepted, some are not. What I would like to say in my closing statement is that, in fact, if such a law did not come as a continuity in 1.1.2015, and we would probably be discussing certain effects and effects of such a law today, so we lost almost 3 years. The following fact is very important that, at the end of 2020, when existing cyber rules cease to apply, there will have to be changes to this law in order to comply with the new cyber regulation, so we believe that 2.5 years of application of the law will result in certain results and effects, and I believe that we will also notice certain shortcomings that we will have the opportunity to apply, or change. As for others, these are tax incentives through this law that are given to invest in research and development. I would also like to point out that many programmes or competitions are current within our ministry. 1 is actually finished where it is divided, i.e. it will be divided around 800 million kuna, by the end of the year a new... a 500 million kuna Allocation contest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also CECOM is a competition that also relys heavily on the cooperation of scientific research institutions and economies where 105m euros are available and there are also numerous competitions for innovation firms, for start-ups and the like. Also, the Investment Encouragement Act encourages investment in services and high value added products, so I believe that a combination of all these measures simply needs to get results and no one happier than us to bring that result closer to 2% of GDP stakes than the 1.4% set. It is already the responsibility itself, so for the first time in the history of the Republic of Croatia, this Law on the Encouragement and Research of Development is in the power of the Ministry of Economy. I believe it is a sign in which we are going, that we want the active cooperation of the scientific community in the Croatian economy. Well, I believe and I hope that law gets what it's meant for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89913	Thank you, Secretary of State. This is also the conclusion of the debate on the final proposal of the State Support Act for Research Development Projects. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89914	Final proposal of the State Support Act for research development projects, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal for an act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, with us we have respected Natasa Mikush, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. We're going to the first amendment, that's the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89915	Dear Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. The amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 16(1) shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89916	It becomes an integral part of the bill. And now we're going to amendment two, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89917	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The legislator considers that the proposed increase in the process of eligible costs for industrial research and experimental development is sufficient to encourage entrepreneurs to increase investment in R & D activities since this proposal already increases the percentage of eligible costs by 25 to 50% compared to the previous legal solution. We believe that the monitoring of the application of this law will, of course after its adoption, show the real effect of this increase and, taking into account further that EU regulations governing the areas of state aid, that they apply from 31 December 2020 and that there will then be changes to the laws relating to state support by the basis of the monitoring of the effects proposed by this proposal of the law and, of course, in the course of the amendments to the new legislative proposals that will follow these amendments to the State aid Regulation, we believe that further increases can also be considered in the way that this is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89918	Thank you. Appreciation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, a respected colleague of Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89919	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in 2016, Slovenia invested 2% of GDP in research and development, the Republic of Croatia placed it according to the Education Strategy and this law we have not had since 2015 as a target for 2020. 1.4% of GDP. So that's extremely low. And you're saying that's enough incentive for tax relief. So if you look at the composition of the Republic of Croatia's economy, you'll see that over 98% are small entrepreneurs. I ask you in which way it is encouraging that 125% be acceptable tax reliefs for experimental development when it brings new prototypes, new research and others, and 150% give research study, means the very analysis of the cost-effectiveness study of research. How will these small entrepreneurs invest in studies for which you give 150% of the support or tax relief while you only give 125% for experimental development? So we're surprised that a lot of youth stations are leaving and we're not investing enough in development research, why we're restricting tax relief when every one who, we should welcome, means who invests in experimental development, in industrial research, so let's give people tax relief, let's give people tax incentives to invest in research and development because it's the holder of the economy, so Europe 2020 says, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89920	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on State Support for Research Development Projects. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 91 for, 2 abstentions have been passed the State Support Act for research development projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89921	We continue with the following debate, which is: - Proposed by the Law on Wires, first reading, P.Z. No. 357; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure of Ms. Nikolina Brnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89922	Honorable Vice President, respected MPs and respected MPs. The Law on cableways for the transport of persons provides an essential requirement for the design, production, construction, construction and operation of cableways for the transport of persons, conditions for the safety of the operation of the cableway and the safety of persons using the cableways. With a view to harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of cableways and meeting the obligations of application of Regulation (EC) 2016/424 of 21 April 2018, a proposal for a cableway law establishing a legal framework for the implementation of the Regulation and setting out the Ministry of Transport as bodies implementing the notification of a conformity assessment body and a language in which data, guidance, information, documentation and other documents and the EU declaration of conformity as well as a safety analysis and a safety report must be required. The proposal for a law on cableways enables the safety of cableways at the time of their construction, release and during their work to determine the appropriate procedures for the approval of new and existing cableways. It shall be ensured that cableways can only be used if they comply with the Regulation and do not threaten to endanger the health or safety of persons or property when properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with their purpose. In relation to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons who have determined that concessions in the area of cableway can be granted for the economic, use of general or other goods, for public works or public services, the proposal for a law on cableways provides that the owner of a cableway or an investor is obliged to give concession to a cabler as a concession for the economic use of general or other goods for which the law provides that it is good of interest for the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of using a space passing by the railway route itself or for the purpose of the use of the property to which the cabler infrastructure is built, owned by the Republic of Croatia, a unit of local or regional self-government. The concession providers and whose revenue is from the concession fee and the time limit on which the concession itself is granted and that the concession may be granted exclusively at the request of the owner of the cableway or investor, if the existing or planned economic activity of the economic operator at a specific location appears to be the subject of concessions for which the request is submitted to an indivisible technological or functional whole and the concession is exclusively for the performance of that economic activity. It shall determine the jurisdiction and the procedure in which concessions are awarded through a public tender, the manner of notification of the purpose of the concession when it begins and when the concession procedure itself ends. Immuno-legal relations shall be determined in the event that the Republic of Croatia, the units of local or regional self-government, the investor or the owner of the cableway is not the owner of the property or part of the property on which it is located or will be located the infrastructure of the cableway itself or in the case of the cableway where it is owned and controlled and whose investor is the construction of the Republic of Croatia, the unit of local or regional self-government, the body of the state administration or the legal person who is also their majority owned, and in the event that the cable infrastructure is located on unturned, which is once again not owned by them. The adoption of this law will bring the Republic of Croatia's legislation into line with the legal gains of the EU in the area of cableways, the creation of a legal framework for the implementation of Regulation 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 will align the provisions relating to the award of concessions in the area of cableways with the new concession law and ensure the safety of cableways at the time of their construction, release and during their work by laying down appropriate procedures for the approval of new and existing cableways, the examination of cableways prior to release and monitoring during operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89923	Thank you. We have two replicas. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89924	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 3 of this Law states: This Law applies to cableways for the transport of persons. And then he says what he's not applying to, and now I'm interested in this 3 says cablemen for the service of mountain shelters and houses intended solely for the transport of cargo or especially certain persons. What exactly did you mean when you said it wasn't applied to it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89925	Here's your answer. Do you want to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89926	It is precisely taken over from a regulation that we must now apply to this existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89927	Thank you. And replica number two, colleague Zekanovic Hrvoje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89928	Dear Secretary of State, if I'm not mistaken, is it? It is. There is one problem here, and that is, here I come from Sibenik, in Sibenik there has been a plan for a long time to make not cablers, but air trams and I warn you that this term could be put into this law. There's a difference between a tram and a cable car, and actually there's little difference, and it would be important to put on an air tram. And there's a plan to make it above the city. And now the question is who can give permission, it's not defined in this law, I've read, I don't see, to build a wire, if the wire passes over private parcels? So it's above my house. Or can I, as the owner of real estate, house, anything, mean no housing, disable, or prevent the construction of a cable car, or who issues a permit? Here's a problem in Sibenik that the Sibeniks can't solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89929	Thank you. Can you answer it or will you answer it later? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89930	So this is how Article 23 stands for you in case the Republic of Croatia, the local or regional regional self-government unit, the investor or owner no longer owns property or works of real estate located or will be located means the cable infrastructure, the future concessionary is required before the conclusion of the concession contract to regulate property legal relations through the authorisation, the right of service contract or other regulations. The concession provider is obliged to sign such an obligation by the future concessionaire in the documentation for only competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89931	Thank you. We're moving on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Maria Jelkovac and her colleague Pero Ćosic? Thank you. That's how I open the discussion. The first reported colleague, Pero Ćosic, is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Wires which further aligns our legislation with the acquis of the EU or, as the proposaler has already explained. Directive 2000/9 of the European Community of March 2000 is hereby put into force and a legal framework for the implementation of EU Regulation 2016/424 is hereby established. The provisions relating to the award of concessions in the area of cableways are also harmonised with the new Law on concessions that we adopted last year, and the proposal for this Law on cableways contains an important paper and improvement in relation to the applicable law, these improvements relate to the construction of new cableways, concessions, the obligations of the administrator and cable manager to the conditions and approvals for work, maintenance of cableways, safety analysis, expert technical examination, and questions of inspection supervision and certain infringements have been elaborated. Compared to the current Law on cableways for the transport of persons, this current bill determines that concessions... The cableway provides as a concession for the economic use of general and other goods for which the law is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, and what is important to point out that the concession for the purpose of using the space passing the route of cableways or for the purpose of using the property on which the cableway infrastructure is built is given on request or public tender. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal provides that concessions are to be exempt from cableways owned or controlled or whose investor is the construction of the Republic of Croatia, the local or regional self-government units, the body of the state administration or the legal person who is in their majority ownership. The proposed law also lays down the jurisdiction of the concessionor, the compensation, the time limit on which the concession is given, the concession procedures at the request or the procedures by public tender and the obligation to resolve the property of the legal relationship and exactly what his colleague Zekanovic asked, means when the Republic of Croatia and local self-government of investors, any other investor, the owner of the cabler, does not own the property or parts of the property on which the cabler's infrastructure is located, or will be located, that future concessionary is required before the conclusion of the concession contract to regulate the property legal relations, whether through contracts or contracts on the right of service or other way signed by a special regulation. The concession is given for 5 to 50 years and I think it is good that the concessions given over 20 years need the previous consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law ensures greater safety of cableways at the time of their construction, start of use as well as during their work as they determine the procedures for approval, review and use of new and existing cableways. It is of paramount importance to continue the approval for the operation of the cableways after a professional technical examination only for a year, since it reaffirms the correct cableway every year, or demonstrates their safety for passengers and property. In order to avoid a threat to the health and security of persons or property in the draft law, attention is paid to infringements and high fines for offenders are prescribed. Legally speaking, the problem of cableways is as complex as it best describes the fact that this bill ceases to apply as many as 10 regulations and that the ministry should adopt a series of regulations, i.e. under legal acts that are closer to regulating certain legal provisions. However, although the area is wide about cableways, as well as the problems facing this area of transport, a little debate is being held in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps because at the moment in the Republic of Croatia we have 16 built cableways of which 10 cablemen have been approved for work issued by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure on the basis of the annual expert technical examination carried out, it is the hanging cable car with the Dubrovnik Srđ cabin, the climber in Zagreb, ski seats and tows on the ski grounds of Sljemen, Delnice, Platka and Mukinja. Unfortunately, so many cable companies on average have one smaller ski area in Austria or Italy. In the world, the cablers are often proud and the main attraction of a city, we can also be proud because we have the shortest climber in the world with a 66m rail and this old Zagreb lady is a symbol of the metropolis, bearing the title of the safest and oldest means of public transportation for passengers in Zagreb and over a century of her work and driving to the upper city has not been recorded any accidents, and every year this cabler transports 750,000 citizens and tourists. Many countries have developed this mode of transport and have taken advantage of its advantages. For example. Bolivia jumped into the city’s crowds by travelling with its cable car a day from Lapaza to another part of the city and climbing up to 4000 feet [4,000 m]. Of course, this cable car, except for the people of the city, is also a tourist attraction, for a tour of the tourist attractions of the city and the surrounding area, and this tour can take 3 hours of tourist tour. However, the cablers are not built overnight, the construction of the world's steepest cable car, the one in Switzerland that was completed last year, worked for 14 years while you were building these standards, but the new modern cablers and safer cablers on Medvednica, so the one that will unload the existing transport infrastructure to Sljemen and increase the number of visitors we have been waiting for for 10 years, and the deadlines are constantly extended and we only have faith in the promise of the mayor of Zagreb that this Sljemenska cable will be completed in full profile by the start of the Snow Queen next year. Construction of cableways to Učka is also planned, and we hope that those on Biokovo and these cableways will certainly enrich the tourist offer from sea to mountains. Construction of a cable is expensive and long-term work, I said, and in order to be a cost-effective cable car has to be translated by a very large number of passengers. However, it should be pointed out that such investments cannot be viewed only through the number of passengers, but we must look at the light of more attractive tourist, sports and transport offers, which will ultimately bring new passengers and needs for commercial work and cableways themselves. We know that the restoration of one pre-war Adriatic cableman was destroyed in the Homeland War, the Dubrovnik core for a long time and because of the lack of adequate concession processes that were regulated by this, now applicable law, as well as other disputes between the city and concessionaires faced a lot of problems, but here I think recently this issue has been resolved, I hope for both the mutual benefit of both the city and the investors, that is, the concessionaires. In the end, I would point out that cableways are not a classic commercial product, although I can certainly serve for commercial purposes. The steepest, longest, highest, fastest, these are concepts that connect to the cableways and are often apart from the attraction of a particular environment, are considered to be modern technical achievements and symbolise the prosperity of a particular environment or state. Therefore, we should look at the cableways in the context of fostering the development of the environment in which they are located, and the construction of cableways is of paramount importance for each local community because concession fees can also be the revenue of the budget of local self-government units. For all of this, I expect that the adoption of this law will facilitate the way towards new investment and investment in cableways, as well as one of the particularly attractive modes of transport. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Wires Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89933	Thank you. Next on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU is counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89934	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished State Secretary with an associate. In our first reading, we have the Wires Act. This Law on cableways is actually in line with EU legislation and this law defines the conditions for safety at the time of construction, release and safety during work. This law applies to cableways which are for the transport of persons and in Article 3 are the conditions and criteria to which they do not apply. I asked the esteemed secretary of state through the replica, what does that mean for these vests that are for... I understand the directive, I understand that we must apply the directive, but somehow it would always be good to see it in the context of our own legislation and our own examples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to cableways, there's a few things to be taken care of. The first thing is that the law clearly states that in terms of spatial planning, construction is subject to the provisions of the Law on Spatial Planning, or the Construction Act. Then you define the route of the cableway, then you determine where this route is going, and that route is certainly and certainly different if we talk about urban space from a space that is not urban, so that already through the route the cableways should take care of those elements there, of course, where it is possible that when it comes to the construction area, it affects as few buildings as possible because, of course, in some parts of the cities and parts of the settlement, if your cable is going above the house, it will cause it in a certain way. The provision of Article 23, if I am not mistaken, and I think I speak well, speaks of property-legal relations and says it is resolved either by concession or by contracts or otherwise. It's about like when you've got a power line going somewhere and then there's houses out there, there's some houses that can be in the corridor, there's some that I can't. So, when it comes to cableways, you have to take great care of the planning phase because from the planning phase when the route is planned, it's hard to give up. The cableways are listed here as infrastructure facilities, which they really are. It is also defined how concessions and concessions go to airspace, and what is particularly interesting, the provision of Article 20 of this Act sets out the award of concessions and says that there is a possibility of concessions that are exempted from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, but also what is extremely important, and this is Article 21 and the concession on request. So when it was the Law on concessions and it was discussed, it was legislation in the field of the same ministry, then, on several occasions, at certain expert meetings, it was explained that they could not concession on request. That's why I'm extremely glad that from this ministry when it comes to wire is defined as being able to concession on demand. What exactly am I talking about? Something that doesn't matter in the sense of wire, but it has to do with concessions on demand. So when it comes to something that is in the sense of nauticalism or in the sense of use, the sea has shown us extremely useful, which is the whole of Kornati and our coast where you have restaurants located by the sea itself. These houses were either legal or not, the Law on Legalisation gave the possibility of legalisation and those outside their restaurant have a berth for yachts or sailboats. You tie up that one mole where you can 10, 12 boats arrive in principle is illegal. They don't have that concession and then when it was somehow an idea to try to regulate it through your law in a way that they can also have a concession on demand, then there was a huge resistance of the ministry that was responsible for it and it was about the same ministry, explaining that concessions can't go on demand but in concessions are going to go on public procedure, so then concession can get another restaurant, I won't even tell you what we would do in case someone has a restaurant and their boat mall that comes in and that way they'll have dinner and lunch or I don't know, and the concession gets someone else. Therefore, I would very much like this provision to be applied to concessions, so that it should be applied to other legislation coming from this ministry because if a concession can be applied here on request, I do not see that it can't be there. Where it is said, to return to the subject of cableways, this law would indeed be necessary, in this provision of Article 3, to specify a little more precisely what the law does not apply and to define in more detail the concessions and these exemptions, perhaps that the concession on request should also go in a more detailed manner and we have inspectors. So what we're very prone to, we tend through our legislation to define strict conditions so also here for the inspector for 5 years of work and all those conditions, the question is that maybe the time has come for that thing a little bit, I'll say a little liberalization, that maybe they have a little less years, maybe we put it on the 3 because the question is whether we're going to be able to get the right fit to do that job. And the next story, when it comes to inspection, should somehow link what's in the announcement and what the Prime Minister said by the end of the year, one big inspectorate, and I'm interested in saying, these are very specific inspectors, so for specific tasks, for a specific way whether they will go to that great inspectorate or the ministry will fight to keep these inspectors in their jurisdiction and we'll see, it'll be interesting to see what happens to these inspectors. Otherwise, Croatia had the opportunity to withdraw certain funds from the EU related to the construction of cableways as infrastructure facilities but of course not one cableway but to be a whole project, and there was the idea of cableways from Sljema, cableways for Učka and cableway from Makarska to Biokovo where we recently saw that a tourist visited Bikovo in the trailers as usual. These three cablemen would in their own sense cause a single step, so the one that goes to Učka and the one that goes to Makarska so we don't talk about Sljemen. Otherwise, I can't really talk about the railroads, so I don't refer to the Medvednica and the sledgehammer. So Sljeme is your daily stay of the city of Zagreb. It was traditional to go from land to land. Sljema is the part where on Saturday mornings or Sundays after lunch, there was a little walk. In 2007, the mayor of the city of Zagreb was challenged with nothing, which is the same and is now the same, said that the cable is going to be remounted because it is old, because it is outdated and that the cable car will be remounted very quickly and will be of course faster, better, better, more beautiful, more efficient. Unfortunately, you can't go to a cable car, say, to a mall, and buy, say, I'd have a cable car with so many cabins, so much speed, so many stops, and I'd be begging that cableman, so here's what you need, if you don't have it now, for a week, when it comes to cablers, you have to know exactly how much you want the station, how it is. Of course, it went into a very megalomanic project, so the bottom station of the cable car was supposed to be a garage for 1,100 cars, so that the cars don't go to Sljeme at all, and we're here in 2018, again we have a promise from the mayor that the cable car will be almost there. When you look at the budget of the city of Zagreb, the only money that came from the budget of the town of Zagreb related to the Slemen cable car, it was for you to make a strategic assessment of the impact on the environment and the plan or urban planning. Of course the afternoon, that the theme of the cable car can be interesting to us who, that everyone is a little tired of the great success of the Croatian football team, is difficult to come for this payphone and not to refer to the fact that it is a success but also the fact that we can all be proud of the athletes who went there, who were neither rude nor boastful, who did the job well if they lost even yesterday, we should tell them and be proud of what it is because the Croatian football team and can't mention it really in that sense were proud. But it is good, because here in this House sits the ruling coalition and the city council, which is the same today in the third paragraph, and also in this assembly, where the mayor is dead cold when he needs his hands for the budget says and is always the selenium wire theme, 50 million for the selenium wire, all right. When you see the rebalancing then the verse 50 million is reduced to 5 million, when you see consumption then this year there has been spending on making strategic assessments of environmental impact and urban planning and the wire has been over 10 years since the city of Zagreb has no cable, and unfortunately, I would not want to be... The prophet, but I'm afraid we won't see that cableman in our mayor's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's go back to that topic because I can't mention the cable companies because it's really something that shows exactly how the city of Zagreb is managed or not managed, but in this term, it's also the responsibility and the ruling coalition to deal with it a little bit and a little bit. This cable bill is correct, it's basically technical law. He gave the principle of technical law. He tried to give answers to what this law could and there was fenced, so everything from the level of spatial order, the construction was transferred to that law, it generally defines these security elements as going security and defining concession. In relation to the concession to the second reading, it would be extremely good to have little of this provision of Article 21, that is, at the request of Article 20, why the concession is and how little is explained and just as much as what fellow Zekanovic asked you, so there was one, the answer is quite principled, you read the exact provision that drinks. In reality, that's what you're going to do next. When it comes to the spatial plan, then you have to take care of the track of the cableways and make sure that the track of the cableways doesn't generally go above the houses except where it can't go otherwise. If so and when the spatial plan passes, then each individual can really suspend the construction of the cableway while the property-legal relations are resolved unless it is declared an object of importance for the state and then there is an expropriation because above some houses, some facilities can go wire and will not bother but above some quite no. In conclusion, of course, I could talk about the cableman and, in particular, Sljemenski, but in conclusion, as a club in the first reading, we'll support this bill and I'd like to ask you nicely until the second reading, these two, three things that we appreciate are not a problem, that you might explain them a little more in detail through the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89935	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, followed by counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Comrade Zekanovic, you're giving up the debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89936	Excuse me. Dear President of the Parliament, I apologize once again. Dear Secretary of State, here I am going to repeat that question from a moment ago so I will try to explain it so you can give me an answer in the final word. So when we talk about cableways that go above someone's property, you read me article 23 well, so I'm saying, it could be either the right of service or the authority or a special regulation that I assume is some kind of contract. But how do you rule out if something isn't of state interest? As far as I know, there's only one thing that can be ruled out that's of state interest, is the wire infrastructure that can even get that status? So do you understand me, the highway is clear to us, but what about the wire? And the other thing, I've already mentioned to you when we talk about cableways, there really is this one term air tram, that is, in many cities of the world, today, cableways or air trams are used as an alternative form of transport in all cities that have a great dynamic relief, which have some hills that mean, there's a high-speed difference and this form of transport is used very often. Unfortunately, in Croatia, as far as I know, there is only one such wire that leads from the city of Dubrovnik to the Sržr and so this cabler passed through the houses but at the time when this was not legally defined. And as far as I know, none of these legal models from Art. The 23rd was not used, but simply, today some compensation is paid to these people. Another thing, very important, for example. We use the authority, if the project has fallen into the category of strategic project, national interest, which is with those houses that are not directly below the track, the cableways, but are slightly left or slightly right. And yet that moving gondula, it bothers people. So this is something that should be defined. The third thing, which is if that wire is 100 meters above the house and it doesn't bother anyone, behind my house flies and planes so I don't get paid for it or not, I don't have to be taken out by the airline, because the plane flies above me. In other words, whether this law and some amendment could also define a height with the fact that it is not, in fact, clear in this article, whether or not the area above which the string of goudla is moving is clearly referred to. Here in this article you can read that it's just maybe a machine shop. So I'd like it to be explained by this law. Whether this applies to those particles, above which is the wire, or, above which the gondula moves, that is one question. The second question is how high that wire must be, or is it the same thing if it's 2m or 200m which can theoretically be. If it's 200 meters, it doesn't bother anyone. The third question is what is with those particles, i.e. the property owners, who are a little left or a little right relative to the gondola, and I think all these issues are very important and should be defined here. And finally the question, here, you'll be sure to take a look at this later and phonogram of the session itself, whether a cable car can even break into the category of strategic projects, in order to possibly make an investor, e.g. local self-government in the case of Sibenik, which has been planned for a long time, can be extracted eventually or, in some other way, damaged by owners of residential buildings or some other particles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89937	... We have no replica and last reported, as the individual debate is colleague Marko Sladolev, here's a colleague. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, we are facing a single implementation of the legal property of the EU, the national and the legal framework, i.e. the directive, as regards the security conditions, in the release of cableways on work, but also very important changes to parts of the law, which concern the award of concessions, which are not sufficiently transparent or clearly regulated with this proposal. This bill provides for improvement, in the sense that the approval for the operation of cableways also implies smaller concession contracts, which has not been the case so far. For example, from a cable company in Dubrovnik, we could see how the company... real estate, years, economic benefits and benefits obtained from the work of the cableway, without a concession contract. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about tens of millions of kuna profits in which, due to the poor legal framework of the unit of local self-government, she missed the charge. What is bad in this legislative proposal and the fact that the draft rules adopted by the Minister are not attached in the same way, which will determine the amount of concession fees, so we cannot know whether this proposal remains, whether it still suits those still operating without a concession agreement. Also in the case where the private company owns the infrastructure, the cableway, the concession is granted on request. The private company is obliged to apply for concessions to the local self-government unit, but it does not say anywhere within the time limit. In the case of Dubrovnik, it showed that it was not good, because although the city council won the contract proposal, it was still not signed because there is no concessionaire's obligation to accept it. Here, I won't last long and I'd say I'd rather talk about the Zagreb cableman, but the Zagreb cableman is gone, despite the countless promises the mayor made to his voters, but that's already a topic for another debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89939	Thanks a lot, buddy. We have four replicas on your exhibit, the first colleague is Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89940	Your Honor, I'm just taking the opportunity to say something that I forgot, whether or not this law applies to the zip line, I suppose not. But I don't know if you've met, I've been working on a zip line project, so there's a lot of different ways, moving on the zip line, literally there are gondolas. So, is the wire all that drives and the engine, if some gondola is so big, it also creates noise that it's visible, would it be fit for this law? With a zip line creating an extremely big noise. I don't know if you've ever seen him live or maybe used him. And that third thing, if from the dip line doesn't belong to this category, in other words, then something that I'm going to say by my characteristics, equally large and equally bother people, we can do, just because there's no engine. So that's something, I would do the same if it worked out a little bit through this law because it's debateable. Your zip line really has a lot of species, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89941	You want to answer. No, well, you confessed to the bar, but that's fine, half of you are forgiven, the next debate is a colleague, replica of counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89942	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, colleague of Sladolev, you have had a few sentences regarding the Sljemenski cabler, I have not resisted talking about it, and somehow I think that we are in the topic, but you are equally bound by the concession and the obligations of the cableman Srdj there is law, I would say, I have given certain elements and certain conditions, under which the inspector has certain jurisdiction and this is the relationship between the city and between the one who received the concession, or manages, and this is the obligation that the city must have on its property, as any state official when receiving any executive authority is responsible for the management of the property and for the use of the property, as well as if the city does not charge what is necessary when it comes to the cablemen for Srđ, there is indeed the responsibility of those in the city where they decide and in whose jurisdiction this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89943	Thank you. Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89944	Thank you, dear colleague Taritash. I was saying that in the case of Dubrovnik, it was proved that when this one is not clear enough because the city council adopted a proposal for a contract because it is the same and not yet signed because there is no concessionaire's obligation to accept it because the regulation should settle the issue. As far as the Zagreb cablemen are concerned, there you and I agreed in a campaign where we actually found that Zagreb was not only about the railways but about the settlement of the transport infrastructure in Zagreb did not withdraw money from the EU, we are now going to rebuild the rotors, we could get 80% of the funds for the Adriatic Bridge, so now 200 million kuna is going to rebuild the rotors that the citizens of the city of Zagreb will pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89945	Thank you. Well, if you'd gotten up to the Stubby Spas, then maybe there's something else. Next debate is a colleague of Peja's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, you said you wouldn't discuss the Zagreb cable company or have touched those topics anyway, and I must tell you that perhaps there was a little more emphasis on it. Why? Because it is not only the problem of the Zagreb cable company and because the fact that the town of Zagreb as a unit of local self-government has 1/5 of the population of the Republic of Croatia. And if we are not going to discuss what is the problem for 1/5 of the population of the Republic of Croatia and also many others who come to the city of Zagreb, then we are not doing our job as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. However, I won't stop there either, so I'm going to ask you, is the cable car actually the only problem in Zagreb? Let me know what it's like. How much, while we are talking about transport and transport infrastructure, how many kilometers, for example, have tram tracks been built for the mayor Bandic's term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89947	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89948	Yeah, I'd like to talk about the cableman, but there's nothing to talk about since she's gone. So, unfortunately. He'd talk about a concession contract and all, but he's gone. As regards the settlement of transport infrastructure in the city of Zagreb, there is the city of Zagreb at the bottom, so the European funds offer exactly that, therefore the money, the Adriatic Bridge is an example of one of these. Also the denivelisation of the Zagreb highway, we, through 8 denivelation of the Zagreb highway, would solve all the traffic in the city of Zagreb, but here, in the last term of the mayor of Zagreb, we have no indication that this would begin to be resolved at all. Transport is one of the key to the highway management plan in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89949	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89950	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't know if this is some new coalition in the City Assembly at the SDP, MOST and GLAS, but it's a long way to my colleague Sladolov, to the cable company, I know that the Swiss now seem to have let the cableman in traffic, built it for 14 years, but this might also be an opportunity to tell you that, let's say, the Macarska-Biokovo cableman, after setting up a commission in 2015, so 3 years already, we studied the environmental impact, so we took advantage of it through the Ministry of Construction, or through the Biokova Park spatial plan, so that the conditions could be prescribed or set out the idea of a solution for the cableman himself. It is a valuable project, a major project, a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia, and I am glad that there is also State Secretary Nikolina Brnjak where these things should really push for the city of Makarska or one such attractive cableway such as Makarska-Biokovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89951	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89952	Dear counterpart Babic, yes, building a cable car is a big and complex project and therefore neither mayors nor mayors nor mayors should make such an easy promise to build a cable car. So it's a more complex procedure that requires a lot of money, which needs to be done in a cost-effectiveness study, but we're constantly hitting on these projects for pre-election purposes and we end up seeing that none of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89953	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Nikolina Brnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89954	I thank the Honorable Vice President. Therefore, this question relating to the law applies to cableways for the transport of persons, so this law does not apply to Article 4(3) of the immovable or portable equipment designed exclusively for recreation and entertainment and not as a means of transport of persons. That's where you think of the zip line, completely lowlights or similar equipment. Next thing you know, it means from the general provisions of the wire, the construction of the wire according to the conditions of giving... concessions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the Law on concessions, Article 7(1) of the construction of cableways is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The essential requirements for cableways where Article 11 of these cableways are regulated are clearly laid down by the planned new cableways and their infrastructure, subsystems, safety components must meet the essential requirements set out in the annex to the Regulation. At present, this is regulated through Regulation 2016/424 for cableways which comply with the norms or their action on which references are published in the official EU list, it is assumed that they are in accordance with the essential requirements set out in the attached Regulation. Wires shall only be allowed to be used if they are in accordance with Regulation 2016/424 and do not threaten to endanger the health, safety of persons or property when properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with their purpose. These subsystems and safety components shall only be installed in the cableways provided that they allow the construction of cableways which are in accordance with that Regulation which do not threaten to endanger the health and safety of persons or property when properly installed, maintained or used in accordance with their purpose. So the next thing you know, I'm going to try to do the same layman thing, if a person wants to build a cable car in order to carry passengers on an existing already built cable car, it is necessary to determine primarily whether a concession for cablers is necessary, which in most cases it is necessary according to 20, century 1. A bill of law. The concession for cableways is not necessary only for cableways owned and managed or controlled by an investor of the Republic of Croatia, units of local or regional self-government, body of the state administration or legal person with public authority. In all other cases, the concession is necessary. Where it is established that the concession is necessary, the person may verify whether he has the conditions to grant the concessions themselves on request and if he has the concession application to the concession provider, if there is no such condition, shall appear on the tender carried out by the concession provider and, if the grantor implements it or may attempt to initiate such a procedure, the award of concession by the donor itself. After the concession and the conclusion of the concession contract, in order for the investor to access the construction of the cableway or the owner of the concessionary, it is particularly necessary that the cableway of the organisational and all technological preconditions or the conditions and requirements laid down by the Law be granted, and primarily to obtain the authorisation for the operation of the cableway, which is therefore issued for a year to carry out a professional technical examination of each cableway. Thus, in the case of construction of a new cableway, it is necessary for the investor to meet all the conditions for designing and building in accordance with specific construction and spatial arrangements and forests and to protect nature as well as the requirements laid down in Regulation 2016/424 of the construction of cableways means that it is in accordance with the construction regulations, but it is necessary that the cableway is built according to the requirements of Regulation 2016/424, in order to comply with the essential conditions laid down there for cableways as buildings. So, what it must contain, how it must be built, etc. After the construction of the cableway, the investor is obliged, i.e. the owner of the existing cableway, to determine the cableman who, however, determines the driver of the cableway and after meeting the other measures prescribed by the proposal of this Act, such as the entry of a useful permit for the work of the cablers to produce a safety report, carry out a technical examination, the cabler manager shall submit a request to the Ministry for the work of the cablers, shall attach the documents prescribed by the bill, and if the Ministry finds that all the organisational and professional technical conditions have been met, grant approval for the operation of the cablers for a year, after which the cabler may begin its work. The cableways must be maintained once a year, where necessary and more frequently and a cable maintenance plan brought by the cable manager himself. The expert technical examination of the cableway must be carried out once a year and carried out by an accredited legal or natural person authorised by the minister. Without an expert technical review, the Ministry cannot and will not issue a new authorisation for work. The Ministry of Wire Inspectors shall exercise supervision in which the exercise can also prohibit the work of cablemen and express some other measures because the Ministry is authorised to submit the indictment proposal as proposed by the wire inspector. Because in this case, we're dealing with a very important security issue. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89955	Thank you. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote, I apologize. We have one replica, excuse me. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89956	Oh, here, I just have to rephrase it for a little bit. For... Yes, it does, but I wanted to tell you that there is a zip-line that is these sizes, dimensions, characteristics, that it would be good to put it into this Act or to think at all about what law we're even going to define zip-line because zip-line isn't defined by any law, it's anarchy, and some construction project, someone doesn't do it, someone pays concessions, someone doesn't pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second thing, as far as the interest of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, is that it really stands in Article 7, however, does not mean that this article does not make it possible to rule it out. So, I don't see it from this article. And third thing, you were telling me about security, and I was asking something that would be very good to define by this law. How high above the houses, above the private plots, that wire must pass so that even the owner may be authorized or enjoy other benefits from this Act. And if it's a little left, a little right. So that's the thing to define...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89957	Thanks, pal. Time. Thank you very much. That is what we have concluded, and we will vote when the terms are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89958	Proposal for a Law on Wires, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 357 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly the proposal of the Railway Act and secondly, all objections and the proposal will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the 99 votes for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89959	We're starting with the next law, so we're moving on. - Final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy Second reading, P.Z.E. Number 249. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89960	Honorable MPs and MPs. The proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy was adopted at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 26 January 2018. After being considered at the meetings of the working bodies, and at the session of the Croatian Parliament. The observations, proposals and opinions addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal of the Law have been considered and taken into account when making it. In relation to the proposal for a Law adopted in the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal of the Law contains certain amendments and additions. All the comments of the Committee on Legislatives have been accepted, the opinion of the Committee on Health and Social Policy has been accepted, which has been established that the Executive Board of the Chamber has decided on the professional work of experts, i.e. psychotherapists or advisory therapists. A proposal from the Croatian Society for Children's and Adolescence Psychology and Psychotherapy of the Croatian Medical Assembly has been accepted. These provisions of the Law are complemented by age groups to which the psychotherapist, who is a consultant, has been explained. Furthermore, additional conditions are prescribed for a psychotherapist or advisory therapist who works with children and adolescents. A proposal has been accepted to... The psychotherapy only binds to an advisory therapist, not a psychotherapist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Opinions of all the authorities of the state administration and the legislative office have been adopted, most of the objections have been accepted, and additional reasons for non-acceptance have been further explained. A consultation on the final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, an analysis of a number of comments in the large part, is being held in the debate, with which completed education or, at the university, psychotherapy can be carried out. The Chief of Staff, who was involved in the public debate, is not in doubt the need to pass this law. Because of the above, psychotherapy activity should be regulated by special law. The most important changes in relation to the proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy are the provisions of the laws complemented by age groups, to which, therefore, adults and children are explained which jobs a psychotherapist performs and which an advisory therapist. A proposal has been accepted to... psychotherapy only binds to an advisory therapist, not a psychotherapist, and additional conditions are prescribed for a psychotherapist, i.e. an advisory therapist, who works with children and edolascents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89961	Thank you, too. We have several replicas on your exhibit, first colleague Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89962	Thank you very much. Dear lady, what I want to stress right at the beginning of this debate, and I am glad to see that I have had the first chance to say this, remains something controversial that I think must be resolved as soon as possible through the implementing regulations, and I am concerned that, because this is for the adoption of implementing rules amongst others as many as 2 years. All regulations relating to this law must be adopted as soon as possible and I would say that it must be within 3 months. So, I'm a doctor and as a regulated profession, I'm part of the chamber, I have to be in the chamber, I have to be a member of the chamber, and I have to renew my license every six months. Therefore, people who will be psychotherapists, an advisory psychotherapist, won't have to be members of the chamber, get a pass for life, and I don't think that's right. So they must also be obliged to regularly renew their license, license, because they will actually do a job, which is very similar to work, other members, regulated professions in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89963	Thank you. Replica number 2 colleagues cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I believe this is an extremely good legislative proposal, which I believe will be voted upon. A study of PRPD effects that does not yet exist in Croatia is listed here. I hope that the adoption of this law, the good supply and the basis for a university study in psychotherapy, as it has to say in Germany, so that, in that way, when there is a special graduate university study in psychotherapy, a lot of the concerns that exist in this area will be solved. But, of course, that's where we all agree, the psychotherapy activity needs to be regulated, and this is a good pledge to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89965	Thank you. Replica number 3 of my colleagues, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89966	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that in relation to the first reading, many remarks, which were seen to need to be put into this final proposal of this law. Also the difference between a psychotherapist's business and an advisory therapist, but also a mentor for trainees. And what my colleague Jovanovic said, that for sure, they are not members of the chamber, but I think that if they are not educated and perfected, they may lose to the chamber itself. And what might be because of the public, what we should actually say, is the fact that our culture still has certain prejudices, related to psychotherapy, actually... is the opinion that psychotherapy services are provided by doctors, specialists, psychiatrists, and in reality is where and where else, because the ratio between 80 and 20% in favour of non-medicine specialists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89967	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89968	In the opening statement, we talked about what was accepted between the two readings. I am personally convinced that I have changed Article 5 in the wrong way and that you have entered confusion over advisory therapists. I'm also convinced that in art. 5. To satisfy the Croatian society for child psychology and psychotherapy, make a new confusion without talking about voluntary membership in the chamber. And please, just keep an eye on this last one. So, membership in a chamber that's voluntary. I'm wondering if you're aware that this means that no one has to be assigned to the chamber, so I'm asking you, how do you think the chamber will be financed, if it doesn't have to have a single member.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89969	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89970	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, I'm actually interested in one thing, under which it actually affects who this lobby is, who actually influenced that you actually, here now present to us the law, which is so different from the first one. I'm actually saying that because I supported that first reading and the first bill, which really came and came out of the psychotherapist profession. Now you've suggested something, which isn't really what it's supposed to be. So you've proposed a law on psychotherapy, in a way that's actually incomprehensible. So I'd like to know who affected you so much, that you're actually doing a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89971	Thank you. Next replica of Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89972	Your Honor, my question, ma'am, I'm sorry that the board members weren't on the board today, so perhaps the answers to your questions would be in the discussion today. But I'm interested in something else, and that psychotherapy plays an important role in preserving mental health. I'm curious as to why this law is proposed by the Ministry of Demography and Social Welfare, and it's not proposed by the Ministry of Health, but it actually deals with human health. Is it a fact that for over ten years he has been trying to come from the Ministry of Health and that this was the only way he could see the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89973	Thank you. And the last replica, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89974	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you have clearly decided that our questions and our replicas do not answer. I suppose you might say something in the final statement about it. I was in my replica and I had two themes. One theme is that there are differences between the first and second readings. I personally think it's good to regulate us at the club to regulate the law, we think it's an activity that's extremely important and that there's a reason and why this isn't coming or that the Resort Ministry has become the Ministry of Demography even though it can be something else. We usually get on the table one book that's not bad to read and where it actually talks about the need for psychotherapy, the need for advisory psychotherapy, I think we need to define it, but it's a big difference between the first and the second reading, so it might be interesting to see why that is so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89975	Thank you. Yes, the secretary of state has decided that she will finally respond to all your replicas, so we can continue with the committee's rapporteurs. Marija Jelkovac and Ines Strenja-Linić, do you want to take the floor as a rapporteur of the committee? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89976	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry and these several parliamentary deputies who are following this debate today. It is important to read the report of the Committee on Health and Social Policy on the final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy because all parliamentary representatives of the Committee of this Proposal today supported the session. So we held at our 49th session of the debate held today at which we discussed as a parent working body in accordance with Article. 85. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the opening part, the proposing representative highlighted the solutions proposed in relation to the proposal for a law in the first reading. This is how the proposed text of the final proposal of the Law adopted the Committee’s objection, and in Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 32. Deleted point 6 which was prescribed that the professional work of experts or psychotherapists or advisory therapists should be decided by the Executive Board of the Croatian Chamber of Psychotherapists, having regard to the fact that the Executive Board is acting as employees of the Chamber, who are not trained to do so professionally. The proposal of the Croatian Society for Child and Adolescence Psychology and Psychotherapy of the Croatian Medical Assembly was also accepted, and the provisions of the Law are complemented by age groups to which the psychotherapist is involved and which counseling therapist, because it is particularly important to determine when it comes to children and adolescents. For the purpose of monitoring permanent completion, it is prescribed that the Chamber may suspend the card if it does not improve permanently. It's also accepted a proposal to... The psychotherapy only binds to an advisory therapist, not a psychotherapist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, additional conditions for a psychotherapist or advisory therapist working with children and adolescents have been laid down and authorisation has been given to the Minister responsible for social care affairs to adopt the Regulation on the type of additional education needed to work with children and adolescents. The members of the Committee commended the first reading of an additional clarification of the activities of psychotherapist and advisory therapist on what they drew attention to during the debate on the bill's proposal and for the purpose of eliminating possible ambiguities and abuses. The debate raised the issue of their professional training and control of their work, as well as the implementation of adequate education and supervisory and mentoring, and the need for a clearer definition of mentors and more precise definitions of the traineeship which has now been done. In this regard, and regarding the need for a clearer definition of mentor, they concluded that it is in art. 4. should be added to point 6 which would clearly define the mentor for the trainees and also propose amendments to Article 5, Article 7. A law relating to the performance and duration of the training course in a way that takes two years for a psychotherapist, and for an advisory therapist a year for which time can carry out psychotherapy with a mentor. As the Committee members pointed out in the debate, the adoption of a legal framework is necessary in order to finally introduce order into the psychotherapy activity. The proposed Law would regulate psychotherapy operations as independent activities in such a way that these jobs can also be done by persons who do not have health care education under the prescribed conditions. By regulating and prescribing clear content and the scope of the conditions and methods of carrying out the psychotherapy activities, stuparizing education, issuing permits for work or licensing, organising permanent education and carrying out professional supervision of the work of psychotherapy and psychotherapy activities, the quality level of service with the ultimate goal of improving the quality of human life, the promotion of positive personality development is concluded in our debate. After the discussion, members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly a bill on the activity of psychotherapy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89977	Thank you, colleague Ines, you can stay because you're speaking on behalf of the Club of Representatives, so I'm opening the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89978	So in Croatia there are 334 psychotherapists who are finally asking for this area to be regulated. Therefore, the club of the Independent Lists will support the final proposal of the Law on Psychotherapy because we believe it is extremely important to regulate this area. And for a few reasons. First, existing regulations and practices in the EU and the world generally respect the development of psychotherapy schools from the second half of the last century to here as well as ways of getting a psychotherapist and thus regulate psychotherapy practice. Many more recent research shows the success of a large number of modern psychotherapy schools and approaches, so today it is truly anacronoic to talk about psychotherapy exclusively as a subspecialization in the context of psychiatry. This puts us in very uninformed and conservative countries, and that's why we need this law. Such people are perceived by the European associations of psychotherapy associations whose members we are. Many of their standards and regulations are being upgraded to the regulations of each Member State, which has put psychotherapists in an invisible position so far. Secondly, the area of psychotherapy is potentially simple, which takes up various amazing pseudo-therapy approaches and nadipraxes. We must be aware of this as a society and it is our responsibility as a legislative body to do everything by adopting this law to ensure that nadrytherapy and scientifically unfounded approaches are clearly and sharply restricted and excluded from what we call psychotherapy practice. This is important for two reasons, citizens must be informed of what is a scientifically justified psychotherapy practice and what is not so that they can be responsible and choose the type and quality of services they need and the society must have clear and legal criteria to determine when and under what conditions the word psychotherapy and psychotherapy, practice or services can or should thus be used if citizens are protected from abuse and unqualified practices as for medicine, as long ago and for psychology since 2003. Thirdly, the adoption of the Law on Psychotherapy and later the other necessary regulations create a prerequisite for the preservation and care of the quality of psychotherapy services, which is of the primary duty and responsibility of society, and hence the executive authorities. If it is necessary to protect the physical integrity of citizens, by many regulations such as protection at work, then it is certainly necessary to protect and psychological integrity of citizens and regulate the field of psychotherapy to ensure professional and quality support. And fourthly, the adoption of this law opens up the possibility of legal regulation of the content of education and the preconditions for obtaining this title by respecting the diversity of psychotherapy schools and approaches, which is also necessary because we are witnessing very different criteria that currently involve education in our country. And a little bit about psychotherapy, given that not all of us here today are in the staff of doctors, so since each of us is an individual with the corresponding individual characteristics of psychotherapy has a very important role to play in preserving mental health. Psychotherapy is accessible to each individual individually in a personalised manner and in accordance with his opportunities and needs. It is very, it is a long and hard process, a process that achieves the emotional maturation of individuals, strengthens its mature defence mechanisms necessary to act in adverse situations. Through the psychotherapy treatment of the individual becomes able to bring his own expectations closer and even more important to take responsibility for himself, for his own actions, for the words, for the works and for the aftermath of the mood. Through psychotherapy, individuals often experience unwanted knowledge, the need to change situations that she was recently convinced could change as often as painfully as possible because it means giving up on her own fantasies, desires, attitudes, and habits. For example, depression is a common cause of guilt that has no real basis, then this attitude and guilt should be a topic in the psychotherapy process and all with the aim of curing a change in behavior and mood change. It is not necessary to say that we are now aware that by 2030 depression will be the world’s leading disease. Psychotherapy is a process, meaning the process between users and psychotherapy that leads to the resolution of mental problems and problems and is aimed at emotional growth and maturation, on a personal basis and takes place with the achievement of contact between the two mentioned persons. For quality psychotherapy work, it is extremely important that a psychotherapist acquires his own experience, learns about himself, and does not teach, recommend or advise on his own life experience because it would be a huge mistake in psychotherapy. So all of this is in some way proposed by this law where we see that the second reading has made the shifts primarily after a quality debate on the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy and the respected remarks made by the psychotherapist’s society for adolescents and children’s psychiatry. In order to repeat, it would be a key question, to repeat, the key issue of the Law on Psychotherapy activity is that it clearly defines and regulates under which conditions it can now be represented as a psychotherapist and perform psychotherapy. In this respect, the most significant role plays a role in the establishment of these responsible chambers that could regulate psychotherapy as a separate profession as they do in other professions, related to licensing and relicence and permanent education, ethical issues, professional representation towards other actors and others. As others have stated in this situation without law, the users of psychotherapy are mostly completely unprotected from persons who are without sufficient training to conduct psychotherapy as well as from possible ethical offenses of licensed psychotherapists who in that case can only answer to their specific chamber, we think of psychologists and think of doctors. So, once again, I don't understand why this law has not been proposed by the Ministry of Health, we haven't received that answer, but I also want to point out once again that it was also not clear to me why we will have an unlimited pass that is issued for unlimited time, subject to permanent improvement, it remains... Regardless of what the Ministry of Economy so requested, we have received such interpretation, this is nevertheless a regulated profession and should be subject to some other standards than those prescribed for economic activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89979	Thank you, too. The next debate on behalf of the MPs' club, counterpart Romana Jerkovic, on behalf of the SDP MPs' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89980	... During the debate on this law in the first reading, and on behalf of the SDP Club, I expressed very clear support for the intention to regulate the area of psychotherapy as an independent activity. [[Specially enabled.]] We are aware of the fact that psychotherapy has long come out of the framework of the health system and that this is a process that we can neither stop nor need to stop, and it is certainly about the activity that needs to be regulated, which needs to be regulated by law, and other words should introduce order, introduce clear rules of the game and prevent abuses in practice and on the market and protection at the end of the day, citizens, clients, patients from quasi psychotherapists and pseudo-naggers. So, simply put, the law is not perfect, but it is certainly necessary, because firstly, many have completed demanding education, with many hours of experience practice, secondly, it is a false activity that can and can help people in the recovery process, thirdly there are not enough psychotherapists within the health system and finally, self-called and unprofessional, certainly damage to this activity. So these are all reasons why one of these laws should be passed. Each should and the SDP Club shall adopt that position a law, regulate this activity, adopt standards and guidelines in carrying out this practice, i.e. these activities. However, it is difficult to take the impression that between the 2 readings you have done insufficiently, with the aim of improving the bill's proposal, there have been very many quality proposals, quality solutions, there have been many legitimate issues and unfortunately, no matter what you have numbered, what you have accepted, we believe that you have made too little effort, to increase the quality of this legislative proposal. Moreover, she would dare say on behalf of the club, if you had complicated something that was relatively correctly defined and solved, and what we insisted on, most of us in the debate, you didn't actually touch. It is very interesting that during the public debate, just before the first reading, there were only 10 comments, 10 comments in the public debate, and that now, after the first reading, you have 110. So for the first time in 10 years, and now 111 of course 100 and something you refused, it seems to me that this information is very much talking about how you have approached the improvement of this legislative proposal. It's completely incomprehensible to us why and how you succumbed and what pressures and alterations of Article 5 in this way, you've introduced some professions that don't have one single hour of psychopathology or psychiatry, or medical class, and you're making us wonder, so why can a journalist deal with psychotherapy, why can't a philosopher deal with psychotherapy, why not? You say now, some professions can, and some professions can't. We do this if it were not good, if it were a bad solution, you directly discriminate against those who have finished, I would say, demanding and long-term and from the EU recognised education, and not doctors, are not psychologists. They're not social workers and they're not educators, rehabilitators. Now the pro-pro-edetics has become a condition for counseling therapists, which we believe is contrary to the original idea of counseling therapists. But I guess you have some good reason for that. I'm sure you know why you did it between two readings and I agree with colleagues who say this is drastically different, you've done it, amazingly, how you did it, petty intervention, and drastically different law. Unbelievable. The psychiatrist, his therapeutic procedures, certainly influences the outcomes of the treatment of mental disorders, therefore they do not, however, and the colleague spoke about it, Celic, do not have a basic education in medicine and psychology, as doctors and psychologists. If you add to a profession, then everything loses its meaning in some way, because they should be students of psychotherapy propetetics, as well as others who are not medical professions. My colleagues and colleagues, I would say when it comes to public interest, i.e. ensuring the need for the interests of clients, patients, citizens, let us call them whatever you want, then it is very important, by means of regulation mechanisms, to regulate the performance of professional activity. But the market in itself, with all its problems and all its imperfections, can't be a regulation mechanism. How the market can only regulate itself, how it makes sense. With what good practice is taken over. It is absolutely not clear to us from which, we hold that customers are, we call them conditional at this point, professional services in professional services in a more unfavourable position than customers of products and other goods and services because they cannot evaluate and evaluate the quality of services themselves, especially when they provide one-timely such as j some counselling or they are high-profile such as psychotherapy. So doctors and psychologists, as well as some other professions, perform their activities, realize and influence I would say some key social values such as life, such as health, such as safety. And in their actions, they are obliged to respect the high ethical and professional standards of their own for the benefit of public interest, i.e. citizens. Unreal, it is absolutely unrealistic to expect that the establishment of a psychotherapist chamber that rests on the principles of voluntary membership will introduce market regulation and that what I have called public interest, which is the health of citizens, is the life of citizens, it is the safety of citizens. It will not be possible to introduce market regulation and prevent unquality provision of services because we already have a situation now that the level of organisational culture and an insufficient tradition of action of chambers except, of course, with the fence of medical and legal professions which have a long tradition in this area already results in difficulties in the work of existing chambers of expertise and inconsistencies in their activities and opportunities to carry out public authorities. Therefore, liberalisation of an unregulated market and a service provider does not protect citizens' interests. They certainly won't protect them like this. It is therefore unacceptable that membership in the chamber is possible or voluntary. That's completely wrong. And as I said, Madam Secretary of State, I hope you'll come forward about it. Membership also includes membership fees, which is an important revenue for chambers. The chambers have their own obligations to carry out. How'd you figure that out? Not to mention that segment about perfection, permanent perfection. So, psychotherapy, although defined as the treatment of the problem, is actually a therapeutic procedure and a treatment procedure as it always carries certain side effects, whatever side effects it may be, should be reduced. And it can only be reduced under controlled conditions. So let's imagine a hypothetical one situation in which some of these professions, let's say a logo, however, has a person, a young person with an OCP and who is psychotically decompensated. Let's just say he didn't go to the hospital, he went to a psychotherapist. Will he recognize that? How will he direct him to the necessary psychopharmacotherapy? Can he recognize the need for psychotherapy? So, the staff must control the employees themselves. It applies to all professions, it applies to doctors, it applies to physiotherapists, to nurses, to all professions, but here, this profession won't be worth it. And you haven't given us one too many explanations all this time. I must say that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will try to fix this proposal with the instruments we have, which are amendments, we expect that regardless of what comes from us, seriously consider their positive effects in which we are sure. The first amendment refers to something that you haven't touched at all with this law, which is keeping a professional secret. We believe that both a psychotherapist and an advisory therapist and a psychotherapy practitioner are obliged to keep data from the users of psychotherapy services as professional secrets. So it must keep it a professional secret, you have not stated it anywhere in the law, and we consider it extremely important. Secondly, we believe that paragraph 5 of Article 5 should be expelled. It may seem strange, it may seem contrary to what the Croatian society proposes for children's adolescent psychiatry and psychotherapy. In their address, they suggested a lot of things and you chose, pulled out one sentence and did something that made it more complicated when it came to this vulnerabilities group, so children and adolescents. I think you did it the wrong way and that it was better not to touch it at all than to touch it in such a wrong way because of what we did? They don't have to seek psychotherapy services solely for those who have severe mental disorders. For example, this can be done. to be a child who's having a hard time dealing with the fact that his parents are getting divorced. And now what do you suggest? To get that child through the procedure of going to a family doctor, he needs to get a child psychiatrist's manual, and then he has to induce psychotherapy. After all, why did you put a general practice doctor into the law? You say medical examination. Whose? Whose general practice? Should you be a general practitioner? That's completely unclear to us, and we think you did it wrong, so it's better to throw that article out than to keep it in the law the way it is. And, of course, Article 15 should be allowed as I said, it is inadmissible that the permit is issued for unlimited time, it is necessary to define a period for the renewal of the permit or at least in principle to specify that the chamber will define the period within which evidence of permanent improvement is to be submitted. Yes, we will also submit an amendment to the article. 20 laws, which define membership in the chamber, our proposal will be, as we have said and in the first reading, we repeat again, membership in the Chamber should be mandatory for anyone who wants to deal with psychotherapy. We find that extremely important. This is important for the profession itself, it is important for users of these services and no other solution in the long term, and this will prove not to be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89981	The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89982	Dear Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with an associate, some are in a hurry to the Belgium-Japan game, me too, so I'll try to be brief. There was a lot of debate on this subject and during the first, during the second reading a lot of debates in the media, amongst professions. The changes that have occurred are significant, and I agree with that. And I agree with a large number of comments that the distinguished representative Jerkovic said, you will see that we are talking about almost the same thing, only one... The opposition, it's one of the cancers positions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going in order, why this law isn't in the Ministry of Health, it's in the Ministry of Social Policy. If you look at it, there is no idea of a patient, a client only in one place, today it is popular to talk about the difference between a patient and a client, recently there was a large international conference, a patient in the centre of the City of Zagreb, as the final part of the twinning project, the optimization of health care, in people with metal disorders. We're talking about people who are psychologically needed. And of course these psychological needs, these psychological problems, they can be a lot lighter and they can be more difficult. If we talk about mental disorders in the narrow sense of the word, then it will most likely end up with a psychologist or a doctor. I absolutely agree that this isn't just a medical area. It's a lot wider. Why, then, do we have health care professionals, doctors, and we have the cooperation of callers, therefore, those who experience everyday work with persons who are psychologically in need. And that's why these are the ones. If we look at and compare laws that regulate psychotherapy or, like, in Germany that regulate psychotherapists, then we'll see that we're actually very liberal, this law is modern, of course it'll need to be done. But if you look, let's say one very liberal Netherlands, only doctors and psychologists can be psychotherapists, no one else. France, doctors, psychologists and psychoanalysts registered in the national register of psychoanalysts. This law is closest to the laws of Austria, Romania, Slovenia. I repeat, I would like this to be a good supply and a good foundation, for the creation of a special graduate university study, which will then last for 4 or 5 years and then we will have safer quality psychotherapists, not reducing the value of a psychotherapist, with all the educations that last long and cost a lot. So, people are giving you loans to get psychotherapy education, it's somewhere between 100-150 thousand kunas you get a four-year education from some psychotherapy direction. I would also briefly refer to the comment, why 110 comments in the first reading, 10 comments, I will tell you very openly, so this law would not have happened if it had not been for the association of psychotherapy associations of Croatia and should therefore be grateful to them. But of the 110 comments, 100 is your copy of the traps signed by the people who have engaged in the association of psychotherapy associations of Croatia. For this reason, therefore, now, we can speak long and wide, the difference between a psychotherapist and an advisory therapist. So, I mentioned, there, there's a study of pedeutics, which in the Republic of Croatia doesn't exist at this point. There were talks that he would be at the Faculty of Philosophy, in Croatian studies, at this point he does not exist. And of course, as we spoke during the first reading, I as a psychiatrist, as a specialist from... I don't meet these conditions and I don't find myself offended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have to draw a line somewhere. It's in our interest, in the first place, to people who have a particular need. There is a respected representative Mrak Taritaš, who led a major legalisation and illegal construction project, a large majority of it is legalized, but the beach house could not be legalized. Which means, I'm going to finish for the drawing class and I'm going to be able to be competent to an esteemed representative of Dark Taritash who's a graduate architect of architecture. If I've completed my flight course, doesn't that mean that I should get a job in Croatia Airlines right away or a cooking course, so I'll get a job in Sheraton right away. We have to draw a line somewhere, and first of all we have to think about, that a man with a certain psychological need, not an interesting group, who's interested in education from some psychotherapy course in a year, is not 5 but 25 people. So, I don't insult anyone here, but we need to take everything into consideration and make sure that the quality of the service provided to persons who are psychologically in need is as good and better. Are we going to regulate the entire area with this? Unfortunately, we won't, let's not look at the superiors, psychics, those who are in the evening in local cable TV, shall we be able to regulate them this way? We won't, and will people answer them? It will. Two more things, I'm really not going to be longer, the difference between a psychotherapist and an advisory therapist, so I've already said that, psychotherapists are doctors, psychologists and those co-operations, who have the experience of everyday working with people who have certain mental difficulties. All of these studies, therefore, the social work that is part of the Faculty of Law, the Educational Rehabilitation College, have a sufficient number of hours from the basis of psychopathology, they do not need... like someone who's a dick. ing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Agronomies, they don't need that much. What's still important to emphasize. All those who complete certain long-term educations will have the opportunity to open a crafts or a company to provide psychotherapy activities. Just not everyone's gonna be called psychotherapists, but part of it will be... , part will be advisory therapists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's the most optimal, we'll see when the law starts to work, then we'll see how it works. The difference between child and adolescent compared to adolescent psychotherapy is very important, very important. And that's why this law. 5., what you thought item 5 should be expelled by a psychotherapist or counselling therapist who works with children and adolescents can carry out his or her activity exclusively on the basis of previously collected medical diagnostic documentation and established indications for the conduct of treatment. So, who can direct it? Family doctor, pediatrician, school medicine specialist? Is there something wrong with having a certain problem with consulting a doctor and then going to an authorised therapist or a child counseling therapist? I don't see a problem here. I'll tell you a very plastic example. A child who is 10 years old doesn't feel suicidal as a 30-year-old person. For a child who decides to commit suicide, suicide is not the end of it. It's just one of the specificities of child psychopathology that's very sensitive and this is how we protect our children. We don't think that it's any kind of special Stigmatization right now, the victimization of a child with psychological needs or giving a certain diagnosis, behavioral disorder or anything else, but it's a clear one fuse that this child, after seeing that he needs psychotherapy, has to go through certain pre-treatments that will then allow that child to get as high-quality psychotherapy care service as possible. A law on a psychotherapy chamber, a voluntary membership, a mandatory membership, can be considered. I'm closer to your thinking. But here. This is characterized as economic activity, so that it would not be some additional parafiscal imposition, then it decided on voluntary membership. One of the reasons is that. Another reason is that all those who are psychotherapists, they are already members of the medical chamber, psychological chambers, the Chamber of Social Workers, etc., and then that payment obligation would be additional for those people who do the job. I would not agree with what was said during the first reading by the distinguished representative Mrsic that this Law, the Chamber Act, and I think that when we look at everything together, when we add it all together and subtract it, I think it is a lot more reason for this Final Proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy to be supported and that it finally starts with its implementation. The issue of implementation, the question of what counterpart Jovanovic was saying, can it go any faster. Here, I'll leave that to my colleagues from the Ministry. So there are definitely other things that, this is the first version of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy in the Republic of Croatia. It is likely that the time will come for the amendments and additions of this Law, but I think that the Law is quality made after so much waiting, after the transfer from the health portfolio to the social policy portfolio, a lot of advances have been made during Minister Milanka Opačić, now is the time to implement this. As a psychiatrist, I support this Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy and let's get to work. Thank you. Of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the final proposal for the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89983	Thank you, fellow Cell. Next debate on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89984	Thank you, Vice President. Now something quite professional. No, I'm kidding. First of all, let's say from someone I've had the opportunity to study and read a little bit of this, of course what I first fell into my eye is the number of people who deal with psychotherapy. If this is the correct data, then more than 1830 psychotherapy practitioners. So when we just put it in some context that 558 of them are psychotherapists in this, I guess how the law predicts that they can be called and get that license, or that title. We have an area that has not been done, which, of course, immediately raises the issue of the gray economy, and not to say this everything that today had a question of listening to both expertise and education, the consequences of dealing with it, etc. I see that this law, or 13 years ago, has gone into effect with this. The first draft was five years ago and it's good that today this is already here in the second reading. I think it's certainly important to regulate this practice, if it weren't for that kind of peddling or whatever they'd call it. Because there's obviously a need. Our people use services, citizens, and that needs to be regulated. I'll have a few questions, certainly related to certain institutions, including the very chamber which is indicated that it is voluntary. Although I'm surprised at my colleagues from the SDP, apparently my colleague Maras doesn't touch them because he keeps saying that these chambers should be lifted, that they have to be voluntary, so when it comes to the law, then another chamber is voluntary, then it's no good now. So, I can say hello. However, in the Law itself, I have a bond with the chambers if we want a doubt because a lot of them are left to choose, so when we talk about licenses. It says that permits in Article 15 can be obtained on the basis of completed training in an institution that conducts psychotherapy in accordance with the approval of the chamber. And when we have earlier in Article 5, where it is stated exactly who can be a psychotherapist, and other than regular education in different university integrated undergraduate studies, etc., in paragraph 2, or in the second paragraph of paragraph 2 or 1, it says that it has completed a professional part of psychotherapy education for at least 4 years in one of the psychotherapy directions recognised by the European Association for Psychotherapy and approved, etc. from the roof organisation. Now, are those two articles mutually in some conflict? Because if you were to look at here from Article 15 of the Admission Act, which is a public document, which proves professional training, means you're a dispensary to prove professional training, not a diploma, it's a significant difference in the performance of psychotherapy, it just says here according to the approval of the chamber. What exactly does that mean? What kind of study is that? If that and in accordance with Article 5, it would ask to be made more clear, as well as the system of points of professional training, the chamber shall be governed by its decision. And what am I looking at here now? You know how you have this certificate from public procurement, so you have to collect 32 points in 3 years, most often one seminar, one 8-hour lecture carries 8 points that cost most, so it might be between 500 and 1500 kn, someone spends who's regulated it, then it might not be necessary for him to have too much membership fee if they make it so that they can only choose who sees these educations, to restore those pass cards and collect points in a way that he has to do it or every 6 months. or every 3 or every 12 or every 24, we don't see here from this law, it's up to them to decide. I think that maybe in that work, so I'm talking here from one practical aspect, maybe legal, legal-economic, not professional, not my profession, I'm saying, but this is how I can read that there may be a lot of uncertainty around that chamber itself and whether that chamber as a monopoliest for issuing these credentials, in which way it will regulate, could be in favor, could be... Closed, that malts can't even be educated, that it's in which institutions I don't see here, that it has to be one that lasts 4 years whatever it means because it's not semesters, it's 4 years old, I don't know how education is conducted for 4 years, which means it's active, it's enough some on-line or it's got to go somewhere practical, no, it's pretty vague, and then in Article 15 we say enough is a permit and nothing more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I am now interested in whether the chamber will verify whether these conditions of Article 5 are met, on the basis of which it will issue a permit or apply what it says in Article 15, that it will valorise the same thing in another institution that conducts psychotherapy education. Here are some of these questions, what I said in general, and what I said at the beginning that it was good that today is ahead of us, good that there is another reading, good that we already start and go, I think it's important and dissent and terms, patient, client and that part of it when there's going to be treatment, when it's absolutely done and that we're doing it here, because it's extremely important and on one of the professional sides, a way to legalize what's now being done under some, I don't know how, if someone wants to pay a tax on it and make some treatment, I don't know in what way it is in the descriptions... Some services are being conducted at all, if any counseling life, whatever. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's how the HNS club will, of course, support this bill and settle by the side of 17 members who have already regulated this psychotherapy, so no hot water, nothing space we're doing here but what someone else isn't, but now I'd like to pray that later this part is a little bit clearer, that we don't leave too many cases behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89985	Thank you. This was the last debate on behalf of the MP club, now individually Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89986	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It's about a law that caused it and, I'd say, a very big interest in first reading, but no luck. It always gets some kind of term, so the first reading was due Friday afternoon after the vote so there was some kind of story where we were relatively small and now it's a term where our colleagues are actually already with one eye looking at their laptops game that is, but it's such an age, so what are we going to do. Also, I've been here in a debate before saying that I'm not a general lawyer so I don't think I understand everything, but here I'm reporting to a law that's, say, not some core business that has something to do with me, but I think it's extremely important and extremely important. Here's a little joke, we're in the Assembly of three psychiatrists. Just enough to start a club, and if they had a job, I'd say, in full-time and all. So I think that would... No, no, no, for us. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I think for us, for everyone, for everyone, so we could cover everything. But joke aside It's a joke on the side, here. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Fellows, a little.]] It's just maybe in that sense. This law would be expected to come from the Ministry of Health, Health or whatever we call it, but it's obviously there in a drawer it's been squatting for all of a decade and the ministry has decided to let it in the process, which is the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, so I'm guessing that this social policy is combined with families and young people, I don't think demographics are the ones who decided but it's good to have it. Well, let's define that, it's a good thing that people with certain jobs don't work outside, so out of the system. And what is expected to be a little bit more detailed is that you see all these amendments that will be and that the predecessors have talked about because it might be good for some of these amendments to be installed. The same way we always expect some laws to solve everything. This is already an effort to have a law that will define the activity of psychotherapy through the provision of Article 5. It is defined what a psychotherapist does and what an advisory therapist does in terms of education and thought everything and it seems to me to be a good starting point. That he is ideal is certainly not, that there will be a series of things in the implementation, he will not, but so we should experience the laws, we do not cleave the laws, we write the laws, we also bring what is the meaning of the law that through the practice and through the problems that we see that someone does not have such vanity and that they can come and say, here with practice we have seen that it is not good and that we need to make an amendment and supplement the law. As well as other parliamentary representatives, I received some conflicting views on my e-mail, and when someone intrigues you a little bit and then ask yourself what it is like, why is that. Likewise today, a book that I personally appreciate is what I had the opportunity to read and see is good and to see what it says. So equally, when you watch a little bit, we were all influenced by American movies, and then in American movies, we had a chance to see how it happens in America, so who advises, so it's one serious job. And it's one serious job and there'll be a lot more interested. 10 or 20 years ago when my friends needed some psychotherapy, then they would usually call someone, go for coffee and define it, but it's a serious job to define. In that sense, I absolutely think it's good that we have the law, well let's say that we need it, this is the result of really 10 years of different struggles. I understand that in this part of these strong interests the ministry somehow decided to go in the middle of the queen so try not to go on either side. Let's see if we can define that model. What seems to me is that there's something that's causing a certain kind of dispute and an amendment that's going to come and I'm kind of letting these amendments still be written by colleagues who know more about it, and I'm guessing I don't know enough, but I know enough about the chambers. Otherwise, when they were founded, the chambers were founded. The pipes were designed to regulate individual craftsmen within themselves and to protect themselves from external influences, it was base pipes and therefore the chambers were converted, if the chambers were then compared to that I think we should define really two things. The first thing that membership in the chamber is not eternal and that membership in the chamber should be the conditions under which you leave it, or rebuild it. I will refer and what your esteemed colleague said when he mentioned legalization, I will define myself on the chamber of architects, you become a member of the chamber, but however, your membership is in a state of peace if you do not deal with this business and you have certain conditions under which you must define certain things regarding the chamber. And what's extremely important is to define and try to accept that amendment and that's the topic of secrecy. So what you're telling your therapist is that she's actually staying here and not being the subject of something else. In this sense, there are still some interesting topics waiting for us in the Assembly, so we will see how much interest they will be there but we are in principle supporting it regardless of what from the club GLAS and HSU in relation to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy we have had a lot of objections to work and we have screamed a lot about some laws. I appreciate this courage that you have decided on your shoulders to present this law. We think it's good to go that way, to define it, but certainly try some of the remarks, they won't bring a mess into your law and accept it tied to the chamber, or to the option of some education, the renewal of knowledge and the secret. And then at some point when the law really comes into force and you see if there are any problems, come with a change and a supplement, it's incomparably better than to stubbornly stand behind one law and claim that everything is best and that's why we don't always take care of the laws and don't put ourselves in stone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89987	Thank you, too. Now, there was no replica. Now it's Mrs. Maria Alfirev, here's your turn, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89988	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here it is, I've already tried and in the replica of the secretary of state to say at the beginning and now I'm going to repeat, I'm going to start by saying that actually this law is first I'm going to say that this law is actually welcome and necessary and really what we're going to be, I'm going to be personally and happy and satisfied that finally, what the psychotherapy activity is going to get its own law. However, what is now, today before us and I must ask you what you have done with this law. What happened? So we had a law at the beginning, a few months ago, a law that was very clear and came out of the profession, so a psychotherapist who clearly described the activity of psychotherapy and activity and who could perform psychotherapy. What happened in the meantime? That's really unclear, because you've actually changed the essence you've added some things, you've taken something away and you've actually made quite a mess in the law itself, and that's why those who are directed, those who can really talk about this law, understanding the essence, are really going to ask what it's actually going to look like, what it's going to look like in the implementation. Well, let's do it in a row, shall we? What is key to what you have done is already mentioned in several discussions, and this applies to Article 5, and that Article 5 is indeed, so it has been completely changed in this final proposal. When I listen a little bit to the debate and even when I go back to that first debate and today's debate, somehow it seems to me that it feels like where this bill actually comes from and actually does, so it seems to me that there's a group of people or professions, is not a profession, is actually more of a lobby that actually wants psychotherapy or a psychotherapy bill, but still holds it tight. And it'll be the way they want it. We'll give you something, but it'll be what we want it to look like, so that's why we're introducing some restrictions and some restrictions. You put it on, so you took away the possibility of professions that didn't have primary education in medicine, psychology, so those who didn't, in the first reading, was the possibility of having a study of pedeutics. Here you are in this work other than a study of medicine, except for psychiatry, psychologists, social workers and those who have graduated from the education-rehabilitation college, you have added the possibility of educators. However, you are not for example some other professions that also have as electoral subjects perhaps more than they have in the study of pedagogy. For example. Answer me this question, and that was in the debate, in the e-consumption, here you have at the Catholic-Godology college, for example. Why don't we have a philosopher theologian? They also in their electoral subjects have, I will read it to you, from introductions to psychology, general psychology, development psychology, psychology of religion, social psychology, groupwork, basic counselling, leading a group of general psychopathology. Why not that profession? In some ways, you are discriminating certain professions with this provision. And some professions, like this one, say theologians, psychologists who already have and are already certified psychotherapists, they won't be able to do it in Croatia in the future. Is it power? He won't. They'll be the only advisory therapists. And that's a fact, you've really banned some of the professions from doing this if they have certificates that are recognised in the EU. And that's why I'm saying that this law has completely changed and perhaps the essence of the very activity of psychotherapy. What else? So you have determined that children, that children really should be protected, is special and every law or every provision that we make in this regard needs to be carefully promoted. Is what you've put into the law really going in the children's interest? Is it necessary for all the difficulties a child has that can occur when behavioral problems occur, when it occurs during divorce, in certain stresses, so trauma loss, so is it really necessary for the child to get from a doctor and this is not indicated by which doctor, to get a diagnosis? Is that necessary to go to a psychotherapist? Is it possible that a child or adolescent will be further traumatized in this way? Is this child going to have any more trauma and Stigmatization? It seems to me it could go that way. So we went to the fact that this provision, this article, is being moved because it can really cause some complicated new situations and also make it difficult for parents and children to get in time and prevent difficult conditions because we have to say the hand to the heart, really if we respond on time, we will prevent some of them from getting bigger difficult difficulties that can actually result later in some very, very difficult forms of damaged mental health. I don't think we should be here when we talk about psychotherapy really getting into the field of psychiatry because it's not necessarily that. So it's really an activity for itself and this law goes in that sense and as such we really need to look at it. I therefore hope that you will respect all the amendments that we have tabled, which are going for the purpose of increasing, therefore uncomplicated and not creating confusion in the law itself and in the activities of psychotherapy, and in fact increasing the quality of this activity and supervision and activity, because it is precisely the chamber that should play a key role here and therefore we have talked about the need to renew the permit, that membership should be mandatory and that this role and supervision of the actions and work of the psychotherapists themselves should actually be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89989	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first is Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89990	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Alfirev, I'm sorry that you're performing here as the attorney of an association. It seems like you haven't heard any of this debate. I would like to commend, apart from the opinion of the Association of the Psychotherapy Association of Croatia, opinions and others have been taken, and I have pointed out that we should thank this alliance for the initiative, which is why we are discussing today the final bill, but I am sorry that you are repeating something that is not true. You mention here and theologians and I'm glad that the SDP advocates theologians and priests who participated in the debate, but no one is prohibited from working. So, is the problem, that if a graduate economist graduated from education, he works as an advisory therapist. Which is so much magic that he has to be a psychotherapist. So we have to make some difference. It must be made a distinction that a person who has the right education, can work, can open a craft, can open a company for the psychotherapy activity, but not everyone can wear the psychotherapist's title. There's still got to be a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89991	Thank you for your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89992	Thank you. My colleague Cellic, what I pointed out, is that in this law, it was introduced precisely on the basis of discussion and e-consultation by one profession, and that other professions were not allowed to do so and that's the fact. I'm not defending, therefore, you think we're talking about the profession, a profession that has not been proven whether and whether there are so many relevant knowledge that you ultimately advocate. We're talking about discriminating other professions, because it's possible that someone, therefore, will not talk at all about any particular profession, with additional education, with additional education and through prodeutics, can come up with these basic knowledge and through education, and we've talked a lot about education through psychotherapy itself and how long they last and how demanding and how much supervisory they require to be quality psychotherapists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89993	Thank you. And last replica, here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89994	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Alfirev, in fact, you said at the very beginning that you first supported this bill in the first reading, but now when you finally passed the bill, or their proposal, you said that you couldn't support it because it was substantially changed and in these two, three minutes, as you were talking about an individual debate, I was actually waiting for what you were going to say, then you only mentioned this article. 5. And actually, as far as I can see and how much I've read, and today I've paid special attention to seeing who's been involved in the public debate, so it's about the profession, the people, the psychotherapists, the counselors, the psychotherapists. So all those people interested in this area were involved in this final proposal. So no one made such remarks to the ones you're talking about. Today we also said that, let's say, special attention has been paid to the children of adolescents, where if I hadn't misunderstood the ministry would have brought a special regulation regarding what is one additional thing, which further strengthens this law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89995	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89996	Dear colleague, it seems to me, either you didn't hear me well, or you didn't read this final bill well, because exactly, it means out of 111 comments, so 111 comments and participation in the debate, I really think there are some in that first part of it, so maybe even 50 won't count, but everybody's actually talking about it, and they're looking at this very discriminatory provision, that they can do certain professions and that some can't. So some of the strategists have actually been classified to be able to carry out the psychotherapy activity and some of them aren't. That's exactly what I'm talking about. And that must be about 50 comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89997	Thank you. It was also the last replica of your exposure. The next individual participation in the debate, registered counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89998	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, if we pass this law, we will be one of the 18 countries in Europe that have a law on the activity of psychotherapy and that is certainly good. When acts of psychotherapy were established, it was decided back in Strasbourg in 1990 when a declaration of psychotherapy was made. And in our premises, the activity of psychotherapy has been known for 50 years, but it hasn't been regulated. It opened up a space for all sorts of self-called psychotherapists and misleading a number of people, users who needed psychotherapy. That's why this law is necessary, and that's why it's certainly more beneficial than damage to bring. The law has been created since 2005. So I don't know if any laws in Croatia have been written, discussed trying to bring it to 13 years. A lot of talk about those who wanted to pass the law, a lot of talk about those who opposed the adoption of this law, a lot of talk about how it started to write to the Ministry of Health, and eventually it was written to the Ministry of Social Welfare. So anyone out of it can draw conclusions, I'll skip this time. I can only say that the law certainly bothers one part of the interested but interested, above all, because of their financial benefit, less because of the interest of patients or users of their services, as we will probably call it since it is done here that it suggests one economic activity but that economic activity falls under what we consider regulated professions, not only in Croatia but throughout Europe. So the law bothers those who are self-called psychotherapists, and that is why many of them do not want it to be passed and that is why this procedure has been going on for years. What we really want, all of us Parliamentarians, us who are doctors, part of us who even deals with psychotherapy, not me personally, but there are people here who do it. So first of all, we want more order to be introduced into psychotherapy circles, to ban all those who don't have adequate education from calling themselves and representing psychotherapists. It would certainly make the service of psychotherapy both more accessible and quality, which is why we need this law. The aim of this regulation must also be to identify psychotherapy activities as independent activities which, under particularly regulated conditions, could also be carried out by non-healthy workers, and that is where the biggest problems arise. How to regulate it and yes, not a patient but a user of this service since it is unhealthy under this proposal to be fully protected? So our job as a politician now, not as a doctor, not as a psychiatrist or a psychotherapist, but as a law-making politician, is to provide safety to people who need psychotherapy to improve the quality of their lives. Citizens must first and foremost be informed of what is a scientifically-founded psychotherapy practice and what is not. It's important for a number of reasons. So, firstly, in order for citizens to have the option of choice and to be protected from abuse and secondly, the adoption of this Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy would be arranged to deal with psychotherapy as an independent activity for which a psychotherapy chamber should be established. There are still a number of questionnaires left that this law does not solve in the most qualitative way, there will be an amendment, I even call on the Ministry to perhaps not rush to pass the law this week, we can pass it next week, to read all the amendments in peace, to consult additionally and to accept those amendments that will mean that the law is better and better. The psychotherapy chamber must prescribe conditions for the exercise of psychotherapy, so these jobs are also carried out by unhealthy workers, and this must be further regulated and the way that the proposed challenges are a certain dissatisfaction in the works of people who are currently engaged in psychotherapy and, for example, have European certificates, and under the new regulation, they will be able to continue this job but in the future it will not be possible to achieve this although these European certificates, based on the experience of psychotherapy in Europe, certainly mean quality work. And principles, one information that is worrying, at the world level, 1/4 of the population during their lives is suffering from at least one mental disorder. The forecast is that by 2020 depression will be at the second place in the list of leading diseases so that in Croatia according to the number of days spent on treatment in the hospital, mental disorders and behavioural disorders are in the first place. We heard here today that someone has said quite negatively, my colleague, Cellic, seems to me, that someone is representing the Union of Psychotherapeutic Associations. So the Union of Psychotherapy Associations is one of the alliances that worked hard to get this bill passed. He's not completely satisfied with this law, but specifically on my last request, they told me what they recommend I do, they recommended that I support the law, to support this law for the simple reason that otherwise everything would be returned to the beginning, it would be lost for 13 years, and that would mean that this activity would remain completely unregulated. They believe that many things have not been resolved in the most qualitative way, some of their proposals have been incorporated into the amendments attached, I hope that the part will be accepted and that ultimately this law will be better quality. So it's right from the Association of Psychotherapy Associations that it's good that this law will define the activity of psychotherapy, it's good that a psychotherapy chamber will be established and they hope that through the activity of the chamber in the future we will also be able to bring annexes to the law in order to promote psychotherapy as activities based on scientific basis. And what I want to say at the very end, so I think the Ministry of Social Affairs in this case is being fooled by the Ministry of Economy as we heard today by the Committee on Health and Social Care. In Europe, there is a test called the proportionality test. The proportionality test is an EU court which applies when assessing whether a certain national or supranational measure is limited to the use of market freedoms and according to which a measure must have a legitimate objective, must be appropriate to achieve that objective, must not go beyond what is necessary for it to be achieved, taking into account the individual's interest in achieving the subjective right to which it is called and the general interest. Therefore, if we take into account this definition and we have heard today that in the EU when it comes to regulated professions, this proportionality test cannot be seen as an ordinary economic activity is seen, then all those remarks made regarding the work of the chamber, the mandatory membership in the chamber, the duration of the licence and the need to limit the duration of the licence do not stand. It is not true, therefore, that this cannot be done, but in this way, the Ministry of Economy simply talks about parafiscal burdens that must be reduced and precisely based on the opinion and the proportionality test in the EU, in the case of regulated professions, this is not considered a parafiscal burden. Therefore, membership in the chamber for regulated professions is not considered parafiscal and given the individual's interest in health here. Membership in the chamber should be mandatory, the pass should not be of unlimited duration and should be strictly regulated in which way it will be assessed whether people who develop psychotherapy professionally as all of us who deal with medicine have to do so, so I ask you to think about it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u89999	Three replicas, first fellow Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Jovanovic, it is not popular in this High House when HDZ praises the SDP or vice versa, I will commend you here, I do not speak as a doctor psychiatrist, this is a professional law, there is a professional dimension, all this is necessary to make a quality regulatory framework and therefore thank you for supporting and supporting this step forward, which you will support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, will probably be in the near future changes and additions but this is a good foundation and stock to move forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90001	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90002	Thank you. Comrade Cellic, I only ask that until the final adoption of the law and you, with your authority, encourage that part of the amendment we propose be accepted and that we receive an even better and better quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90003	Replica No. Two colleagues of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90004	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, it is extremely good that you have touched the topic of regulated professions in your debate. So the Ministry of Economy in order to reduce parafiscal intrusion, he declared everything parafiscal, not all parafiscal intrusion. And the fact is that there are really ministries that are trying to remove parafiscal burdens. It's like the train you're going to take so you're out of the first car to go faster but you don't control what the last two cars are throwing you in. But this isn't the case, and that's what needs to be taken care of. And that's why, and in this debate, we're kind of affirmatively talking about this law, we're saying that it's good to have it, and you've been talking about it, and I've been talking about it in an individual debate, but in relation to the membership in the chamber, give the voice of common sense because it really needs to be kept in mind that it should be regulated and that the members of the chamber, that they have to be forced to be educated and educated because it's actually the interest of the therapeutic profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90005	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90006	Thank you very much, colleague Dark-Taritash. So here we are today on the Committee on Health and Social Care of fellow Members of the Ministry of Social Care, otherwise the dentist who participated in this debate in the European Parliament pointed to this problem, he also pointed out to colleagues from the Ministry of Social Care who were surprised to hear it for the first time and we were all convinced that the jet was one of these transparent games of the Ministry of Economy, which under the cover of parafiscal influences, was actually promoting itself and not actually taking into account the slightly wider interest of citizens when it comes to regulated professions. So what kind of opinion is currently in the European Commission, the European Union, when it comes to mandatory membership and regulated professions in chambers, this is not considered a parafiscal imposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90007	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Alfirev Maria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90008	A colleague of Jovanovic, so you said at one point, in a way, you will support this law. And exactly, so all of us will probably come to some consensus and there will be some support of this law just because it's been waiting so many years for that law. And is that always so good? Is it good that just because you wait so many years that you have to and support yourself and what, in fact, the waist and the waist doesn't fully agree and that there are already going to announce some changes and supplement just so that, therefore, it goes, is supported and supported, but is it always good that just because that profession is waiting so long to recognise its activity, its profession?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90009	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90010	Thank you. My colleague, Alfirev, I'm telling you, I've been in a dilemma, but after the representatives of the League of Psychotherapy Associations, which I've talked to them about a lot about this law and their proposal is to support the law. And that's why it decided in my decision. I have just received notice that we are being followed in the debate, so I welcome them, especially I welcome the school of cybernetics and systemic therapy from Rijeka, which these days finishes the education that started 2014. This group will therefore be able to deal with psychotherapy after 4 years of a very difficult programme in 2018. It speaks enough of the extent to which this is really a matter of a responsible job and a job that the law must then treat in such a way. And that is why I hope that part of these remarks that we have discussed today will be accepted by the Ministry and made the law even more quality than it is in this form in which we got it on the benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90011	Thank you. And the final debate, colleague of Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90012	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, on behalf of the club, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I've actually expressed my personal attitude to a large extent, so I'm going to take this individual debate down to all of a minute, two to mention something that I think is most important. I don't want to lose 13 years of working on this law, but it bothers me to pass a bad law, and we should actually be concerned about the fact that we've been working on some law for 13 years, but well, the law is here and we need to do everything we can to improve it. I personally think that the weakest link of this law is Article 20(1), which speaks of membership in the chamber. And I'm holding on, I'm going to do it again and it won't be hard for me to be a membership, that it's unacceptable that membership in the professional chamber is voluntary. You're doing a precedent without a logical and overexplanatory explanation. I don't know if you're aware of that. So even in your first reading, and now you've repeatedly made an objection to it, and something tells me that for some reason you won't do anything about it. And I think that's bad. We have heard from fellow Cellic and it may be your official position, but we have been discussing for what, two hours now, we haven't heard the words from you, which I'm sorry, because our debates might have been different articulating and otherwise directed, that you've manifested yourself about at least one of our remarks, but you don't, keep your mouth shut and wait for the end. Okay, that's your right, so it's my right to repeat what I said on behalf of the club. If it's an explanation of parafiscal intrusion, then it would really be better if you didn't even give that explanation. What's a fact is that you don't want for some reason you don't want this activity to control and regulate the chamber. You say some market regulates this activity where I don't think you understand that leaving this activity to the merciless laws of the market, i.e. the laws of supply and demand lead to an increased number of non-quality services. And not only that, it will endanger values such as health, such as safety, such as life after all. It may sound pathetic and extreme, but I personally think as a doctor that it's possible. In other words, if you don't understand me so far, you're throwing this activity into the buds of the open market, into the plowshare open, to the growing supply and demand that you really think that this important and delicate activity dealing with mental health must be liberalized to the extent that one profession, unlike all other professions, does not have to and should not be regulated by the rules of the game prescribed by the professional chamber. It's not something else, it's a professional chamber. So once again, we heard from fellow Cellic that one of the reasons why this is so is because it involves additional parafiscal burdens that are difficult for craftsmen, so we won't worry about permanent improvement, we'll give a permanent pass, let everyone do what they want, we'll endanger the citizens, their health, their patients, their clients, however you want, just so they don't pay parafiscal burdens. So don't say it anymore, really, I think that sounds like it. We're going to jeopardize the health of citizens' patients so they don't pay parafiscal charges. So what kind of explanation is that? After all, you show that you don't know, that already at this point there are many who are members of two chambers, craftsmen and some professional ones. So it can't be an explanation, it can't be an argument for such a specific and defined segment of the law. I had a need to once again emphasize this about voluntary membership in the hope, probably in vain that something would change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90013	We have two replicas, first colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90014	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerkovic, connected exactly what you were talking about with the membership in the chamber. Therefore, in our explanation on page 21 of the proposals which have not been accepted, it is clearly stated that this is the reason for the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts to believe that, in accordance with the implementation of the process of liberalisation of the service market and against, in accordance with the directive, it is not possible to ensure this freedom if the approval of the permit is limited, i.e. mandatory membership in the chamber. However, today we have heard from the Committee on Health and Social Care that this is not true and therefore I appeal to the representatives of the Ministry to further consult and to understand that this service cannot be considered a service of beer production but rather a service of health protection and that it falls under regulated professions and where this test of proportionality is carried out by the Court of Justice of the European Union... Then it is not considered a parafiscal imposition or restriction of freedom of the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90015	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90016	Well, you're absolutely right, no one here has anything against it being in the domain of the economy, it just has to be regulated in the right way, we need to be aware that it's a matter of citizens' health and we need to be aware that it's a very delicate activity that exists, which works, a lot of people are dealing with it, but it has to be regulated. How will it be regulated if membership in the chamber is voluntary? So let it be a question or regulated as a twist, let it be in the sphere of the economy. All we have to do is make an additional effort to make it according to the rules of the profession defined as not endangering the health of the psychophysical state of clients, citizens, patients, however we wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90017	Replica No. 2nd colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90018	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your individual debate, you pointed to the problem of membership in the chamber. And it's certainly in this law that one topic where it's kind of an appeal to the Resort Ministry to make a little effort, to see it a little bit. So it's certainly a regulated profession, but there's actually one essential thing. This is the law where we first regulate certain activities. I'd be the first to advocate liberalisation but it's not at all cost and in any way and it can't be all that defined. And that's why this chamber is important, so this law has been in force for 10 years, so we have some conditions, so we have some arguments. I'd be in favour of further liberalisation, but now we're forming game rules. When we first form the rules of the game we must form them within certain frameworks and it is read through this law as a chamber but then we need to carry it out consistently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90019	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90020	Thank you very much. After 8 years in the Croatian Parliament, I can tell my impression, and about what you were talking about, which is the impression of how we pass the laws. There are problems in some segment, in some sphere of social life. Then the waist begins to point to it, so for a decade, it points to a problem. Then politics comes to mind, executive power, and we could really do something, then the waists write the law, solid law, here. But then the lobby comes into play and I can't figure it out. We, in this case, as I have failed in many other cases that lobbys, for God's sake, are ultimately devastated by the law that made the waist. And why is that happening? We know the final result. No segment in this society is regulated properly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90021	Thank you. And the last line, Comrade Alfirev, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90022	Thank you. My colleague Jerkovic, you have really discussed in your present time what is crucial because it is very unusual that through this Law on the one hand, it has gone into the regulation of who can perform and some professions have been preferred, while some professions that, through their hearts can truly and could carry out the psychotherapy activity as prescribed, and on the other hand, it has not been possible to regulate membership in the chamber and therefore through mandatory membership in the chamber, through the actual supervision of professional training to ensure quality, ensure what is very important, what is the continuity of doing the activities of each individual psychotherapist.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90023	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90024	Yeah, a lot of illogicality happened from first to second reading. We expected to improve the law. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. Too bad we said many times the Law is not perfect, but it is necessary and we would be very happy to support it and I now remain the only one, as you do, to look forward to finally speaking to the secretary of state and to give us answers to all these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90025	Thank you. That concludes the debate, and we will vote when the terms are obtained. I thank everyone for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90026	Final proposal of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 249 Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the HDS, HSS and HDSSB representative Marija Alfirev and Romana Jerkovic and representative Željko Jovanovic, please to the motionary representative, to show about the amendments submitted with us is the respected Marija Plegikosa State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Youth and Social Policy. State Secretary, we're going with Amendment No. 1 it is the amendment of the HDS, HSS and HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90027	Dear President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia do not accept this amendment because the content of the amendments is an integral part of the general and sublegislative acts, which specify the relationship between mentors or supervisors or psychotherapy practitioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90028	Please show off. Comrade Dodig, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90029	... I got the general support that we worked it together, all together, and now on one road it's not accepted, I'm not asking for a vote, it's just weird though. [[Specially enabled.]] I'm not asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90030	You're not asking for a vote, thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number two, same club reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90031	The Government of the Republic of Croatia also does not accept this amendment for the same reason because the content of the amendments is an integral part of the general and sublegal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90032	Buddy Dodig, same thing, right? I thank you, then we won't vote. We are now going to the amendments by MPs Marija Alfirev and Romane Jerkovic, the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90033	The first amendment also suggests that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not be accepted. In the light of the rules on scientific activity and higher education it is evident that the concept of study is used. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). Paragraph 5 was intended to ensure quality protection for each child, in a way that the child performs diagnostic tests prior to the start of any treatment in the healthcare system. It does not necessarily have to be a child psychiatrist, but it can be, for example, a child psychiatrist. pediatrician of primary protection specialist of school medicine, doctor of family medicine, etc. Therefore, we believe that in this way, there are no limited options for his treatment. Art. Paragraph 1 of subparagraph 2 of the final draft law requires that the Chamber adopts a code of psychotherapeutic ethics, since for a psychotherapist, an advisory therapist and a psychotherapy practitioner, the obligation to respect the confidentiality of information obtained from people during psychotherapy work is prescribed in the code of psychotherapy ethics, there is no need to add a new sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90034	Thank you. It's obvious, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90035	Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, therefore, acceptance and justification, as regards your first in paragraph 5, in Article 5. 5 Paragraph 3 of what I wish to do and to paragraph 11 beyond paragraph 11 in order to add this paragraph 12, we believe that this part should nevertheless be emphasized by the fact that both psychotherapists and advisory therapists and psychotherapy practitioners are obliged to keep the data of the users of psychotherapy services as a professional secret. What I would like to point out, and as regards this item, which refers to the diagnostic actions of children, I would like to point out that if we leave that article, that it can be even greater damage than your intensity itself to achieve greater security. Just because those who are listed all professions are, in fact, having competences that can be very precise and well assessed by what kind of therapy a child needs, by considering that it is necessary for a doctor, pediatrician or family medicine to make a diagnosis or introduce diagnostic procedures, is not necessarily and quality to do so. Given that we will vote for this law and positively do not ask for a vote by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90036	Thank you. Let's go to Amendment No. Two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90037	Thank you. The second amendment is also not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts responsible for implementing the process of liberalisation of the service market, in their remarks on the text of the draft law, stated that it would be in accordance with Article 11. the same Directive restricts the approvals of administrative costs during each procedure of new authorisation and provides that the licence has unlimited duration, subject to permanent improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90038	There you go. There you go. There you go. Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90039	There is, as far as the licenses and licenses themselves are concerned, or in Croatia when we talk about the work of all chambers and the issuing of licences, licenses, professions, all chambers, then we should uniquely have for all chambers equal, equal treatment. As in other chambers which have and similar activities, issuing a licence is not permanent and for unlimited duration, we consider that this item should be amended and read in such a way that it is issued not for unlimited time, but that it should be on time determined by the chamber or, on condition that the chambers are continuously and in accordance with the rules of delivery of evidence of the duration of completion. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90040	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 3. of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90041	Amendment No. 3. also the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The text of the final draft law is in line with that Internal Market Services Directive in such a way that membership in the Chamber is voluntary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90042	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90043	Well, here's the same thing as before. Chamber membership. We will either define ourselves as the Republic of Croatia who wants membership in chambers, chambers of expertise to be mandatory or we will say that membership in chambers will not be mandatory anywhere. I think it's really one systematic question. Therefore, I do not understand why you did not accept this because this is exactly what is guaranteed, thus guaranteeing the quality of the activity itself and quality control over the performance of the activity itself. So I say one more time, a medical chamber, a chamber of architects, a bar of law, a chamber of social workers, these are all chambers where membership is mandatory. So they really don't understand why you're here, which is why you think that in this chamber, and we're asking other articles to have the activity under greater control, I'm talking about wanting to protect children, and on the other hand, we think that membership in the chamber must not be mandatory but that it is voluntary. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90044	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the last amendment of the two MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90045	4th Amendment, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to be accepted. Namely, the term nostrification is no longer used but the concept of recognition of foreign professional qualifications is used, in addition, there is no degree in psychotherapy, the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications should be implemented in its home chamber, in the Croatian psychological chamber or chamber of social workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90046	There you go. There you go. There you go. My colleague Alfirev. You're pulling what? You're withdrawing the amendment, thank you. And we are now going to the 7th amendment of MP Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90047	The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept that amendment, Article 47. The final draft law provides for a time limit for the establishment of a chamber, a time limit for the adoption of statutes and general acts and chambers and a time limit for the Minister responsible for social care affairs, for the adoption of implementing rules. In addition, it is noted that the deadlines prescribed in Article 41 are not an obstacle to those transactions being carried out within a shorter period than prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90048	Obviously, my colleague Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90049	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry that you did not accept these amendments because their objective was to speed up the process and to get all implementing acts to ensure that this law makes sense within the shortest period possible. The period of 2 years listed for the adoption of certain implementing acts is sickly long and psychotherapy will not be able to start as an activity as imagined. Therefore, I can understand your argument that this does not mean that it will not be finished before but to put 2 years to produce implementing acts I do not understand what you will do then in that ministry if it takes you 2 years to write the implementing acts. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90050	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Thank you. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes so that we now move to a vote on the final draft of the Law on the activity of psychotherapy. Please, let's vote. I find that with 95 votes for and 2 abstentions, the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90051	Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90052	The Honorable Chairman. Since we've done six points today, that it's 20 hours and 15 minutes, I'm asking on behalf of the MOST Club to discuss these two important points concerning the referendum, especially this one on the amendment of electoral legislation signed by 400 thousand citizens, to leave tomorrow for a more appropriate term. You are able to interrupt the session, only if it is not in accordance with some agreement between SDP and HDZ to discuss this topic in these late hours. Well, here's what you're going to do with your move to show if it's a deal or if you're going to put it in a more normal time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90053	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. So, I propose that we bring together the debate on the citizens' initiative referendum, the People decide on the completion of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. Also to call a state referendum on the citizens' initiative The Truth on Istanbul. Who's in favor of a united debate? ... I suggested according to Article. 247 that a united debate can be held, which can be carried out if the majority of the representatives present agree. [[You can't hear it.]] Is there anyone against a united debate? One, two, three, four, five, good, six. Who's in? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. ... Please, just a second. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here you go, buddy. ... Always. ... [[You can't hear it.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90054	... You can yell all you want later. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Since this is only about the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system, about counting, then it is normal that, normally, to seek and to approve a joint debate because it is only about counting. The theme is one, counting. The topic is not a debate about the essence itself, although I think anyone can say whatever they want, but the conclusion will be on the count, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90055	It's a technical point. .../ Yeah, that's technically, yeah. It's a purely technical point. So, what were you looking for? Shall I repeat the vote? ... Well, no problem at all, here it is. [[You can't hear it.]] In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 247. Here, who's in favor of having Please raise your hands. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. Who's against it? Here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 12-6. We'll have a united discussion. Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya, take it easy. [[You made a good deal, big coalition.]] All right, take it easy. Let's go back, like this, I'm sorry. So it's 8:20. Let's get back to technical points. - Report on the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative “People decide” on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 72a, and the request for a national referendum of the “People decide” citizens’ initiative to amend Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as well as: - Report on the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘Truth of Istanbul’. The applicant of both points shall be the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article. 60. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to provide an additional explanation for both points, which is his colleague, Peja Grbin, Vice-President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session held on 20.6.2018 discussed the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative, under... The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In 72nd and the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative, the people shall decide to amend the Article. 72. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an organisational committee and initiatives by act of 13 June 2018. 60. Rules of Procedure. On the basis of its competence, the Committee shall establish the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in Article 2. Paragraphs 1 and 2 are replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate expressed its opinion that part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live and pay taxes are seeking to deny certain rights. It was also pointed out that the campaign, which was conducted during and after the signature collection, caused adverse and worrying consequences both for national minority representatives and for members of national minorities, and the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia were violated, particularly in part of equality and tolerance. It also discussed the number of necessary voters' signatures in relation to the provisions of the Election Register Act. The rapid conduct of the Croatian Parliament in the decision-making process on requests for a national referendum in the Republic of Croatia has been highlighted, and it is pointed out that unlike other countries, for example. Switzerland, in which the reference was issued 3 years after the request for a referendum was submitted, the procedure shall take a much shorter period of up to 6 months. Given that the current law governing the issue of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia does not prescribe the publication of the number and credibility of the voter's signature, the Committee has proposed to the Croatian Parliament unanimously, in view of the current practice, that it draws the following conclusions. First, on the basis of Art. Article 127(2) The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall be called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests for the call for a national referendum, the citizens' initiative of the people to decide, on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 72, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of Civil Initiative by act of 13 June 2018 and to submit the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. It is also called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to check whether the signatures were collected in accordance with the provisions of Article. 8c of the referendum law and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local, regional self-government. On the basis of the second, under Art. Paragraph 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of voters' signatures and requests for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative to be called upon to decide on the amendment of the article. 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which provided the President of the Croatian Parliament with the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative by act of 13.6.2018 and that the report on the verification of the delivery carried out to the Croatian Parliament, is also called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures were collected in accordance with the provisions of the Article. 8 c of the referendum law, etc. That's what the citizens' initiative decides. Let me also present here a second proposal for a conclusion relating to the citizens' initiative of truth about Istanbul. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament, discussed the request at its 37th session on 28 June 2018 for a national referendum on the citizens' initiative on the truth about Istanbul. The Committee discussed the request on the basis of its competence under Article 20.6.2018. The 60th Rules of Procedure shall, on the basis of its jurisdiction, be bound by the Committee to determine the fulfilment of the presumption of the Article. Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate expressed its opinion that it is necessary to pass the law as soon as possible, which will, in a comprehensive and systematic manner, regulate the matter of the referendum. In addition, it was stressed that the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia did not properly regulate the matter of the referendum. It is necessary to change them, in order to create a precondition for the creation of a new and better-quality normative framework for the issue of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia. Since the current law, which regulates the question of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia, is not prescribed who is carrying out the number and credibility of the voters' census, the Committee has unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the voter's signature and request to call a state referendum on the citizens' initiative truth on Istanbul, to which the President of the Croatian Parliament was sent by the Organizational Committee of Civil Initiative by an act of 20.6.2018 and to submit the report on the verification carried out to the Croatian Assembly. It also calls on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to check whether the signatures have been collected, in accordance with the provisions of Article. 8 C of the referendum law and other forms of personal participation, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90057	Thank you. We have six replicas on your display, the first colleague is Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90058	Honorable Vice President, dear colleague of the coat of honor, you read the minutes here from the session. You only read part of it as far as I can see, you chose one part, you chose the part that you were saying, and what the other MPs were saying, for example. I, you didn't mention it, so here, you read it as it was pointed out that there were some tensions in society, against minorities, and that something had gone backwards in the Republic of Croatia, and you didn't mention and read the part that was also clearly said there, about your colleague Obersnel who tried to end, undemocratic means to prevent a referendum in the city of Rijeka, and he actually succeeded. Not only Rijeka, that we understand each other, but other cities, so I think this is a little bit tending, to read only part of the record, you shouldn't have read part of the record, but you should have just read the conclusion and you did it eventually.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90059	Answer, there you go, buddy Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90060	... Comrade Zekanovic, do you read the materials you receive as a parliamentary representative? [[Specially enabled.]] I'd say you're not reading. Because if you were reading the materials, then last week when you got these materials and got them and then on Friday, when we voted on the completion of the agenda and when the president of the Croatian Parliament called you from this place and asked if you had any objections to the inclusion of a single item in the agenda, the remarks pointed out. However, dear colleague, you have not done so, and you are now making some remarks here, yet you are attacking Mr. Obersnel again, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has done in an adequate manner, regardless of how the Constitutional Court has pointed out in its decision how the truth team lied about Istanbul, but not longer, you have the right to apply, you have the right to speak, you have the right to say whatever it wants, will enter the record and then let him read who he wants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90061	Thank you. The next replica, counterpart Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90062	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, it is almost embarrassing between May and November 2018 when Croatia holds the presidency of the Council of Europe, which first highlights promotions, for example. Istanbul Conventions and the Rights of National Minorities, in the Croatian Assembly to discuss the initiatives of marginal, exclusive groups that want to restrict the rights of national minorities, who want to restrict women's right to protect against domestic violence as they both lie, deceive and forge signatures they have collected at their rape of democracy in Croatia because they later collected imagine how much, 10% of signatures more because so far it is known that counting always shows that 10% of the signatures are wrongly collected. So, in the meantime, they staged, faked, invented 10% of the additional signatures. I would like to actually be a referendum and make it a loud minority silent most of Croatia finally shows where they belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90063	Thank you. Prior to responding to the replica, counterpart Zekanovic points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90064	Yes, that's right, 238. In view of 238, it means insulting fellow MPs since there are colleagues here who were very active in the referendum, who were volunteers, he called them liars, forgers. A colleague of Jovanovic, I think he's a vocabulary, and even today you've shown it, it's not right, so try to control yourself in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90065	He didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. But now my colleague Jovanovic is looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90066	In Article 238, where he speaks falsely, he demeans MPs, let him state the name of any parliamentary representative whom I have offended in my act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90067	Okay, this was in response to the replica, but as I said, colleague Jovanovic, he did not harm the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing to respond to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Radin just said that we are here dealing with technical matters related to the referendum. However, the workman's colleague was only somewhat right because the Croatian Parliament cannot deal only with technicals. The Croatian Parliament cannot fail to measure what it is discussing. And that is why respected colleagues and colleagues, I am now going to tell my colleagues what these two referendum initiatives are about. One thing is that someone has a problem with women in the Republic of Croatia getting more protection from violence than they've ever had before, so they want to reduce that level of protection by a referendum. That's the first one. Secondly, the referendum only wants one part of the Republic of Croatia because they are members of another national minority and regardless of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, they are resident, paying taxes, etc., they are deprived of their right to vote. I wonder if they'll take away their right to defend... [[The speakers don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90069	A fellow coat of arms, thank you. Next replica, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90070	I have explored what Mr. Grbin has now said with one sentence that he is seeking Croatia, which will only be made up of Croats who will be able to beat the Croats. That's actually the goal of these three questions and two referendums, but my question is technically because I said that, before I said we mostly deal with technique. Comrade Grbin, did someone ask a question on the board since these signatures came a long time after the deadline, did they collect signatures after the deadline, and did someone actually control it, did the last day when the deadline expired, and the collection of signatures expired?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90071	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90072	Dear fellow Radin, you and I come from a region that is tolerated, which is open to members of all national minorities, who do not make a difference to whether someone is Croat, Italian, Serb or something, and that is why we understand each other so well when we talk about this issue. If you're asking me if someone opened this issue that you mentioned and it concerns the collection of signatures, it was, colleague Bauk, when we discussed the People's decision initiative, when we discussed the Truth about Istanbul initiative, and that's why the proposal concluded that the government had asked whether the signatures were collected in accordance with Article 8c of the referendum Act, and that's why, at the point of view of the committee that I brought here, because the chairman of the board couldn't do it tonight, it entered into the committee that we agree that the current referendum framework is insufficient and should be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90073	Thank you. Replica number 4, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90074	The Honorable Chairman and Honorable Mr. Peja Grbin. I would like to say that it is often discussed whether referendum issues are in accordance with the Constitution or not. And there was a strong public debate. I think that, for this reason, the referendum law should be amended in a way that when someone wants to make a referendum first asks the Constitutional Court whether a referendum can be discussed on this matter, and then if the Constitutional Court says that the issues are constitutional, it is possible to go into signing or otherwise, if it says it is not possible, that it simply does not collect signatures. The current system is actually bizarre. What are you doing? You do a circus where hundreds of thousands of people go to sign something, try, collect those signatures, and then eventually tell them boys, I'm sorry it's not in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90075	Thank you, colleague Pernar. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90076	Dear colleague Pernar, since you spoke to me immediately, I am not the one doing this circus and I am not part of this referendum initiative or circus as you have called it for the referendum initiative. However, back to the first part of your replica, and I must say, I fully agree with you. And that is why I call on you to support the initiative launched by us by 50 MPs to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia right in the section relating to the referendum because that amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the first step towards the next amendment of the Constitutional Court law, because it is necessary to amend the Constitutional Court's constitutional law in order to first define what the referendum cannot be called upon and the reduction of human rights is something that the referendum should not be called upon, and then it is necessary to amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court, in order that the Constitutional Court, in the framework of the guidelines set up by MPs in the Croatian Assembly and against the Constitution, may decide first on constitutionality and... a referendum question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90077	Thank you, comrade Grbin. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90078	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I think that, especially when it comes to the Istanbul Convention and the referendum that has actually opened a new issue, which is that it must be prescribed a period within which the signed lists must be delivered. Because the company that worked on the referendum question certainly was sure that they were sure of the sufficient number of signatures collected to launch the referendum would say so immediately. We've had it with two weeks late, and it's obvious something that we need to set deadlines. From each such initiative, there is a need to learn something and, in that sense, to amend the legislative frameworks. This is one of the legislative frameworks that needs to be changed for sure, so I am also interested in your position in that regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90079	Answer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90080	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman. You forgot to mention something important, not only did a lot of signing stunts at the end of their formal, formal collection, but something even more interesting happened. From the moment the signatures were first counted in the week after they were collected until the moment they were handed over to the Croatian Parliament, their number grew even though they were no longer allowed to collect. However, to return to and from you to what you said first. I agree fully with you, and I support everything you said about the need to amend the referendum law. But in order for that change to make sense, we need to take previous steps and that's what I was saying to my colleague Pernar. We must amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the section relating to Article 87. We must amend the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court and after that we must amend the Law on Referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90081	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90082	Dear colleague Grbin, I have nothing to replicate to you since you have read the board's conclusions. But what is unfortunate is that here we are at 8.40 discussing these two important topics that are different, one regarding the change of the electoral system, one concerning the cancellation of one contract that ratified this Croatian Parliament. And there was no hearing, obviously some kind of deal. This morning, my colleague Bacic told me that it was a good thing that there was a problem this morning about the pension reform so that this referendum story would be in as late as possible. I don't think there's a need for tensions, for hard words, this is a plural society where everyone needs to be able to express their views and opinions. And neither should anyone be offended because he signed something or didn't sign it. We have a situation where the prime minister calls 400,000 people marginals. It's not a good message for society, this society has to respect every citizen of its and make it possible for every citizen to declare his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90083	Thank you. Replication response. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90084	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I also have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a response to the replica. In a specific case, I just wanted to warn you that when a representative says he does not give me a replica because he cannot give me a replica, then you should warn him that, in accordance with Article 235 of the replica, the replica should go on display. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90085	... Answer the replica now? [[Specially enabled.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague of the Grmoi. Each of us was a representative in the Parliament, was he a doctor, was he a lawyer, was he a teacher at school, was a citizen who only signed a referendum initiative must stand behind what he signed. And he must be aware that each such signature has a certain meaning and weight. If, in a particular case, the signature means that in Croatia, the possibility is opened to someone just because other nationalities are reduced by the rights that you or I have, then I reserve the right to here in this House and anywhere else point to the harmfulness of such a signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90087	Another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90088	A colleague of the coat of arms broke Article 235 if Mr. Grmoya didn't answer him, gave him a replica of the exhibit, then he couldn't answer his line because he wasn't there, did he?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90089	And now what I'm saying is, 235 has nothing to do with anything, it was supposed to be 238, but we're moving on in brighter tones. I'm opening a debate. The first application on behalf of the club of independent lists, is colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90090	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm no longer surprised that the important constitutional issues are on behalf of the club I have in general after 8:00 and this is still 3 today that it's not too late, because there has been a time, which I remember that after 22 hours and after 23 hours, when democratic parliaments are no longer sitting, when work is interrupted, when it continues the second day, we generally discuss the most important topics when the lights are turned off, when there are no more television, when citizens are watching the Dnevnik or some other program in... But, certainly, there is no more transfer of the Croatian Parliament, and it is clear that this is not the case, that it is deliberately chosen that time, when the less they will actually see and hear what we are discussing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's new today compared to earlier situations when I put it on behalf of the club, is the fact that today's directorship is not on the side of the ruling party, which is usually the president or vice president behind me and the motionary who is from the government, but today we have a chairman from the SDP rapporteur committee, who is the proposer, not the president of the HDZ, but the SDP. And it's interesting that today's opposition party has not accepted that this topic be postponed for the next day and that we discuss it in the morning. If you're so convinced of your arguments, why didn't you choose a term in which all citizens would be able to hear it, not this evening's late-night term, if you're so convinced of your arguments. You had an ideal opportunity, you were chairing the session, so you could have solved it in one minute, you even had a proposal from your fellow Grumo. You said at the beginning that the issue is technically, therefore, the question of identifying the number and credible signatures of citizens who have signed for two referendum citizens' initiatives. And all I've heard so far have been at least technical details and in fact a large number of replicas and answers concern not technical issues, but essential issues of the contents of the referendum issues, we said, and you said we're not going to discuss it today. On behalf of the club, I will therefore limit myself to what is the subject of these points today, which is the request of the Croatian Parliament to refer to a government conclusion authorising a certain state body to verify the number and credibility of the signature. The fact is that more than 400,000 signatures were collected in these referendum initiatives for the 2 people's initiatives, and a little more than 377 signatures of the citizens' truth initiative on Istanbul. The fact is that civil referendum initiatives that collect an extremely large number of signatures required by the Croatian Constitution in an extremely short time are very rare, we could list them almost on the fingers of two hands. Every few years it happens that an initiative with a very strong organisation or possibly a logistics of success on some very important topics, provides a large number of signatures, which is sometimes not enough and we remember a few years ago, when 15 trade unions and 7 NGOs collected signatures for so-called. a referendum on the referendum, that they collected about 50,000 signatures, which was not enough then to call a referendum. Because the Constitutional Court, as we know after the initiative, which was similar to the topic of reforming the electoral system, we choose representatives by name and last name, found that around 400,000 signatures were required for the initiative, although only 380,000 were collected. In any case, we can say that under very difficult conditions, which have been partially disabled by the action of individual leaders of the local self-government body, resulted in a very significant number of signatures. That this testifies to a very significant and powerful social energy, which is actually contained in these issues, because in a country where you have fewer than 4 million voters who can sign a referendum initiative, collect 10% within a short period of 15 days, in conditions where you have a number of procedural difficulties with obtaining appropriate seats, with significant financial costs of renting, public space, in numerous units of local self-government, it is extremely difficult to collect the required number of signatures under such conditions. Croatia is one of the most restrictive European states that know the citizens' initiative when it comes to the constitutional and legislative framework for citizens' initiatives. Unfortunately, this certainly makes it very difficult for any citizen's initiative to succeed, and for that, of course, they do occur in a slow way, but when they do, usually issues that are very important to the citizens or in any way they succeed, this interest of the citizens is enough to encourage such a number of signatures to be collected. And that is why it is not good and we do not agree at the Most Representatives' Club when given the huge number of citizens' signatures as a kind of petition at the moment we still do not have a credible number of signatures and this will be established in due course. But in any case, one of the most important petitions in which citizens say state authorities tell this Croatian Parliament that they want to highlight a particular issue that is important to them. Today, we will not talk about the content of these questions nor enter into whether they are in harmony with the Constitution or not. This is a special topic that will be on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament if formal assumptions for the call are reached when the exact number of signatures will be known. And that is why we are not going to talk about these topics that are the issue of constitutionality of referendum issues. But in any case talk about initiatives and about all citizens who have signed these initiatives, that it is about marginal groups or marginalists is at least inappropriate. Any government, any government and the Croatian Parliament when faced with the signature of 400 thousand citizens must respect in a certain sense what citizens at this time at least as a petition are delivering to the Croatian Parliament. Let us remember 4 years ago when there were 380 thousand signatures for the proposal for a reform of the electoral system concerning the introduction of three preferential votes. That's when 380,000 signatures were collected. According to the Constitutional Court's decision, it was not enough to carry out a referendum, but at the time, the Croatian Parliament somehow took the initiative as at least one petition signed by a very large number of citizens, and at least partially, although it came to a minimum meeting with the petition and strengthened the elections for the Croatian Parliament one preferential vote, even with that 10% threshold. Not enough, but at least partially respected what the citizens wanted. Unfortunately, for the time being, there does not seem to be at least a similar mood in the majority that has so far been said about it or in the biggest parties. And the fact that many politicians and HDZ say that they have nothing against preferential voting and three preferential votes and how the other parties say about it, is that we have more than a year on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of a proposal for a law that says that citizens would have the right to three preferential votes, although with those 10% as a condition of a total number of votes for a list, we are asking a question at the Most Representatives' Club, if so, the undivided will and interest that preferential voting be given to citizens in a way that they have three preferential votes, if this is signed by 400 thousand citizens, which is why this Law is not on the agenda and why we do not decide on it? One aspect of this important electoral reform would be accepted and the Croatian Parliament could at least do that, at least. Because all the statements they make, all the political statements that parties and political leaders have nothing against preferential voting fall into the water given the fact that this Law is more than a year on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. And finally, let me say something about formal assumptions and what the Croatian Parliament should do. Yes, the constitutional framework is very bad, the legislative framework is very bad, but the fact is that this framework is bad only because the parties that have the required 2/3 majority did not want the framework to be quality. The constitutional framework that requires the signing of 10% of citizens in the Republic of Croatia is extremely restrictive. The fact is that in this constitutional framework, what was mentioned earlier should certainly be incorporated into the Constitution. That the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia decides on the constitutionality of a particular issue... when an enormous number of signatures is collected than on the basis of a certain smaller number to be defined by the Constitution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The number of signatures could be around 5 or 10,000 signatures that would be a sign of a serious referendum initiative, when the number of signatures would be collected, then the Constitutional Court would declare the constitutionality of a particular issue. It must be regulated by the Constitution. I remember 5 years ago when the referendum was also a central topic and when the proposal to regulate it was the Constitution, and that was the proposal then also the Committee on the Constitution, was the subject of debate when it was respected... who was then an external member of the Committee on the Constitution said that this must be the content of the referendum provision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitutional Court's decision before citizens collect the required number of signatures which is now 10% So it is not fulfilled, and only after that is defined by the Constitution should the legislative framework be regulated only then. And the time to sign and the way to collect signatures and all other conditions that must be appropriate to one referendum initiative. And in our opinion similar to the process that takes place when citizens sign political candidates for parties and independent candidates in parliamentary or local elections or when it comes to presidential elections. There is no difference in this process being different for a referendum than it is in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90091	Thank you. Before my colleague Furia Radina, I would only mention here, Mr Podolnjak, that, in accordance with Article 228, the President of the Parliament will, as a rule, publish what points of the agenda will be discussed. So, I'm a technical person here as vice president of the Parliament who runs the session. I can't, because there's something called collegiation, but I'm not going into discussions right now that are absolutely unnecessary at this time. Here's my colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. I told my colleague, the coat of arms, that it would be a technical question. A fellow coat of arms partially respected me and partly denied me. Afterwards, counterpart Podolnjak also said that if this is a matter of technical nature should be spoken only technically and not only technically, but also spoke about preferential votes and content itself. To me here who I intended to speak only of the signatures there is nothing left but to speak as you do. So a little technical and a little content. As far as the technical side is concerned, it must be far more present and far more important. The fact is, the law says the signatures must be collected within 15 days. In my humble, modest ability to reason, it should mean that that 15th day these signatures should be in a place where they can no longer be touched and those signatures must be in a place where they can no longer be manipulated and can no longer be contaminated. Instead, it happened the other way around. First it was a number, and then I don't know how many days it was ten days, 15 days, more, when they finally brought them in, then that number, it typed up that number to the number that was shown and represented as the error option number. It doesn't have to be Einstein or Tesla to realize that someone did something with those signatures. They were at his house? It was said that, yes, it was said, my colleague Zekanovic, don't throw it at me, after me. It's obvious these signatures were manipulated. Why didn't those signatures come right away? So those who have to verify the signatures that is actually this Parliament, that is, this Parliament is giving the government that request. And don't talk to me about volunteering and that there were volunteers amongst the MPs. What do I care if you were a volunteer? And I don't care if you think those signatures aren't manipulated. Why aren't they handed over right now? What's the reason these signatures weren't handed over immediately? It's just one of the questions that I'm going to put on the side of any note at all because it's not necessary to talk about that problem at all. These referendums concern the reduction of human rights. And now I'm going to move on to content, reduction and discrimination of human rights. Anyone who in countries where referendums are a common thing like Switzerland, such as some states of the United States, everyone knows that the referendum is and imagined to advance citizens' rights. And it can't diminish the rights of citizens or parts of those citizens. It is impossible for a colleague of Podolnjak, you said one sentence – if the case is with 400 thousand signatures, a referendum must be discussed. You said it. [[...the incursion is not understood]] I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90093	Please don't throw anything away if you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90094	I wrote it down. It is a figure that suggests that a referendum must be implemented because it is the will of a large number of citizens. So what if I, for example, did? I collect at one point, for example. There's a brutal murder going on, indeed, that disgusts the nation. I'm telling you that, for example. killing a young person, not to go into detail because there's no point. And that I'm looking and I'm going to collect and I'm asking the local self-government to put the benches on me so that I can collect the signatures for the death penalty there. Would that be allowed? ... Would that be allowed, please, Mr. Pernar, provocation is a provocation, human rights are human rights. [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] [[Mr. Pernar, please throw away.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90095	Mr. Pernar, in accordance with Article 239, I'm giving you a notice about the discard. The raider, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90096	Come on, don't give him a warning, please. And don't say you'd sign for that referendum. ... [[No, no, I'll give it to him.]] Why are you doing this? [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] [[Pernar, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90097	Here, here, here, now I have to give you a heads-up on taking the word out. Mr. Pernar, I'm giving you a word-absorbing warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90098	Come on, let's go like that, just someone who doesn't have a developed social consciousness claims that a death sentence should be reintroduced. I'm sorry because civilized peoples don't have a death sentence because you can't be a member of any serious organization in the world that's not semi-criminal, and that you have a death sentence, or you're going to live in one of the states that still has a death sentence, but those countries in the United States are also considered backwards and the states that should end it because the death penalty is actually something that is against man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90099	... I beg you, don't, don't, don't, please. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90100	Mr. Doncic, if you don't withdraw your notice by taking my word, I will have to be brought up by the guards here because I am not giving up my right and expressing my opinion. I've been elected here to the Croatian Parliament, I have the right to speak I'm just asking you to withdraw the warning. [[Please don't do this, come on.]] I am not going to let you conduct this session like that, Mr. Doncic, feel free to call the Assembly Watch. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Can't withdraw a reminder, please don't do that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90101	.../Intruder Hajdash Doncic, please step away from the session./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90102	No way, sir, call the guards. If you're willing to go all the way, I'm also ready to fall and see who it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90103	And what can I tell you, a five-minute break? It's 9:00. CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING 21.05 AN HOUR OF EXCUSE. Go ahead, go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90105	Thank you very much. So there was a brief session for those who came after because there was an inappropriate controversy over the death penalty referendum. Mr. Pernar was for that referendum, and I mentioned it as something that should never happen. That's the whole story, and the most likely story is performance. So we're moving on. I'll do it again. Mr. Podolnjak, you said that a society that faces 400 thousand signatures should actually be seriously questioned by a referendum that could be agreed if every question in the referendum was allowed. I'll do it again. You also said that it was about, that you didn't say it was someone else's, that it was about that said by Mr. Grmoya when he asked us not to discuss in the late hours that we were talking about having big questions because for example. One question is the termination of a contract. What contract are we talking about? It's about reading exactly because we've called it the Istanbul Convention more than once, it's about the Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But now I'm getting into the metrics because everyone else was coming in, so then I have to go into the metrics. It means preventing violence against women, which was first signed by Turkey, signed by Spain, without the Bishop's Conference saying neither A nor any civil initiative that has the claim to represent the entire people. In Italy, I follow the diary of Laveniere Bishop's Conference on various issues, it's a very good list. It was only spoken of with praise, and when it came to Parliament, the Istanbul Convention was ratified with one abstention of 900 and some MPs and senators. A few days ago, I met with an Irish ambassador who also told me that in Ireland it did not cause any problem. I'm talking all on purpose about Catholic countries that have strong, very strong bishopial conferences. And if we're talking about countries that are always the example of these here, for example, in Croatia. Germany. In Germany, the Bishop's Conference praised the Istanbul Convention. Here we have a whole movement that has actually taken the Istanbul Convention and that part of the Istanbul Convention mentions the stork. I'll say it, but it's my opinion of inventing some kind of gender ideology, but I wouldn't mind having birth theories inside to actually start a whole political project. Because taking that question means the Istanbul Convention, which speaks of violence against women, means according to a different, weaker, physically weaker sex, physically weaker sex. I guess that's what we'll agree on. Mostly physically weaker, and it is violence, and the other two issues in the second referendum concern the weaker part of the population, because it is very clear that the number of minority members is less than the number of members of the majority and that there is therefore something called positive discrimination in order to balance it in some way. This is one, these seats in parliament are one of the rights that are part of that part, part of positive discrimination and that was actually introduced into Croatian political life in 92. Someone's going to say, we brought him in to confess us. But I always hoped we'd bring him in because we believed it. Someone's going to say it was actually a way for us to show the West that we're symbilized. There he is, maybe that's it. And in any case the then president, President Tudjman and then HDZ on which it was in the mandates when I was the opposition he introduced something he had. That please now, there are few of us but try to hear well in which there were five small minority members and 13 Serbs, 13. In 1995 immediately after the Storm, the number of small minorities remained the same, the number of Serb national minorities was down to three, of course with our vote against, but. After that, in 1999, that number of 3 was down to 1. Why am I saying that? I'm talking because today there's one whole wave of opinions that says that what used to be one today is 3. Not what used to be 13, today is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90106	Comrade Radin, excuse me, your time is up. Thank you very much. We had one violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90107	But there was a bit of a weird speech because it was... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90108	Thank you, too. And thank you, too, for giving up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Milorad Pupovac, in front of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90109	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. An unusual time, an unusual subject and an even more unusual cause for discussion. In a country that loses an increasing population from day to day, a country in which, after a certain period of improvement of minority positions, we record a deterioration in minority positions. In a country that is under the burden of uncertainty whether it will have to pay out pensions tomorrow and at the same time in a country that suffers under a different kind of obligation which it has made towards certain groups was the basis of international contracts such as the Concordate, there were own laws such as the Law on the Rights of Defence, in a country that loses from day to day at the international game of equality of its citizens with citizens of other countries, we are dealing with referendum initiatives in which the biggest problem of the political system, the biggest issue of morality in this country is the issue of minorities and the issue of women's rights. So after a period of predominance of neoliberal ideology that lasted up to about 5 years ago, we now have the beginning of the development of the domination of ultraconservative ideology, which now disturbs the values that were protected even at the time of the socialist order in Eastern Europe. There were many things to be touched but women were right and minorities should not be touched. If one of the Croats in the Federation of Yugoslavia had gone to determine the way they would be represented in the Yugoslav Federation or if any other republic had decided whether or not they could go to a referendum on independence, it would have been considered an absolute non-democratic act. But today, in today's Croatia it is possible to organise a referendum and under the cover of repairing the electoral system is actually going to reduce minority rights. So it is not debated that minorities, the majority of minorities, live in the most underdeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia, 55% of Serbs live in areas that are in the 1-4th class, also in Hungary, also in Slovakia, and also in the Czech Republic. Rarely, they have a better position. It is a privilege in Croatia. Privilege is the same when people who have been elected on special minority lists talk about it. And I'm going to tell you respected colleagues and colleagues is not a privilege. In the years I've never felt privileged in the House, I've always felt demoted. For many reasons. First because I represent the demoted people and the citizens of II. Orders and other because I'm always seen as a Serb and not as a man and as a citizen. And in this country to be seen as a Serb, it is enough for me to look at the fate of Daniel Subasic and his experience with love, a Croatian hero in the football world who had no right to normal love like many children, and I would like to tell you about it, because of prejudice, because of hatred, because of intolerance. And this referendum instead of taking arguments as to why it is necessary to change the electoral system, it finds no argument, but says to people who, in the White monastery, come to Mass before the Catholic Church, come to sign against Pupovac. Who is in Sava, Zagreb, invites people, including my associates, to sign against Pupovac. Well, you don't have to sign against Pupovec. In a system like this, the Pupovec was long written off. In this system, many representatives of national minorities have long been written off. But to declare representatives of national minorities to moral, anomalous humanoids, to lie about how only in Croatia there is a system of representation of national minorities, that is inadmissible. That's what people who ran the campaign used to do. As much as Professor Podolonjak tried to say how justified it was to talk about 3 preferential mandates, but not the 3 preferential mandates of his colleague Podolnjak were ješno, the ješa were Serbs and minorities. This was an anti-mmmanian referendum and it's leading an anti-majority campaign. Long unleaded in the Republic of Croatia. After so many expelled hundreds of thousands of members of national minorities in the 20th century after so many of those who were killed in 2nd St. The war. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90110	A breach of the rules of procedure, all right, I'm enrolling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90111	Lying about the Roma and MP Keatazi, that he was elected from 83 votes, as it was during the campaign, only amoral people can. After the Roma almost had total extinction, especially in '42. Mr. Man who is so committed to the exercise of the right of the Roma, and we have a dilemma about what to do with it. Count, of course, but count each and check every signature, because this is a narrow margin, collected on extremely deep terms. So, to say that today minorities and their representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the biggest problem of the political system is dangerous deception and dangerous deception. We've had it on more than one occasion, but we haven't had it in a long time since '96. We've been recovering since the war since '96. We are recovering from policies that were more negative in some of our elements. Bringing us back in time under the cover of noble goals is an extremely dangerous job. As for the Istanbul Convention, there is one thing in common, the people's initiatives also decide to amend the Istanbul Convention, which is that the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, de facto a constitutional act of Croatian independence, is completely disregarded. An act that was a condition for international recognition, an act that was a condition for membership in the Council of Europe, an act that was a condition for EU accession. And we who, through various political parties, made Croatia successfully complete its negotiations in 2011 and join the EU, did not see who was who. Who is HNS, who is HDZ, who is SDP, who is SDSS, who is which third party. We worked together with each other. But today some institutions have become rich and can have their own non-governmental sector that will launch such initiatives. Today, the state is generously paying the institutions, so that they can blackmail every government and tear down every government. Such a hollow referendum framework. And I'm going to say one more thing about the Istanbul story, markatism in America, '60s. Mr. and the production of communist witches and gender ideology campaigns have one common place. And that's what you stick the label on someone and you say you're a representative of gender ideology, you're a communist in... Time and God help you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are you going to defend yourself with? Nothing. Because you're raising the lowest passion. You don't care about the truth, you don't care about the argument, you don't care about someone's statement and someone's attitudes, you put everything in the same basket, and so does this. Our colleague from Berkeley Judy Butler didn't invent her own ideology. Some people here and some people from the NGO's ultraconservative circle invented their own ideology. They've made a deadline, they've formed a discourse and they're running a campaign. It can be debated, agreed or disagreed, but it cannot be discussed with them because they are not in favour of contention. They only still use this minimum liberal framework for discussion and for the right to speak in which the others will not have the right to speak tomorrow, but only they will have the right to speak. And as the question of minority rights ultimately has one goal, which is instead of creating a political party, you form an alliance of NGOs, you take a referendum initiative, and tomorrow you show up at the elections and you win power. And you don't care about the consequences. What will remain of the country, which will remain of the people, which will remain of the political system. For such an initiative, every political one that is here, not just the SDSS and Pupovac is too high and dangerous. These are totalitarian intentions, they are totalitarian intentions that are against pluralism and that are against what enables them, which is the liberal atmosphere we still have in the country. That's why it's not just Wednesdays if we're going to protect women from violence, and we have to protect them. It's Wednesday if we're going to protect the Republic we still have in the minima.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90112	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. Comrade Dolnjak, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90113	Mr. Vice President, a fellow Pupovac has injured an officer. 238. A Rules of Procedure that demeaned the MP personally by calling from a pay phone, incorrectly. On behalf of the Club of Representatives, there is no other representative who cannot replicate it. I find it absolutely incorrect and it is not done, it can be done in individual exposure, then it can be answered, but not in the name of the club to address directly in the way you have addressed yourself by making it impossible for a representative to at least try to answer you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90114	Thank you. Also, no injured Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90115	Injury. 285th Dear There's no point to that, I hope. [[Hajdash-Dončić: 238.]] It makes as much sense as intervention colleagues... He knows it very well, just as he did, as a man who wrote an explanation, who wrote questions on the referendum initiative has... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90116	A fellow navel, please. Comrade Pupovci, I'm giving you a warning. ... I'm not gonna kick you out, I'm giving you a warning. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90117	Throw me out, like Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90118	So what about you, my people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90119	Because this is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90120	Please, I'm giving you a warning. Have a seat, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90121	Dear Chairman, the violation of the Rules of Procedure by colleagues of Pupovac 238. So there's no reason for this tension here in the assembly. You treated your colleague, Pernar, I'd say very harshly, and now we've had one statement completely means unexpected, unprovoked anything. My colleague Dolnjak has injured the Rules of Procedure, and it is up to you to... And right at the beginning of this debate, I called on all the participants to bring down tensions... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90122	Thank you. A fellow bud got a warning, thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next is Marko Simic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90123	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Assembly discussed the requirements for the call for a referendum of citizens' initiatives People also decides the truth about the Istanbul Convention, and the conclusions contained in the report submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System have been reached by the Croatian Assembly. It is clear from these conclusions that the Committee is putting the signature of the delivery to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the verification of their regularity and credibility, and that all this is done in accordance with the Law on Referendum. The Committee discussed the requests in question on the basis of its competence under Article 1(1). 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and by unanimous decisions are decided on the basis of Article. 127, ct. 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that the Government should therefore verify the number and credibility of the signatures collected. It is also called on the government to verify whether these signatures are collected in accordance with Article. 8.c of the Referendum Act. It is important to note that what we are discussing today is purely procedural and it is completely irrelevant that this debate takes place in this hour which some will call late. But at the beginning of the week, however, we got a schedule for each day of this week and we knew that we had 8 points of the agenda and that, as the final points of the agenda, there were 7 and 8 therefore, discussions on referendum issues, i.e. requests for a referendum. As a member of the Committee on the Constitution, I must say that there has been a lot of talk at the Committee's session about the number of signatures needed to call the referendum and that much has been discussed. In a few lines, I'll look back at that part of the report. So, in 2012, the Law on Election Register was passed and was defined by the register of voters as a broader set of data on all voters, Croatian citizens resident in the Republic of Croatia, Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia, and citizens of EU Member States who exercise voting rights in Croatia. Due to the up-to-dateness of each election, a list of voters is drawn up. 4 million 504 thousand 765 voters were in the European Parliament's election list of 3 million 767 thousand 343 voters prior to the adoption of the Law on the register of voters in a referendum on entry into the European Union. I'm saying, in fact, that these numbers actually vary from election to election, or referendum in a significant and very different way. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 86 provides that the Croatian Parliament will call a referendum if it requires 10% of the total number of voters in the Republic of Croatia and the current question which is the absolute number of voters and how many, therefore, 10% of that number. According to this data, the ministry has determined before the signing of these citizens' initiatives is 10% of that number, so that the number of voters that the ministry has issued stemming from the Law on the List of Voters, the Constitutional Court Decisions, because the number of voters from 10 constituency units and the number of voters in the 12th constituency, therefore, members of national minorities who are not in the general signature in 10 constituencies. I will only point out that we have 12 electoral units in the Republic of Croatia, with the 11th constituency unit for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia residing outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the reality of the voter should be considered and their actual number taken into account, therefore, when collecting or considering the number of voters. Otherwise, in 2014 I will remind myself that after the Constitutional Court decision, a respected professor from the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, Djordže Gardasevic gave one review and one opinion legally on the number of voters and rights, or the number of necessary signatures, to the one who can sign the referendum initiative and who can exercise the right to vote in the referendum. I will not go into the details and explain, but it is important to know, however, that many constitutional experts have actually given some sort of court, or my own court, which I consider relevant in this area, so I would not go into further interpretations. We also met with problems in today's debates that civil initiatives had some problems collecting signatures, but I will note that it is known that one initiative addressed the Constitutional Court regarding the ban on collecting signatures and filed a complaint against the State Election Commission. But the Constitutional Court dismissed the appeal for the reason it was pre-referendum activities. Some ignore the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision states that the signatures have been collected at several locations and that there are enough places for citizens to declare support or not to give, giving or not supporting this referendum. As I have pointed out, it is a procedural matter that I would not discuss the metrics today, and I will discuss it when there is a topic and a point of the agenda. In addition to the irregularities we heard from one side, or from the citizens' initiative, I must stress that certain irregularities, which I could find at first sight as an observer of this whole process, were in fact completely inappropriate that the facts that I believe were unverified, so in part, in the good part, I will not say that they were a lie, but surely in part they did not answer the truth specifically for the referendum issues related to the rights of certain groups in society in the Republic of Croatia. The Committee also discussed the need for a referendum law, therefore, of a new draft law. In this new draft law, special attention should be paid to regulatory solutions relating to the conditions for the launch of a referendum on the citizens' initiative, thereby giving the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system visible from its report the opinion that a law should be adopted as soon as possible which will address the matter of the referendum in a comprehensive and systematic manner. In addition, it has been stressed that the provisions of the Constitution do not fully regulate the questions of the referendum in a proper manner and that they need to be amended to create a prerequisite for the creation of a new and better quality normative framework for the issue of referendums in the Republic of Croatia. So I don't have a habit on behalf of the club to put in some kind of own attitudes, but here during this debate, I noticed a little something I'd like to look back on, and I'm sure the representatives from my club would share the same attitude and opinion. Today, a Croatian football player, a man who brought us victory yesterday, has been named here and we are terribly proud. I as a member of the Croatian Democratic Community, as a young politician. So our football players and people in society don't really share and I don't distinguish by some national basis. These people wear Croatian uniforms, they are our pride, they are our heroes, heroes, so are Rakitiæ, Subasic and Modric and my boys from Slavonski Broda Mandžukić until recently and I think they all did something we haven't done in the Croatian Parliament for a long time. They united the nation for at least two, three hours as long as the victory of the Croatian team was celebrated until night. I think such successes and such situations that we will all be united about need much more. At that time, we would have a better demographic picture in Croatia and had fewer departures and we would have politicians with the goal of joining the Croatian Parliament to discuss the measure of certain things that would contribute to the success and prosperity of the state and I am sure that all citizens in Croatia would be better off. I'm just going to conclude, and I won't continue to owe my debate. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the report and conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90124	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club, Glas and HSU are colleagues Goran Beus and counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, who will share the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90125	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. These two Reports on the request to call a state referendum for which we have come together to discuss our views on behalf of the Voice and HSU Club, we are launching colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash who will say more about the request for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative Truth on Istanbul, and I will concentrate more on the Citizens' Initiative The People decide on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has come a long way to build its constitutional order from the general theoretical premise that the state is an invisible and unwritten contract of citizens who have agreed to establish it primarily, to ensure security, equality before the law. Security and equality against the law so that they can achieve all their specialities and their personal freedom. The only people of free individuals are actually free people. The Croats had long sought and dreamed of being a community of free people. In their quest for freedom, they are often realizing in fact that the political nation is created by a whole series of elements, so if you want and ethnos realized that their identity is not one, but multiple. And in the periods of their history when they had that in mind they had the brightest moments, and that moment was the moment when the vast majority of citizens in the Republic of Croatia defined themselves as an independent and sovereign Republic of Croatia in a referendum. At that time, people, voting in the referendum, expressed their desire to live in a free country, but as I said, there is neither a free nation nor a free country if there are unfree citizens, if the framework of security is not provided for citizens to achieve their freedoms in which they will achieve themselves as an individual and all their aspirations to be members of the community. Croatia is fortunate to have in its multi-identified heritage great shares of its sons and daughters, whose fathers or grandfathers came from elsewhere and carried some other non-domestic last name and fabricated what they knew as great Croatian people, as Croatian giants what we today live as a generation in this time of heritage as their own regardless of whether they were called Strossmayer, Koh, Preradović, Ružička, Prelog, Tiffnbach, Tanhofen, Right or otherwise. And we're lucky because we inherit their legacy. But as if from time to time some wicked winds are blowing the sails of the people of bad intentions, so sometimes the clouds build up that inspire especially those whose idea of intolerance is so close that they would be happy with the legal framework, as well as changing the Constitution as a way society works. The initiative we're talking about today that came before the Parliament is going through two stages. It is the right in which we now participate where the Croatian Parliament must, on the basis of the proposal made by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, decide whether to send the collected signatures for verification. The second is, when that check is carried out, whether the constitutionality of the issues referred to in the Constitutional Court or not will be assessed. Both are opportunities to talk about both form and content. It's about content first. The People's Initiative decides to remind me of one of the two techniques that poisons people. One is an open drink of a deadly potion, or a pure agent that will be injected into their veins and the other is when someone who will eventually be euthanized is poisoned on a light day by day. It's like a bowl of beautiful scented fruit salads. Two questions carry several elements with them, some of which are absolutely acceptable to any sane man. Especially at this time when we already have 28 years of experience of constitutional order that relied on the basic and that is the Christmas Constitution and then with some changes in the last 2010 and additions and upgrades. And there lies the danger that is documented among other things in the testimony of a whole series of people who have been approached or invited to the stands where the signatures were collected. Some were told what we just heard from colleagues come sign against Pupovec. Others wondered if we'd cut the number of MPs for that. The third was told whether you were to introduce more democracy and to be able to vote people electronically and by letter already according to who the target group was. On May 26th in Sirač, the German and Austrian associations organised a national minority event where representatives of a series of national minorities, Italians, Roma, Czechs, Germans and others presented their gastronomic heritage that they had installed in the gastronomy in Croatia. The people's initiative has shown so much passion and haughtiness to come to the event with its stand. Not a word has been said to any man who has been approached about the demand for this initiative to reduce the rights of representatives of national minorities in the Assembly. They were, of course, lured by other suggestions and promises. Are you willing to live in a more democratic society? If it is, sign it. Is that why we're reducing the number of parliamentary deputies because they're parasites on our backs, if you do sign. Are you so you can vote those who can't physically go to the polls, who live abroad? When a few of us warned these people to sign among other things and to demand that the right to vote be abolished, national minority MPs in the Croatian Parliament of the two most important things in the country on which Parliament decides at all. People went to protest why they cheated on them, but then it was too late. On June 20th, our colleague, Branimir Glavas, was publicly on the N1 television show that seven days after the deadline for the signing was up to him by initiative activists, offered him the opportunity to sign this initiative. He made that public on television. ... So there's a whole series of examples that talk about being manipulated, people who are... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, I'm not calling anyone. I'll keep you posted. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So there's a whole series of indications that it was manipulated to talk to people who were supposed to sign. Finally, there are people in every society who require the implementation of radical measures against other members of society. But every democratic and civilised society defines what these are issues on which there is no reduction of rights. What does it mean to reduce the right of one of the parliamentary deputies, not to vote on the government's trust and not to vote on budgeting? Will the criteria tomorrow be that all MPs from Dalmatia are also depressed and that others can vote in favour of the government but they cannot vote in favour of the government? Will it be said tomorrow that representatives from some parties will be denied the possibility? It's only a first step, if the first step is to take national minority representatives' right to vote on such two important things, the second might be to take away their right to any vote and those who sent them here. Because if they send them without the right to vote, then they don't have any votes either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90126	The club ends, they split the debate. It's all right, I saw everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90127	Thank you very much. Here's what you do when you're in a liberal party and when two speakers have four unusual last names then the second with two unusual last names remain three minutes, but I'll be clear enough and loud enough to say what I should have said. And that is, there is a Chinese curse that says, “God gave you to live in interesting times. ” So I would say, “I gave you God to be a parliamentary representative at the moment that we are discussing this where we may have come in the fact that it is the presidency's proposal to ban our cell phones in the assembly because we are turning the assembly into something where we haven’t earned even 1.7 that our citizens evaluate us to about 1.5. And a few sentences about a referendum on the Civil Initiative Truth on Istanbul. When I left the House of Commons one night through Jelačić's salary, then I was an activist, I passed by them and they signed or took signatures and I passed and said this one, this one won't sign. I say how do you think I won't sign? Well, you're the one who's in, I say I am. And why are you actually taking signatures here? He's talking about men walking in skirts. I ask how many men in Croatia have you seen walking in skirts or dresses or certain ones doing it for their work, and how many have you seen abused women? The Truth about Istanbul initiative is, in fact, an initiative that when you want to twist, you want to point to the evil one. How many abused women are there right now? And why do we choose a referendum? For that group of people, or women, children, families that are most vulnerable. We in the House have shown our voices what we think of it. I don't have a problem, and people have to think differently. Earth, countries are progressing where there is a critical mass that points to and think differently. But that's where the boundaries should be set. One of the transitional points of this House and this is that there has been a fact, a situation that we have matured to amend the Constitutional Law, that not all can be the subject of questions in the referendum and that we have reached the fact that, which number of votes is somewhere, so initiatives collected to deliver immediately. There was no reason not to deliver it, there was no reason not to. If the initiative had been and the truth of Istanbul had been and had collected a large number, they would have come running if they had not collected the number, if they had collected until the last day, until the surrender that was about 2 weeks. from the conclusion, then really be suspicious. I will not say that the truth is both, it will evaluate something else, but the truth about Istanbul means it is decided to tell in Croatia within the family each has the right to abuse their wife and child when they come to mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90128	Thank you, time. Before I give the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that is, in accordance with Article 238, i.e. Article 239, I'm giving my colleagues Furiu Radin a heads-up. You're pulling? You're pulling the same thing? And you'd be hurting the Rules of Procedure now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90129	I thank you for your warning, and my colleague Grumoja, it's my first warning in 26 years, and I really missed her, and thank you very much, beautiful Grmoja, I mean somehow I felt unfulfilled now I accept her from my heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90130	I'm sorry it was me, but what you're going to do, you didn't respect this, thank you very much, we're continuing on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90131	I must tell the Vice President that you are much more liberal than... warning by hand and hat. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you, Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. 22.08, let me try to say something that hasn't been said in these months and today all day long. We have as counterpart Radin has also said, a technical question, so a united debate, two referendum initiatives are being sent to the government to determine the number of signatures and the validity of collecting them. They both had something in common, one and the other came out, flew, collected their supporters on the wings of pulsism, and with the hidden, I can say, political ambitions. When we talk about the Convention on the Protection of Women and Violence in the Family, I haven't heard these, how many months it's been said about it and after we've adopted it, how some life has changed to worse, how his rights are worse, how he can't sleep at night, I don't know how afraid he's gonna get out on the street is he gonna see some people, imagine maybe who are protected by that convention without being women but are so declared because they feel like women. That's terrible. Who lives worse today, or worse, if we're gonna do the literature? What the hell was that all about? I see no real, real reason but that populist or ideological one with hidden but no longer hidden political ambitions. When we talk about another initiative, which absolutely has the context of political ambition to go to elections, vote-gathering, voter bases, whatever you want, because only hypocrisy in which on the wings again pulsism, and otherwise I tell you, history has shown, especially for colleagues from the Living Wall, are not here, that when the populists come to power, the only ones in the country who live better are themselves. No one else is profiting, no one else is profiting from the arrival of populists to power. And I mention them because they have a president of the Committee on Gender Equality who fine-tunes a greater coefficient, the greatest that he can be here from the MPs without being vice presidents, presidents and protects those sexes so that they are not declared to vote for the protection of women at all. Bravo. And he says then, so take me away. Great. So hypocrisy is that when we talk about the People's Initiative decides on the wave of pulsism again, those number of parliamentary representatives who go to pay fat, do nothing, sit in the chairs and care about them, live Croatian dream, every Croat's dream that he doesn't have to do anything and get paid. If we had cell phones and cars, then the dream would be complete. Let's take it from them, let's go, people. But we're going to take the minority's right to vote. What are some of these minorities going to decide what we're going to do as the majority people? Who will be our government in the budget? But at the same time diaspora, that's not it. Why? What's the legal logic? If we're reducing the number of MPs, I can still understand it from 150 to 120, so let's cut the number of minority representatives, let's just chew that up somehow. But the diaspora number remains the same. What's more, let's make him decide the number of people going out. But they can vote on the budget and they can vote on the government. Why? Because it's the political ambition of that group. Those are their voices. If they were truthful, they'd be reduced to rights. Because they have more rights to decide on government and budgets that do not live in Croatia than these people who live here. Who can explain that to me? So that's a step backwards. We in the HNS and as liberals and as a civic option are always for modern, advanced, successful Croatia, not to take a step backwards in civilization achievements. So we see the countries where they are. Well, we don't want to be there, do we? That's why I say at all they don't believe as much as they have these political ambitions. Why? Because they want to come here. So they can be you. Because as my colleague Pernar says, I have a higher salary and everything, but I care. Because like me, I'm not, I'm in, I'm sitting here, the truth and God have less income than I had before I got here, but it doesn't matter. I'm in love, and he cares, that's the only difference between me and him. And his colleague, Sincic, who is chairman of the Committee on Equal Gender, and he cares very much, but when it comes to protecting women and domestic violence, he doesn't really care. So, I mean, a lot of it's been said, chewed up, broken a spear, and we're back to the same thing again. And yet it's a theme that fills the cover and everything. Thank you. Unfortunately, we have so many subjects and so many things to do that we don't know where to start before but let's go raise the people on petty passions. Of course, you should check the number of signatures in both, especially in the referendum initiative on the Istanbul Convention or I don't know if you've got it in materials somewhere written Istanbul, and elsewhere Istanbul, I don't know if it's a tipfeller in the Assembly or if they've misnamed themselves, I'd like someone to check from the Professional Services because in these application papers and some other materials under quotes it says "m" but well less important. Because all you need to do is access these changes and say the deadline for collecting signatures is like when the mayoral candidacys are handed over or whatever else is in all the other elections, by midnight, then and then. So you collect as much as you want. And I have to, I can't mistake my soul, I know because we've all been more or less involved in the election here, and I know that after I've handed over those signatures, I've always had a few hundred dozen come to me later, with some people the rest of the papers haven't passed, but my God. The important thing is that the number is fulfilled. So there may be something later that's been collected in time, but my people aren't exactly something or you have or you don't. A few thousand signatures aren't much, but come on, the law's inconclusive and that's why it needs to be changed, but that's why it opens up the room of doubt. So I think it's absolutely necessary to change certain things that aren't. As far as the amendments to the election law are concerned, there's certain things to be changed. We are all aware of this in the end line and we have decisions that point to us and that because of the change in population is not satisfied with the representativeness of certain representatives, someone has a much larger number in the constituency and much greater norms than others. Especially with me in Slavonia and Baranja, a lot of people have gone, namely, some are more and less guided. But I can say, compared to 2001 and 2011 in Osijek-Baranja County, there are 30,000 fewer people on the regular list. In those ten years alone, that was before the accession of the European Union. I don't even want to think about what it is right now. I'm afraid to think numbers, and I can see it on the street. Here I think some things should have been said, that this is something that absolutely must never be allowed for most to decide for a minority in their rights because then most people can always abuse it. And some civilizational achievements we have to stick to, and I think that's more than once and more well said here because the very rights of minorities are the most and can be respected and leveled when they matter, they matter to you, when they're those representatives. Then we can get to that part in that part of the country when more or less as a question of women's equality is not a question when it's normal, but unfortunately we're still far from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90132	Thank you, buddy. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90133	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We were taught in schools that democracy is a form. But respected colleagues and colleagues, form devoid of content is nothing. And that's why I can't, and I don't want to just talk about form in today's debate. I'm going to talk about content, and it's interesting that the content of these referendum initiatives is similar, I'd say almost the same. Because these two referendum initiatives, the people also decide the truth about Istanbul, differ only in one detail. The People's Referendum Initiative decides to discriminate on minorities and those national ones, and the referendum initiative Truth on Istanbul wants to discriminate on the majority of society and women. And precisely because the content of such initiatives is importantly discriminatory, we cannot support them in the SDP. Today we're really going to talk about the procedure, we're going to discuss the procedure, we can't avoid it. In a few days, we will talk about it and vote, and I am convinced that by voting, we will send these two referendum initiatives to the government for verification of credibility and the number of signatures. But the result of that check won't change our attitude. And the point is that when the time comes, if it is established that there is indeed a necessary number of signatures and that they are properly collected in the manner prescribed by the Law, we will ask that these referendum initiatives be shown by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. For what? It is simply because for us initiatives that deny women the right to protection from violence, and part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia deny full representation in the highest political body of the Republic of Croatia, only because they are guilty of nationality are not and cannot be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. No, they're not. Because someone who lives in the Republic of Croatia, who works, earns, pays taxes, plays for the Croatian football team just because he is guilty of nationality, we must not deny the right for his representatives in the Croatian Parliament or for him to decide on such important matters as trust of the Government or the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. On the contrary, it's discrimination. As a result, the SDP Club supports these conclusions, and if it is established that a sufficient number of signatures have been collected, in which at least in part of the initiative I personally doubt, we will ask that the Croatian Parliament address the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of these referendum initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90134	Thank you. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the MPs' club. We continue with individual debates. The first individual debate is a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90135	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. First of all, I'm going to point out that I feel extremely guilty about this point. We are discussing these two together late in the evening, and I believe that since it is extremely important points for Croatian society, where Croatian society is extremely sensitive and interested in these points, this should have been in the morning. It could've been done in the morning. Vice President, you could have done it, I don't know why you didn't, and I'm sorry that HDZ purposely put these points in this period just because the public doesn't hear or see what's being said here. And I feel bad about what is happening here, using business opportunities not to inform the public about the debates in the Croatian Parliament. And that's bad, and that's not good. But here I'm going to look back at the whole series, I'm going to tell the open lies I hear here from this meaning, from this pay phone or this house high. Here, I'll take this last one. A colleague named Grbin said that members of the national minorities are deprived of the right to vote for the budget or for the Government if this referendum initiative passes. It's about the people's referendum initiative to decide. Well, that's a lie, so that's a lie. Any representative of any national minority can be elected to the Croatian Parliament and will always be on the list of any political party and will always have the right to vote both for the budget and trust of the Government. It's about special rights that don't have a majority people, which don't have any other minorities. A colleague of the Richembergh who left was talking about the Dalmatians. Why not also put the Dalmatians or Slavons on special lists? I asked the question earlier whether this might be the way to have soon-to-be birth minorities who will be elected on special lists to have them in the quota, to be represented in the right way. Maybe it's the right way. I listened to my colleague, Radin, when he was doing the show downstairs, and when he was neither guilty nor obliged, I must say, from my point of view, he was expelled from the Parliament. I understand that you have one respect for your colleague Radin because of your years and experience, but my colleague Pernar was not guilty, but he who performed the show after the pay phone, which is very nice. So he says, says counterpart Grbin, Richembergh, I don't really know who doesn't, and Curaj, everyone's talking about knowing about the irregularities in the signing. So Glavas says he knows the person who asked for his signatures seven days after the referendum ended. So why didn't he talk to the Department of Management? Why didn't he report it, why didn't inspection come, so we knew who it was. It's always about me. We never know who it's about. Always some N.N. He said something to someone and always doubted, always doubted. Oh, my people, here, I'll tell you the truth now. Well, a little while ago, my colleague Curray said even one truth was told. Well, when he was campaigning for his signatures, so the signatures came late, that's right, that's what you said, I agree. So here and here. Of course, if you collect 400,000 signatures or something less or more, that these signatures are everywhere. Well, here it is, like it or not, there are still signatures on the ground. Unfortunately, it is not collected because there is simply no such organization that can collect it properly. But I have another lie to tell here. A fellow coat of arms to my remark, the replica that, instead of telling the Committee's position on what we're discussing today, you gave your interpretation, and that's not right. You started reading the logs and then you called me that I didn't look into the agenda. Comrade Grbin, you have no right to interpret and extract statements of the record and read them here. You're not given that right, and you can't take it. You had two brief conclusions regarding the "Truth on Istanbul" initiative and the "People decide" initiative, and that's where the story stops. If you already had a need to read the record which is not a practice then read the entire record. You have stated, many have cited a whole series of examples of how the signatures were collected in one way incorrect and that is not right. I'll say openly, if someone lied to the man who came to sign and told him something that didn't stand, which isn't a referendum question it's not right, it's really wrong and if there were such cases here it's wrong for me that there were them. But there weren't many. It happened some time. And you've criticized well, but none of you have criticized, for example. Mr. Obersnell who banned the signature collection. Not only Mr. Obersnel, we have a whole range of other cities. We got Sisak. We've got the town. In Senj, only one day is allowed to collect signatures, only one day. And none of you dozen who spoke pointed out that problem. I'm sorry here that here we have it actually a style, except for a fellow Downworlder who spoke in his own way as a lawyer. All others regardless of the political option are I see against the referendum, against the will of the citizens, so 400,000 people times 3 because not everyone signed three times are called "marginals". 400 thousand minimum, and probably half a million, and perhaps more “marginals” we have in the Republic of Croatia. It's a great thing. But there's one more thing I have to point out here. I've already replicated Mr. Pupovac when he said that. I'll do it this time. He is extremely sorry that the areas in which they live, his national minority lives are underdeveloped. I've already answered you and I'll say it again. The reason for this is simple, unfortunately a national minority, which is the Serbian national minority you belong to in 91st year, rose to an armed rebellion against your country of Croatia. And this is what you as a member of that minority who was not with them must every day point out here and apologize to their country of Croatia on behalf of their people because they wanted to destroy it, because they threw grenades at Croatian cities because they burned and burned. And then when we listen today in your one pathetic way of talking about the poor status of the Serb national minority, I find you really wrong and sorry. So then I remember that my house was also hit with a grenade, a rocket, specifically, and that 16 thousand Croatian citizens were killed by this Serbian rebellion and it was forgotten. Well, Mr. Pupovac's history didn't begin in 7 or 8.8.95 when the tractors came to Belgrade. It's not. She started for a bloody Easter if we're going to talk about history or in Bor's village in May and we can't forget 5 years of armed rebellion. But I'll repeat what's very important. So here we go back a little bit, everybody started talking about the metrics. So some ask what's the issue here, specifically with the Istanbul Convention? Well, it is, gender ideology. If anyone asks me where birth ideology is. So look at the interpretative statement that our Prime Minister Plenkovic made with experts saying, "We consider that the Istanbul Convention does not contain the obligation to introduce gender ideology into Croatian laws." And colleague Radin, so ask your countrymen Tajania of the President of the European Parliament why he did not vote in particular in the European Parliament for the Istanbul Convention as well as a third of the European parliamentarians. Because of what Prime Minister Plenkovic said, we believe it does not contain the obligation to introduce gender ideology into Croatian laws. So he's got it. Well, the president of the SDP Bernardic, too, is a little bit sad for him, on Grbin's happiness, and he saw and he said he did, but he has no problem with it. Of course, we will not have men walking in our skirts tomorrow, nor will women lift weights of 100 kilos, but gender ideology is something that is contrary to that valuable system that we inherit from our ancestors and that guarantees us prosperity. So that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90136	We have three replicas on your exhibit. He's the first of his colleagues, Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90137	I was going to ask, say something else, but I'll only have one question. Comrade Zekanovic, please tell us but definitively and make it kind of understandable what birth ideology is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90138	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90139	My colleague Radin, please, I'll ask you this time because I've talked about it 100 times, call nice, contact, send a letter, buy a stamp, I'll pay you a stamp, send a letter to your friend, acquaintance Tajania, and ask him why he didn't vote for the Istanbul Convention and then tell him he was wrong, there's no birth ideologies there. That's my advice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90140	Thank you. Mr. Radin later you have an individual hearing, please. Replica is a colleague of the Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90141	Mr. Lawovic, if you think that collective guilt should be introduced in this country for people, for old people, for children who were born after 95. If you think that because of those who led the armed rebellion, the Croats who came from Bosnia and Herzegovina or the returnees of the Croats who returned after the persecution should be saved, and everyone suffers because of the fact that these areas are underdeveloped. Hungarians suffer in Baranja, suffer Roma in Baranja, suffer Czechs and Slovaks in western Slavonia. The suffering of Serbs who were never covered by the war in Gorski Kotar, I'm telling you about it, and if you're going to talk about where history started, it would take us a long way to go. And too smart who know what I history is and are certain of what history is too around us. Don't be one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90142	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90143	My colleague Pupovac, if we were to go back to history, we could actually go to Punisha Račić and Gabriel Principe and who knows what we're not up to, so we won't do it. And I never said there was a collective guilt. I personally have friends and godmothers of Orthodox people, Serbs who were in the Croatian Army and wounded for the Croatian homeland, Croatian defenders and Croatian volunteers, and this is not controversial. But we can't ignore what I said. And you do not ignore when we talk about national minorities, that someone wants to deny national minorities the right that will forever be granted to them, which is that in any political party they will be elected to the Croatian Parliament. The registers are suffered by Hungarians, Slovaks, Czechs and Croats. Until today, I didn't know that our goalie Subasic is a Orthodox by his father and I don't have a problem with that, and I guess nobody here or has or should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90144	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. My colleague Željko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90145	Comrade Zekanovic, you are a blind passenger who smuggled himself on the HDZ list into this Assembly and would never enter the Parliament. And tell me how many preferential votes you've received. Yes, you belong to a marginal ultraconservative group that claims on human rights, to the rights of a national minority, to protect women from violence. It is an ultraconservative marginal group that embarrasses Croatian society. And as far as I'm concerned, I'd like it to be this referendum that once and for all, this silent majority of civil Croatia shows an ultra-conservative marginal group like you are where they belong. Stop attacking and insulting national minorities and protecting women's rights in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90146	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90147	I was supposed to raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm going to replicate. My colleague Jovanovic, you are a marginal group, so the Yugoslav marginal group in Croatia, thank God, there are few of you left and you will not be at all. I am also very glad that Yugoslavia will not be in Croatia soon. So I'm extremely glad, I'm very glad. As for my election to the Croatian Parliament. I've been elected member of the HRAST party, and I'm not ashamed of it on the HDZ list either. Yes, and my father founded this HDZ, the unfortunate one, which I hope will one day experience catharsis. But I will deal with politics and outside of HDZ and you outside of the SDP would be worth zero. And then when you get kicked out of the party, your political career is over. And as for the preferential votes, if I had the camera lights like you had, I'd have a million, I had 2,000, with no camera lights as one local activist in my town of Sibenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90148	Thank you. Replication time is over. A colleague, Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90149	So Article 238 of demeaning and insulting, and on a national basis, so something for which a coward who escaped to a new country is sentenced to prison, is what you have now done. Otherwise, I am not Yugoslav, I am Serbian and I am proud of my Serbian background and Croatian homeland and you are one fool.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90150	A colleague like this, let's go like this, oat, like this, like this, slowly. You didn't get the word. [[Upadica Zekanovic: Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.]] So first of all, first of all, I'm going to give Mr. Jovanovic a warning, that's under number one, and number two, and I'm going to give you a warning, and that's how we end this part. Thank you very much. Here's Nikola Grmoja individually. Well, I gave my colleague a reminder, just like you. [[Wait, wait, I don't have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure?]] Article 238, here's the explanation, you can, [[/Intruder Zekanovic: Why me? Why are you a warning to me, just explain to me why?]] It's okay, thank you. [[Intruder Zekanovic: What did I say?]] I'm sorry. I've given you a reminder, and I've given him a warning. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: Well, you can't talk like that. I mean, he insults like the last peasant.]] Take it easy, take it easy, please. Take it easy. [[Invadica Zekanovic: What are the Yugoslavs?]] Here you go, Mr. Grmoy. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90151	At the very beginning of this debate, I asked my fellow MPs to stay within what is the topic, to bring down tensions, but right away a colleague of Grbin, a colleague of Jovanovic, then there was a fellow Zekanovic, so immediately the story of the marginals began, the story and Prime Minister Plenkovic to the people who signed the referendum and these are bad messages and it is not good at all. And what's also bad, and I initially asked you not to discuss this important topic so late in the evening. Now I got a chance to speak at 10.40. I think that Croatian citizens are interested in this topic, that we should have discussed this topic in one normal term, but unfortunately there was no hearing, it was obviously such an agreement between HDZ and SDP, the topic of change of the electoral system is an important topic. He spoke here to his colleague Curaj about that it is safe to go to certain changes, that even the rulings have nothing against it, but we have the fact that for more than a year in the parliamentary procedure we have the changes proposed by MOST that require three preferential votes, but here it is not even put to this debate in the Croatian Parliament, let alone to vote. So it shows the will of the ruling for any changes to the electoral system. They have set themselves up the electoral system of the political elite as it suits them. And then when they get the answer means by the people, then they wonder why it happened. If you'd changed the electoral system, if you'd made a fair electoral system, then there'd probably be no such answer. But you don't want to do anything about it, or SDP or HDZ, and then when the referendum happens, they're surprised. And then they call it pulsism. Are three preferential voices the same pulsism? I am reading Prime Minister Plenkovic's interview, a journalist is now asking him these announcements made by Minister Kuscevic, of the 3 preferential votes that this is one drop in populistism. And Professor Podolnjak, I think, wrote as many countries in Europe, remember that he mentioned Iceland, for example, that he mentioned some other European countries that also have 3 preferential votes, and now in Croatia it is suddenly populist. Why? Because that doesn't suit party bosses because then they can't make a sheet at will, then they're much harder both these coalitions and these political parties like the CNS who would never see the Parliament if there were no pre-election coalitions and of course they would attack and declare it a populism. Changes in the electoral system are necessary, they are a prerequisite for all changes in Croatian society. He spoke to his colleague Curaj about it as if it were a perception that we Parliamentarians here have a fat salary, that it is a Croatian dream to come here to the Croatian Parliament, isn't it? As many of us are now here in the assembly, here is one HDZ colleague, the four of us from MOST, the two representatives of national minorities, counterpart Zekanovic and colleague Jovanovic. Which one of us, or who of the MPs here, has earned his salary today? I've been here all day, I've been at all points, I've tried to take part in the debate, sit down if I can't participate in the debate, then listen to what my colleagues are saying, we're too much. Croatia has no need for this number of MPs, so there are too many of us. Secondly, it is quite clear that the electoral units that we have are not suitable, that each vote is not worth the same, means that we have the same inequality, that it is necessary to also regulate, that it is necessary to regulate the choice of representatives in the Croatian Parliament itself, there are some recommendations about the issue of minorities, whether it is a blow to human rights as you claim or not because here, a colleague of the coat of arms has come all the time about human rights. So then the question arises what about other MPs who are not national minorities? After all, the national minority can also be selected on the general list. These are all the questions that are being opened and I am reviewing every attitude here that has been expressed and there is no need for any insults that could be heard here by my colleague Jovanovic about the marginals, and also to attack anyone, there is no reason to do so. This is an opportunity for a reasoned debate, what's wrong, is that it's now 10.42 and that people were mostly watching a very interesting and exciting SP game where Belgium turned, so it lost 2:0, eventually won in '94. minutes, so this is an important question. Changes to the electoral system are an important issue. ... No, it's not Japan, it's Belgium, Belgium has won 3:2, it's lost 2:0. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So here, I don't know what to say, except that we don't have to ignore the fact that one large number of our citizens said they wanted to change the electoral system. We do not have to agree with everything that stands in that referendum, in this referendum initiative, but the fact that it is necessary to talk about it is that the ruling does not want to talk about it at all. This shows the fact that more than a year of MOST's draft law on 3 preferential votes in the parliamentary procedure and now that 400,000 signatures have been collected, the minister remembered that he would introduce 3 preferential votes but not as the initiative suggests means no threshold but with a threshold. ... Yeah, well, that's exactly how he's been in the parliamentary procedure, but it hasn't been on the agenda in over a year. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] This shows the will of political elites who have taken positions and which are practically not managed by Croatia but rule exclusively for their own interests, particular interests and not in the interests of the people. And that's what needs to be changed, we need to change the electoral system, we don't know what they're going to do and stop the court, and what's going to happen with this signature count, which is going to happen here, what are the intentions of ruling around these referendums, they're likely to stop in some way, stop, but these changes that have started and that citizens are calling and that we've started here several years ago here in this Croatian Assembly are unconstitutional. You can do what I don't know, but you won't stop that people's desire to change the electoral system. These changes will be either like this or like that but they will happen inevitably. After all, they'll make you change the people. Just as he has forced one preferential vote to be put in place, we already have 3 preferential votes but that would not have been the case if it hadn't been for these referendum initiatives. And then we don't have to and it's not good that we characterize these initiatives and prioritize them as something bad and negative because it will lead to certain shifts. I think three preferential voices and one good shift. So let's see how much who's worth, how much who, we go out and we get to the Croatian voters, let's see how hard someone is, how many preferential votes they can get, and not that, depending on whether they're at the mercy or the mercy of the party chief, they get into the Croatian Parliament here. So let's take it to the voters, go to the voters and see how much we do here in the Croatian Parliament is actually worth. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90152	Thank you. Three replicas. You're giving up? Then we have two replicas. The first is a colleague of the Sladorov Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that you have returned the debate to the essence of the matter, and in fact this referendum has made the political elite naked and in fact this referendum has been directed against the political elite that has actually brought Croatia to the edge of poverty and I believe that the signatures would be much more, people who have left because they are the most dissatisfied with political elites, which is over 200, 300 thousand citizens to sign the referendum as well. But what I want to point out on my example, that with me when I published the question to the DORH, why Zdravko Mamić did not give the precautions I received – is precisely because of you as you need to change the Election Law so that you do not enter the Assembly again. And I don't mind if those people who are against me aren't happy with my political work sign to change the electoral law so I don't enter the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90154	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90155	In general, I am not in a position to change the electoral system by being a representative or a group or someone who is currently a representative of a particular group, to answer or does not respond. I don't think that's a good way to go to a wider public debate. However, we see that there is no will for any changes to the electoral system and we see that this debate is put here now that we are discussing it at 11 o'clock in the evening. This shows what a desire means for political elites to change the electoral system at all. But I can't have these changes being made the way you presented it, whether you're answering someone or not. And whether or not a representative of a particular group is responding to someone or not. I think it's wrong and it's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90156	Thank you. And fellow Pupovac, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First a respected colleague of the Grmoy, and you as a number of people who are in higher positions than you are in executive power are talking about political elites. And being in this House means belonging to the political elites. Pretending you don't belong to the political elites, that should be done in a different way. Your party was part of the order, part of the political elite, on two occasions. At the local level and at different levels. So I'd be careful with those things. As far as we're concerned, we're too small or too small. I think there's too many of us. Maybe there are those who do a smarter job at home preparing for the Parliament than we do here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90158	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90159	Dear fellow Pupovac, I thank you for your suggestion that we practically, I can't talk about political elites because we were part of the ruling majority. But that's why I don't feel political elite because we wanted so much change that we're not in every government we've been in for more than five months. That shows the difference between us and these political elites that I'm talking about. They couldn't stand us for five months in either government. It's precisely because we insist on change, and it's precisely because you mentioned that we were five months in two governments exactly the best argument that we didn't belong to those political elites that I've been talking about all along. And as for the fact that some colleagues are doing a smarter job. Well, I don't believe I think they watched the game and most of them are sleeping at home now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90160	Thank you very much. We continue with individual debates. We have two more individual discussions. Now it's time for my colleague, Robert the Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow me in this individual debate to speak, in fact, from the point of view of the person who took part in the professional aspect of, say, professional assistance in defining the normative text, and the arguments that referred to a part of these referendum initiatives that are currently in question, primarily regarding the first question of the People's Initiative, which concerns the reform of the electoral system. And as counterpart Grmoja said, it is indeed the intention of this initiative to democratically democratisation the electoral system, to strengthen the role of voters in the election for MPs, to rationalise our system, unfortunately in which we now see very few MPs in this Croatian Assembly. And we really do not see any reason why the number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament should not be reduced properly, therefore, from those 150 to a maximum of 120. Since you have been in the Croatian Parliament for many years and you know for yourself that in the mid-90s, the Croatian Parliament numbered 127 MPs, from the 95th to the end of the 99th to those elections on January 3, 2000, when the number of MPs was increased. So the Parliament could function with 127 MPs. Why would that be a problem, and why would the civil initiative now be accused of some kind of populism and something like that? There's no reason. Other views of preferential votes, election units' arrangements, the ability to vote by letter, electronically, in a situation where nearly half of the citizens do not vote, when citizens are not motivated to go to the polls at all. Believe me, wherever I took part in the election observation, in different states, citizens come to the polling post with a document that is their job, with a call sent to them by a competent electoral commission that tells them, the elections, your polling post is here and there, come. And now they have a high response, wherever you actually come. We're on 50% response, which is extremely small. And let me be deeply convinced that what is proposed is in the best interest of the citizens and that they will... their role in the election process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the second issue concerning the rights of representatives of national minorities whose issue wants to restrict the right to participate in a decision on government trust and budgetary decision, allow me several constitutional and legal arguments because they are actually only relevant. Equality is one of the fundamental constitutional values and equal voting law is a derivative precisely on the principle of equality. Let me now concretely state some figures, not abstractally, not some imaginary situations that citizens would not understand, but something that is really factual. So, the 2016 election report. When we talk about the rights of members of national minorities, let me just talk about it. Members of the national minorities in the Republic of Croatia in the last parliamentary elections when we elected Parliament in 2016 voted about 120 thousand representatives of national minorities. Of that, around 38 thousand members of national minorities voted for representatives of national minorities in this special constituency. More than 82 thousand voted in favour, it chose to vote for general candidate lists in general election units, as well as other citizens, non-national minority citizens. So only about 31% of national minorities voted for 8 MPs sitting in the Croatian Parliament. They were almost 70% voted in the same way as all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia for the general lists of candidates. So we're talking about members of national minorities. The first relevant fact is that the vast majority of them do not vote for 8 minority MPs but, like all other citizens, vote in the general election units. In 2015, that number was even higher. There was more response and more than 100,000 voters voted in the general election units. It's the first relevant fact. And now we come to the election, let's take one individual representative, so let's not let my colleague Radin object if I take his choice as a representative of the national minority as an example. So you're elected representative, representative of the Italian national minority. In the last elections, 8844 Italian nationalities were voted by members of the national minority. Of that, 2338 voted in favour of the national minority, of which you received 1676. All 26% of the Italian national minorities who voted, they voted in favour of a special constituency. They, watch out, voted like all other citizens in the general election units. Over six and a half thousand of them. So, they did not vote on a special representative who was being legitimateized as their representative, 6 and a half thousand of them, as did all the other voters of the Republic of Croatia in the general election units. Now what is the problem that exists at the constitutional and legal level? These 1676 voters who voted for you were elected by one MP to the Croatian Parliament. These 6 and a half thousand were also members of the Italian national minority who could not choose half of the MPs with their votes because one MP in the general election units needed around 12700 votes. So almost twice the number of Italian national minorities who voted in the general election units. Imagine the situation that they all voted for one candidate list. Some of the parties, any of them in any election unit. With all their votes, they would contribute to the election of half the MPs, and these 1600 and something with their votes has chosen one MP who has full rights in this Croatian Parliament. You know what the difference is? The difference is that members of the Italian national minority, therefore also persons of the same nationality as you and those who voted for you, who voted for the general candidate lists, so for all parties who are there or independent lists have 8 times less voting power. Their vote is worth 8x less than the vote of a member of the Italian national minority who voted for you as a representative. It's a constitutional legal fact. So I'm not talking about the majority people at all, I'm not talking about the citizens of Croatian nationality, I'm only talking about members of the Italian national minority. Those who voted in the general election units, those 6.5 thousand, they actually lost because they can choose only half of the MPs by their numbers and those 1600 and something is chosen by one national minority representative. And don't tell me those members of the national minorities are cut off. Where representatives of the national minority would be denied the right to decide on the budget and on the composition of the government. Because the vast majority of members of the national minority do not vote in the special constituency but vote in the general election units. It's a constitutional legal argument on... /Intruder Doncic: Thank you./ [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90162	We have three replicas. The first one's a colleague of Pupovci's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90163	Dear colleague Podolnjak, first of all, as regards the need for amendments to the Election Law that you have spoken about and another number of your colleagues from the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists of Most, I will agree with you on the fact that and the things that we need to change but not at the referendum. The referendum is not an instrument for this kind of debate especially in the way it was led, which we were talking about. And I suppose you'll agree with that. It's not a petition. It was a serious campaign that had one goal and very negative, with negative consequences. And as for the need to discuss it, absolutely yes. About election units, about the number of voters, about preference or non-preference, totally yes. As regards the reduction of the number of deputies that were carried out after the suspension.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90164	Thank you, thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90165	I'm sorry, bud, I'm a big part of what you said, unfortunately I couldn't hear. I thought you said that such issues of electoral legislation should not be resolved by a referendum, if I understood you correctly. However, what possibility remains for the citizens if the Croatian Parliament as a representative body of citizens has done nothing all these years to actually solve those problems of electoral legislation that was to be addressed from the preferential vote, from the organisation of election units. So this Croatian Parliament did not even listen to the Constitutional Court and order of the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, I've been here two years, you've been here a little longer, and you've testified that 8.5 years the Croatian Parliament hasn't settled the election units' issues, now everyone's talking about it. So what kind of trust can citizens have if the Parliament hasn't solved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90166	Replica No. 2, thank you. Replica number two of my colleagues, Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For us, the votes of few MPs, few members of our minority, and the reason is very simple because after the Second World Work, we have been expelled by about 300 thousand people. And also between the two censuses, there were also 380 thousand fewer Serbs and now listen to what I have to say to you, Mr. Podlonjak. Perhaps there would be one more Serb if you hadn't changed your nationality and explained it in the Varazdin newspaper by keeping your family safe from the Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90168	Two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, my first colleague, Mr. Grmoy, sorry, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90169	This is a shameful statement by a national minority representative, this is a disgrace to the Croatian Parliament. Zoran Milanovic, who made a disgrace to Prof. The bottom man can't do this, what you've done now, this, but what you've done because it's touched in your position and in your voices is the biggest shame I've heard here in the Croatian Parliament. This requires that you, meaning not to take away your word but to throw you out, Pernar has been expelled from the assembly and what you've done this is such a shame. And you brought along the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90170	Take it easy. You've gone a little too far, which is what it is. [[This is such a shame and shame on you, be ashamed of this. And you're talking about national minorities and protecting national minorities, you're ashamed, you're ashamed.]] Wait a minute. [[Who's gone too far? Who's gone too far? Who's gone too far?]] First and first of all, my colleague Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90171	I'm asking you, who's gone too far? Who's gone too far? Who's gone too far? I've been here all night arguing normally without any insult. Who's gone too far?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90172	Okay, we're not going to, like this, now, slowly, slowly. So, fellow Furio Radin, so you have a reminder with taking away words, slowly, you also have a reminder with taking away words because in principle you started arguing with me. Who else raised his word? No one. So you all have a reminder with a taking away word. These reminders by taking away the words and colleagues of Grmo and fellow Furio Radin. Thank you. ... Please, please, please, we're done with this. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you. ... Slowly, after my colleague Furio lost his word, so now we're going on, slowly, so we're going on with a colleague of the coat of arms who's entitled to one more. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Insect: Speaker not enabled does not understand/... [[You can't hear the intruder. What? .../]] We've solved the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Excuse me. Replication response. Here, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90173	I'm sorry that the debate came down to what it came down to. I am deeply affected by what you have said and by what you have spoken. But Mr. Radin, I was talking about the fact, so the 2016 election report in which I only said that members of your national minority voted for the general candidate lists. It doesn't matter how many there are, how many of them are currently in Croatia, but that it chooses to vote for the general lists of candidates is completely irrelevant whether there are 5 thousand, 10, 20 or 80 of them. It does not matter how many of them are left in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, but rather not to vote for their representative as you say national minorities, but to vote as all other citizens for the general lists of candidates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90174	Thank you. Time. The last replica of my colleague, Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90175	Dear fellow Podolnjak 98% of the 3rd electoral unit did not round your name and name in the 2016 elections, 98%. Do you know what 98% is? Do you know what 98% is? This marked 49 out of 50 voters did not round your name and name. I hereby deny you the right to speak on behalf of the voter of Croatian nationality or your dictionary, I have received three and a half times the votes of the preferential voters in my election unit. I'm asking in exactly the same way as you to get a three-and-a-half vote from you. They're a respected colleague of the Dolnik argument that you used in your debate. And like these arguments that I've just made stupid, they're exactly the same as yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90176	The answer to the replica please choose your colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90177	A fellow coat of arms is your right to say that your arguments are stupid and that is aspolutely correct. My parents aren't stupid and I'll never admit they're my stupid ones. It's your problem to admit it. I'm sorry you admit it yourself. But you compared pears and apples, elected representatives into two very different electoral systems that have no touch points. The system of relative majority or the system of proportional representation with one preferential voice, completely incomparable and you know that it is completely incomparable, in the end and in the doctoral study you are entitled to and you know it and then you finally admit that you have said stupidity here in the Croatian Parliament and will be remembered that you yourself have admitted after your one minute that you have said stupidity. And I don't think any more MPs have said that he said stupid things. And you're still complaining about it, I think.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90178	Thank you. The debate and replica ended at the presentation of Mr. Podlonjak. Now final on behalf of the Representatives' Club is first colleague Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90179	I thank the chairman. Today, the point of debate was to send the signatures for the referenda for a check at the Ministry of Administration, which is the usual practice. Which is a common practice and there should be no debate at all. [[Mr. Grmoya, please.]] But I have to look back at the whole debate about this point. I listened to her very carefully. Unfortunately, it has been used for the personal defenses of individual parliamentary representatives to defend their positions and their conduct. I can't believe what I heard today during this debate. I can't believe Parliamentarians talk about themselves like this to poor politicians who've gotten on their teeth to ordinary citizens. I can't believe it. I don't know how you can expect a different reaction from people. I'll turn it around like this. How can you expect a different reaction from people when they see all the shameless political trade for the last 20 years? I'll only take your last year. I'll take your May and June last year. What can you expect from people? What kind of reaction do you want from people? What can you expect when you see how many citizens fight to survive from month to month, and they see absolutely no empathy on your part, but only your benefits that you use for yourself instead of them, and they give you the confidence to fight for them? What can you expect? I'll take an example. A few months ago, you were moaning here when I mentioned the annual vacations of parliamentary deputies mentioned them in a completely different context. He mentioned them in the context of shutting down the asphyxiation of freedom of speech by changing the Rules of Procedure, you yawned. So much for your empathy for people who don't have the opportunities you have. And I'll give you a brief cut of your action, so you can understand the reason for the referendum. I do not believe that Croatia is a racist state. It just shows a revolution, but shows you a revolution because for the past 20 years, you've been fighting ideological wars, you've been burning masses, you've been running policies for 20 years that have led to people leaving Croatia, that Croatia has been economically devastated, that you've brought the education sector into a stalemate position and that we'll never implement educational reform, that public administration is never bigger, never more globular, never more effective. As a consequence, all of these procedures have led you to an election referendum and you should be aware of that. Citizens are only and I will say this through a civilized approach through signatures to show what they think of the policy that has been going on in Croatia for 20 years and as far as I know, many... who have debated here tonight, so they've been making that political elite for many years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't run away from personal responsibility for what you've been waiting for and you're not miserable, it's those who, because of the way it's been run in Croatia politics all these years, have to watch if they'll have a ticket and leave Croatia, you're miserable. I don't want to hear insults that some are willing to say at the expense of others just because they've moved into their positions here in the Parliament. And that's true, you can laugh all you want, but that's not right. We didn't come here to guard our positions and there's no need to change the election law because it suits a politician. No, we need to change the electoral law so that he can be as he wants to be a citizen rather than a politician's will. And if you'd allowed the election law to be amended in a normal way, you wouldn't have gotten a referendum. If you had led a policy aimed at the benefit of citizens, you would never have experienced such a referendum that requires an amendment to the electoral law, to change the way politicians behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90180	Thank you, thank you, fellow Petrov, time. And finally on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club colleague Milorad Pupovac, please. Mr. Grmoya, Mr. Grmoya, pursuant to Article 241 241. I'm moving you away from the session. [[I just want the whole public to know that this is pure fascism. What Furio Radin performed was pure fascism in the Croatian Parliament.]] I'm detaching you from my colleagues' session, please leave the assembly. Please leave the assembly room. ... Please leave the assembly, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me, fellow Pupovac. 23.16h Ouch, ow, ow, here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90181	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues because there is no colleague. So, when someone enters politics like some colleagues entered a few years ago to fight those who are in the chairs, and then they share with them these same chairs for years and then they repeat rhetoric, just get up to your colleague Petrov, because this really applies to you, and then they share these chairs with them and then they have a moral face to talk about who keeps their chairs. So I've already said that bad policy is just worse bad anti-political, that than dangerous politics is a worse dangerous anti-political. You started with a story about reforms and you reduced the reforms to changing subscriptions for Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. And you deceived people with a story about reforms, raising high hopes and high expectations of which there was nothing. You destroyed your own government and tried to preserve something that wasn't government and now you're accusing representatives of national minorities that they were the ones who were amoral. You left, didn't wait for me to tell you something you should have heard, but I'll tell you. It was not necessary to hear the first voice of those who organised this referendum because you were the one who invited my colleague, the current head of the SDSS club, past the knowledge and president of the party, past the knowledge and me as the man who won the most votes in that party to tell him don't participate in the talks on the formation of the majority, wait for us to do so. With what right? With the right to make us less valuable? That our voices are less valuable? With the right to segregate one representative in this House? You know how much I care about the chair? I care that people like you cannot select who will participate and who will not participate in the formation of the majority. As for the issues raised by colleagues Podolnjak, all the meaning of the model that we have minority mandates in the Croatian Parliament, the models they have in Slovenia or models they have in Serbia, just to mention our neighborhood or in Montenegro is in a positive action or in positive discrimination. So in that those who are less for these or those historical reasons, for these or those numerical reasons, they are as equal as their fellow citizens who make up an ethnic or national majority. That's the point. As a constitutional lawyer, you forget this important constitutional fact of the Croatian Constitution, Croatian Constitutional Law and Croatian political practice. And you dare as a university professor to teach us a lesson here that you know well that we know it as well as you do. But you think demagogy can pass. Because what we heard all night was demagogy, a demagogy aimed at selling people a deadline for candlelight. And you do it all the time. And that's why some of them are leaving you, and that's why some of your colleagues over your face are texting you in other ways. With this policy, you can't do what you promise people. Only if you don't take off your masks and join in and come back from where you started and that's Mrs. Markic. If that's it,...... If that's the direction and it's the direction, happy way to do it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90182	Thank you, Mr. Pupovac, he was also the final speaker on behalf of the MP club. This concludes the discussion of two reports, one is the report on the request to call a state referendum on the citizens' initiative "Truth on Istanbul" and the other is on the citizens' initiative "People decide" on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm sorry that there's one point that's actually nothing technical but it actually technically ended up the way it ended, but, well, I'm sorry if I hurt someone, but that's how it is in life. We continue tomorrow at 9.30 with the bill on write-off of debts to natural persons with the final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 369. Thank you. The session was interrupted at 23.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-02-0.u90183	The report on the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative shall decide on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 72a and the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative shall decide on the amendment of Article 72. The Constitution of the Supporter of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The debate is closed. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the following conclusions: 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the voter's signature from the application for the call for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative of the people to decide on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 72a, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative by the National Act under the number of Classes: 014-01/18-02/02, Urbro: 361-18-02 of 13 June 2018, and that the report on the verification carried out was submitted to the Croatian Assembly. Also, the government of the Republic of Croatia is urged to check whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with the provisions of Article. 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local and regional self-government. I 2.- Based on Article 2. 12th, 2nd, 2nd, 2nd, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st, 12th, 12th. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative. 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which was sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative, decides by act number of Classes: 014-01/18-02/02, Urbro: 361-18-03 since 13 June 2018, and that the report on the verification carried out should be submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Also, the government of the Republic of Croatia is urged to check whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with the provisions of Article. 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authorities and local and regional self-government. I am voting on the first proposal for a conclusion. Please, let's vote. I find that by the majority of votes, 100 votes for and 2 abstentions, we have reached a conclusion in the text of the motions. I now put the second proposal to the vote. Please, let's vote. I note that most of the 99 votes for and 3 abstentions were made and another conclusion in the text as proposed by the applicant. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue to work, we have two points to unite in the morning. The first is: - Proposal for a Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, with the final proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 369 and - Proposal for a Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, with final proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 370 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia Article 172, Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article. 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate on both proposals was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and could now, on behalf of the proposing representative, the respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, give further reasons. Minister, go ahead.
