ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104968	Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, I wish you a good day, we continue with the working plenary session. Before continuing my work, I welcome the gallery of pupils and students of Dubrovnik School of Economics and Commerce, with their professors and teachers, welcome. Our turn is: - Proposal for a Law on a flood protection project in the river Kupa, first reading of P.Z. Number 461. [[Applause]] The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, by the competent Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and by the Committee on Agriculture. I call on the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, the respected Mr Tomislav Ćorić, to give us an explanation of the bill, please, Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104969	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and respected MPs, it is my pleasure to present before you today the proposal for a law on flood protection project in the river Kupa. During the last decade around the world and so on in the Republic of Croatia, extreme hydrological opportunities with large water and extreme waterways have often occurred, with floods that threaten human lives and major material damages. When we talk about priorities in the context of the defence against floods in the Republic of Croatia, one of the most critical areas is the region of the carlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina County and the smaller part of Zagreb County. The flood defense system in the Kupe River Basin was not built or partially built. The Drasnian hydrological opportunities in this area resulted in 10 floods, i.e. large waters from 2014 to 2018, for which extraordinary flood defence measures have been implemented. Historical maximum water stops were recorded at several waterway stations in the area in February and September 2014 and in October 2015. The merger of the four rivers Kupa, Korana, Režnica and Good in large waters from due to their mutual influence makes the defense against floods without a completely built system extremely difficult often impossible. The occurrence of floodwaters has threatened about 23,800 inhabitants in this area in an annual average of 2,130 inhabitants. The average annual direct and indirect flood damage is around 280 million kuna. If the current hydrological trend continues that the flood defence system is not built, new large water occurrences in the event of a failure of the current flood protection system could amount to more than 4 billion kuna, and the population at risk would increase. In March of this year we acted preventively and joined the construction of a temporary flood defense system in the Karlovac area by setting up the so-called so-called flood system. Box-barrier to stop possible size, large amounts of water after melting the snow due to a rapid rise in temperature, and this has proved successful. However, in order to protect the lives of citizens and their assets, we have joined the development of study documentation to prepare a flood protection project in the Kupa River Basin to report a co-financing project from the European Regional Development Fund through the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion. The feasibility study defines the scope of this project and the value is estimated at around EUR 120 million, i.e. around 900 million, with the value of the part of the project relating to the Karlovak area being estimated at 670 million kuna. The scope of the project is divided into a Karlovak and Sisak area within which measures are defined, or under projects planned to be implemented to protect the area from the floods of the Kupa River. The project includes the construction of oscillators and other protective water regulation structures in the Karlovac and Sisak area, as well as in the Odran field, as well as construction and bulkheads of Brodarci with accompanying facilities and digging of the Koran with accompanying facilities. In particular, the project provides for the construction and/or reconstruction of water protection and regulation structures. Construction of 111 km of embankment, reconstruction of 38 km of embankment, construction of at least 6 armored concrete walls, construction of at least 4.6 km of shore forts, construction of 6 gas stations, construction of 4 constitutions 2 on the digging of the Koran on the Kupa-Kupa canal and on the internal drain system Selce-Racica, and construction of about 26 canals of internal drain. The planned measures in the karlovak, Sisak and Zagreb areas relate to a total of 11 measures and as regards the karlovica area of the construction of the left coastal ridge Kupa from the railway bridge to the Brodaraca third stage, the construction of the dikes along the Koran and Režnica upstream from the mouth to the protection of the settlement Mala Švarća, Logorište and Turanj poljej, the construction of the prokopka Koran – Kupa, the construction of the dikes along the Koran and the Network connected to the construction of the fast road through Karlovac, the construction of the left coastal dikes Kupa from Selec to Rijeka, the right coastal ridge of Kupa from Brodarac to the brewery, the detachment of the left surrounding village from Selce to Rijeka, construction of the knots, the Brodaranci nodes with the following facilities on the Kupa Kupa, Kupa Kupa, Kupi, Kupi, the good retention of the Buy. As far as the Sisak area is concerned, it is about building a cliff to protect the settlement along the left and right coast of the Kupa downriver from the Jamnička Kiselica, which includes the dikes along the Kupa and the banks of Staro Pračno, Stara Drenčina. Construction of the Nasip in the Odran field for the protection of settlements along the Odra River and in the Odran field. As far as the Zagreb area is concerned, it is about the construction of a transverse embankment in the Odran field, or the merger of the left embankment from the Odra freight canal with the right coastal swath near the village of Suša. The biggest challenge in realising the project I'm talking about is because of the complexity and length of the duration of the proceedings, solving property legal relations for about 15 thousand land particles. The application of existing rules on the granting and fixing of compensation to the state measure and the real estate cataster and the spatial arrangement and construction due to the length of certain procedural actions does not ensure the rapid implementation of the flood protection project in the river Kupa. Since the solution to the implementation of this project is unsustainable because the increased flood intensity of high water conditions makes us to deal with this issue quickly and permanently and safely in finding ways to achieve maximum efficiency in the shortest time period, we have approached the creation of a special regulation, it is this law. The law is the result of successful cross-resorship cooperation in finding ways to accelerate, address key obstacles to the implementation of the project. This law would create specific rules that deviate from certain provisions, i.e. critical points of the rules on the granting and fixing of compensation, the state measure and the real estate cataster, and the spatial arrangement and construction but not from the spirit of the principle and the meaning of these laws. The other provisions of these regulations would be subject to subsidiarity and that this law is not different. The assessment is that the adoption of this legislative proposal will speed up the resolution of property legal relations in such a way that the duration of the proceedings will be reduced by half. For example, on a specific case, according to the applicable Law on the granting and fixing of a fee, the exemption of 78 land particles lasted a total of 331 days. The application of this special law would take 139 days. After the implementation of this project, the annual flood threat will decrease by as many as 14 times. About 2,000 130 people are now at risk annually, implementing less than 160 people. And there will be a reduction in the average annual direct and indirect damages of around 238 million kuna compared to the current 280 million kuna, which is a reduction of 85%. The aim of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to apply for EU funds and to obtain approval for this project by the end of 2019 and to build regulatory and protective water structures envisaged by the project, thereby removing the long-term fear of each announcement of the more abundant rainfall and achieving permanent protection of people and their property from floods in the area concerned. The adoption of this law would make a significant contribution to achieving the deadlines set. For part of the operation in the project, local permits and two building permits were issued. So the ransom is an expropriated part of the property, 325 plots. For the whole project, with the application of existing regulations, there are 11 more local permits, two amendments and additions to the location permits, 15 building permits and one amendment and addition of the building permit. Also on July 25th, I want to point out here, the construction of the first phase that I cited earlier was the construction of the left coastal ridge of the Cup from the railway bridge to the Brodaracs, its third stage. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, please show our understanding of the problem that has been present in this area for decades, so in the area covered by Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina County and part of Zagreb County. Following the above, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the Croatian Parliament accept the proposal for a Law on Flood Protection in the Coupa River River in the first reading and that all proposals and remarks arising from the debate on this Act will be discussed by the Proposer when drawing up the final proposal of the Law. Please give unanimous support to this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104970	I thank the respected minister, Mr. Coric, for the reasons of the bill. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an assistant. I welcome the adoption of such a legal solution that is only possible to speed up problem resolution, all the problems for this Sisak and Karlovak part, which is the spilling of the Kupa River. However, as chairman of the Commission for Fundamental Accidents, I am very pleased with that, but I propose that a series of previous engagements be incorporated into the law a provision on the use of gravel and sand from the bottom of the river. So, first, the bottom of the river should be cleaned and then the gravel and sand used to lift the embankment and not as it happened in corridor 5C that we brought material 200 or 300 km away because of Nature and the material was used on the right side of the Sava River or on the Hungarian side of the river Drava. So I'm asking you to fit it into the law if that's not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104972	Thank you. Answer, Minister Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104973	Dear Representative Križanić, I thank you for your suggestion or suggestion, the theme in question is already in some way determined by the Waters Act and also by this project, or its realization, which will make sure that, as you yourself have said, gravel, or sand, which is likely to be taken from the bottom, or from the river Kupa trough, is used in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104974	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104975	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers with Associates. We at HSS and I personally support this project because citizens of the city of Karlovac and the wider surroundings deserve to be resolved systematically and in quality. The question is why a special law, when we have the Strategic Project Act, could not be solved through that law. And secondly, whether or not the project will stop or slow down the restoration of the embankment from Stara Gradiška to Gunja and Racinovac, and whether it will continue to build accumulations and retentions at the foot of Psunja, Papuka and Dilja to prevent floods in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104976	Thank you. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaović, above all, for supporting, project and law and also for suggestions, i.e. questions. Therefore, the implementation of this project should not slow down the implementation of other projects in the water utility infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. Why is it that a special law in relation to laws, legislation that promotes the realisation of strategic projects, because this is one of the few situations, I would say one of the rare phenomena, therefore, of flood water or high water in the area of these three counties or in the banks of the Kupa River that threatens human lives and property, is it? With other strategic projects, we don't have that situation. And just the fact that these high waters are growing from year to year, as we see, as a phenomenon, more and more often, has made us react and move with special legal frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104978	I would like to thank Minister Coric for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104979	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, the distinguished ministers with their associates. I'll talk a little bit about this law in a debate on behalf of the club, except I'll talk to technical aspects. We at the Voice Club support that there is a lex specialis that points to the fact that in a regular procedure you simply can't solve things, we clearly have to say and that's why we need this. But my question concerns the fact, it might be good to say now, but what procedure is it? When you bring a lex specialis for a particular procedure to say, the coverage is so many hectares and that we know what is being brought on, you may have the information, so it would be good to say that we generally shed light on how large a spatial coverage this law refers to is, therefore, the space of that county, as you said in the opening explanation, it is one big space, to take a general look at what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104980	I thank my esteemed colleague. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104981	Dear MPs Mrak Taritaš, above all, thank you for supporting this project, or this legislative proposal. In the opening speech, I said, so I can't specify the number of hectares because I really don't have that information right now. However, in the opening speech, I said, therefore, it is an area that affects the good part of the Carlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina and in two places, in fact, this project also affects Zagreb County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104982	I thank you for your reply to the Minister. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104983	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, dear ministers with associates. Here I am expressing complete understanding and support for this project of yours. It's really ugly to watch everything that happens at the time of the flood, especially in this karlovica area of the Kupa Basin, and I absolutely think there won't be any problem with all the MPs in this Croatian Parliament to support this project. I would just like to, clearly, update some other problems that are visible throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here I live along the border with Slovenia, and I know the Slovenians regulated their Sava on the other side. Unfortunately, we're not here, so here I would like to update this problem and create a comprehensive, comprehensive strategy to build a flood-defension dam. In any case, what you've mentioned is 580 million kuna damage we have from the flood, and it's estimated, if there's more extreme opportunities, that it is and, as you said, 4 billion. I think we should invest in the flood defense system. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104984	Thank you. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104985	Dear Representative Prelec, first of all, thank you, and I hope to the colleagues on the proposal of this law. As far as the other projects are concerned, I am fully aware that it is not just the area of the Kupa River that is threatened. However, I believe you'll agree it's about the most endangered area. Helper Kos told me when preparing to answer your question, it was yesterday your letter from the Brdovec Municipality, as far as I know in 2010, that there was a year of high water in Brdovec Municipality and floods. So neither the Municipality of Brdovec, nor any other municipality and city or region that is threatened by the flood, can come out of our flood defense programs and we as the Ministry and Croatian Waters as, say, extended arm, will do anything to solve these problems as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104986	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104987	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Ćorić, of course this project is needed and in fact the tragedy is the Republic of Croatia which has long not been realised. However, we are where we are. However, the issue of extradition is raised. This law overrides several laws and out of these 15,000 plots, 80 to 90% of them are actually agricultural parcels. However, everything is placed in the same basket and everything that is agricultural and where there is an economic facility and where there is a house or where people live. Therefore, if you have read more in detail, I believe that it is, it means a lot to degrade property rights, it is not the same if someone will come to you without a call, without informing you of one of your plots there by the river that is blue, where there is nothing but mosquitoes or will come to you where you live. And it's all in the same basket. Therefore, I suggest that until the second reading, a distinction be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104988	Thank you. Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104989	Thank you very much, Mr. Sincic, first of all, for supporting this proposal. Indeed, in the case of extradition, it is necessary to make a distinction between different forms of property or different forms of land, I assume you have alluded to that. The official assessment or assessors will have to go out on the ground and expropriation as such will neither at the end nor be able to be made at one price for all parcels. So I really believe in the procedure that will be done in the right way. That distance itself required by the logic of things, I believe that at the end of the day there will be no problem, that's all I can say right now from this pay phone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104990	I thank the Minister for his reply. If the Committee's rapporteur would like to take your word for it, please, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104991	Thank you, Chairman. The Environmental Protection Committee... HS discussed at the 34th session on 15 November, Proposal for a Law on Flood Protection in the Kupa River Basin. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Committee discussed this law as a parent working body. Following this opening argument, the Committee supports the bill's proposal and underlines the importance of realising this investment project and its positive effects on reducing the threat of human lives and material damage from floods in the Kupa River Basin. At the same time, with the support of the need to adopt this Act, an opinion has been drawn up as each specific law, Lex specialis, represents a kind of defeat of the applicable legislative legislation, as exceptions show that we are not able to consume the applicable legislation in an objective time. So what we've already established is valid, it hasn't helped us much, of 15000 particles, we've managed to solve only 325, so now we're admitting ourselves defeat and we're going to do Lex specialis. Since the basic problem that has arisen, namely the creation of this Law, is highlighted by the fact that the construction of this flood protection system requires the resolution of property and legal relations, the 15000 real estates mentioned. Further clarifications have been requested in connection with the extradition procedure. The applicant's representative further explained that the funds for these purposes will be retroactively requested from the European Union's funds, and that around 80 to 90% of the land, of the 15000 mentioned, is agricultural land which is largely unprocessed. That the severance procedures are conducted correctly and that property owners are agreed on the issue of acquisition of ownership. The debate also noted that the idea of a flood protection project in this basin dates back to '81. A question has been asked to measure the current project, which, if I recall correctly, has been made since '14. So to this day, it matches that '81 project. The proposer's representative pointed out that a whole new project has come up. Looking at the positive effects of this special regulation on the implementation of strategic investment projects, the opinion has been expressed on the need to develop a general law that would allow the implementation of key projects in the water economy, or future projects from the flood defence domain in the shortest time or other words, why only for the Coupe plum to do Lex specialis, why not improve for all cases, procedures and speed it up? In this context, the issue and the development of the Environmental Impact Study are also open, in a more operational way, without prejudice to environmental standards. And lastly, given that climate change is one of the biggest environmental challenges in the debate, the need to bring this project into line with strategic documents from, therefore, adaptation to climate change. The question has been raised to the extent to which this project is aligned with the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy for the period from 2040 to 2070, and with what is later brought we know for a year, because it was due to be in November '17. A year. It has been warned that unless the long-term consequences are considered, the project can also prove its capacity insufficient. Representatives explained that, therefore, the basic strategic documents in the water economy, such as the Water Management Plan from 2016 to 2021, and the multiannual programme for the construction of regulatory water protection structures and milliorization structures, are therefore in line with climate change adaptation documents, and that a strategic environmental assessment procedure has been carried out. It is also stated that in dimensioning it went from 5x to greater standard. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously supported the adoption of the bill with 8 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104992	I would like to thank the President of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Mr Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, for this report on behalf of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104993	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning to say that the MOST Club will, of course, support this Law, because this is not about building a golf course or a tourist complex, it's about an object or objects, and the minister explained it in detail, so it's about a complex technical solution, I think it's worth EUR 120 million to be mentioned in this material itself for the law. So there's no saying that this object should not be built, these objects, because they will protect both property, and lives and human health, and there's no doubt about it. Maybe just a few things, and it's about, that's what my colleague Sincic said about the dilemma itself and what was being discussed on the Committee. In fact, the minister pointed out that, here it is about the Law, the Special Law, the special Law that is made for this project, and then we have to keep two things in mind when we apply this type of law. First, it is the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the protection of private ownership, and the other thing are existing laws or general laws such as the Law on Exclusion and the question is asked whether, in view of, and also the minister said that this is a rare case, whether this is a rare case or whether, with these legal decisions so far, there is something wrong in general, so perhaps, in accordance with what the minister pointed out, co-operation between the resolution ministries could be found in this cooperation, finding a solution that would be acceptable in the future without such cases. So that all our actions be, especially with projects like this, faster and ultimately, that this is realised within a reasonable period, or that it happens to us, in the end, to lose resources, possible funds from the European Union Funds. So here's a concrete example, so Article 13, of this Law. This article is prescribed by the Law on the Authorisation of Article 30, and what we now say the West in the eyes, we are speeding up the whole procedure, and then we are in the situation that in paragraph 4, the word proves that the beneficiary of the exemption has secured special funds laid down in the bank at the level of approximately the amount necessary to make the compensation, and that is repeated again in the next paragraph, again roughly necessary. That item is prescribed by the Act of Exclusion, and now the question is, is it good to stand there too, but now that we speed up the procedure, is it good to have the word about it? If we know now, we know the value of the project, we'll know the value of these particles, it's about agricultural land as it's said here, in the most part, to be a different formulation, meaning, not to be now, to be a man, to say it this picturesquely, not to happen to people, and I see that public debate and people are asking it to happen that people think we're going to rule you out and then you're proving that you're going to get money or not. And especially when there's a provision around, what if there's not enough money for that particle? If this is where the provision is approximated. Here's one of the dilemmas the minister might answer. And finally, once again, I welcome this law, of course, and the whole project, to come to life as soon as possible. I would also take advantage of the opportunity that here is Slavonia has problems with our channels that are abandoned, to appeal to Croatian waters, to go around their canals a little bit, to clean them up, because it happens there as well. As head of the municipality, I had to order those bridges to be removed at private houses, and the man really threatened with weapons, after we destroyed his property, so I appeal to the Croatian waters to deal with it. And as for this law, you have ministers' support, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104994	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Žagar, for the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Marija Jelkovac, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104995	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here I am as a Karlovchanka, extremely grateful and competent ministry and government for welcoming this bill, which is one wheel in this flood protection project. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Art. 2. paragraph 4 of subparagraphs 1 and 2 which speak of the fact that the Croatian Parliament, directly, decides independently in accordance with the Constitution and the law on the regulation of economic, legal and political relations in the Republic of Croatia, as well as on the preservation and use of natural and cultural wealth, and Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 52. The constitution that says they lead as well as other parts of nature, which are of particular importance to the Republic of Croatia, have its special protection. Water is a natural resource of invaluable importance to our country and we need to protect and protect it, because there is no life without water. On the other hand, in the last few years, we have witnessed how water, i.e. Our rivers can suddenly become a powerful and inconclusive human enemy, or they can cause enormous damage, if a man cannot keep them in some situations, under control. Let's remember Gunja and the enormous damage that changed people's lives overnight, but unfortunately, it wasn't just Gunja. Elemental disasters resulting from the flood of memory and other parts of our region, especially the Carlovacka and Sisak Moslavina County, and I must stress that in the last 4 years, the Karlovac has really had huge problems due to the floods, that some of our fellow citizens had 5 times the water in the house, that after the first flood they took credit to rebuild their home and that several months. Afterwards, the flood struck again and the water entered their house again, and they virtually did not start to pay off the loan. So here is what will be the contribution of this law, certainly something that in these areas and this whole project, and its realization, people with impatience expect. In July 2014, the production of study documentation for the preparation of flood protection projects in the Coupa River Basin from EU funds began in March 2016. The most significant result is the feasibility study for the flood protection project in the Kupa River Basin in the area of the Karlovac County and Sisak Moslavina County, and in the smaller part of Zagreb County. The project consists of embankments and other regulatory water protection structures, including bulkheads... with the following facilities and the burial of the Koran with the following facilities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The value of the project has been estimated at 120m euros, feasibility studies, has been prepared to implement the project for co-financing with the European Regional Development Fund, through the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion 2014-2020. Co-financing of the project as a public institution would account for 85% of the European Regional Development Fund, and 15% of the national funding. In the course of the feasibility study, it was agreed to conduct environmental impact studies. Part of the project related to the protection against the floods of Karlovac, titled the flood protection project of the city of Karlovac, Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship, was listed in October 2017 on the list of strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia. The basis of the flood protection system in the area, makes the cargo channel Kupa-Kupa and the natural retention... The management of the entire system is achieved by the construction of the ship's dam, the walls and the walls are performed on certain moves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the area of the town of Karlovac, a planned line defence system would be completed against floods, embankments and walls, complemented with a dig at the mouth of the river Korana in the river Kupu. In this area in the present state of the flood defence system, except for the city of Karlovac and Sisak, flood events are exposed to a large part of suburban settlements and other urbanized areas, municipal, industrial and transport infrastructure, and a number of other significant facilities. In particular, the exposure of the local population to floods is significant, and the exposure to the total space of other indirect flood damages, such as dives and slides, resulting in huge damage. Here's how I was on my own in the city's basic disaster committee in the town of Karlovac, so I'll tell you just some information, so, due to the flood in Karlovac in February 2014. .g total estimated damage was 28 million 324 thousand 389 kn. Then in September 2014, the total estimated damage was HRK 65,640,191 and then in October 2015 the total damage was estimated at HRK 28,667,770 and also in October 2015 due to the landslides, estimated at HRK 26,392,375, which are huge amounts. So we are all aware and we understand the necessity of this project being implemented as quickly as possible and thus protecting people and their property. In order to build a flood protection system in the river Kupa, as already heard, it is necessary to address property-legal relations on about 15,000 properties and to pass building acts as soon as possible in order to apply the project for EU funds in the planned period, and the plan is to do so by the end of 2019. To actually realize the whole construction project by the end of 2023. To achieve this goal, it is precisely necessary that this law is a lex specialis to speed up the procedures prescribed in existing legislation. These specific proposed rules are in line with the principles of existing rules on the granting and fixing of compensation.../incomprehensible/... measurements and the cataster of real estate, spatial planning and construction, but due to urgency, the proposed solutions make partial exceptions to the existing legal rules. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Water Act explicitly determines, build and maintain water structures in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and Article 4 of the proposed law determines the interest of the Republic of Croatia in construction under this project. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the The law on spatial planning in such a way that project structures can be built in stages or phase without issuing a location permit and in accordance with the main project. As an exception to the Law on Spatial Planning, this law provides that land parceling can also be carried out in accordance with the parceling design or other geodetic design on the basis of which the data on building particles and other buildings are recorded and changed in the cataster. This is necessary in order to speed up the implementation of the project, because the procedures for the establishment of local permits would normally take a year to slow down the realisation of the settlement of property-legal relations, and we see that the huge number of land particles that need to be dealt with in an asset-legislative manner for the realisation of the project. The proposed provisions of this law should allow for the launch and completion of the process of parceling, buying-in and expropriation of the newly proposed fertilisation act to be based on the newly proposed act. The application of the parties' consent institutes to the persons of the proposed assessors is excluded and the procedure is therefore also accelerated. This does not deprive parties of their rights because they may, if they are not satisfied with the assessment, request re-examination in accordance with the ZUP. This proposal sets out the application of Article 129 of the Law. The construction law is building without a building permit for the needs of this project. Article 129 and paragraph 1 of that Law states that, in the event of a direct threat to human beings and goods from natural disasters, war destruction or other destruction due to the dangers of these events during and immediately after their termination without a building permit, buildings may be built to prevent the effects of these events or to eliminate adverse consequences. Thus, it is defined that the construction is done on the basis of the main project. This bill also deviates from the established rule by which the procedures are to be initiated according to the rules under which they are to be started, and also because of the acceleration of the procedure itself. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues here we have all witnessed all the events that we have experienced due to the basic flood disasters in these parts and we are aware of what damage our fellow citizens have had and for these reasons we are also aware of the need to make the urgent realization of this project and the full justification of the proposal for this legal solution. Once again, I thank the competent ministry for its efforts to bring this project to life as soon as possible and how our fellow citizens, some five times in four years, had water in their home and had to get out of their home in cold months, which I don't ever want to see happen to them again, I really believe that this bill can achieve that this project ends as soon as possible. The Ministry is in co-ordination with Croatian waters, and I believe that this project will be implemented within the planned deadlines due to such coordinated action. The HDZ Club supports this bill, and all of you colleagues and colleagues from other clubs, although I see that so far you have also told us that you accept this bill as justifiable, I want to say once again the eyes of our fellow citizens are against the sky, but they also expect us to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104996	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. Next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104997	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister and Assistant Minister. We have before us a law that we call lex specialis. I'd like to say a few things first. First thing, there's one fact that climate change is reality. You don't need to be an expert, you don't need to be a meteorologist, you don't need to be an expert on the plant and animal world, it's enough just to see around you, to see the month that's November, in the second half of November there'll be signs of November and that's fact. So experts also point out that the changes that the plant and animal world will absolutely adapt, will adapt both people and what is popular and from this payphone has been said several times, we will have this century, centuries and climate migration and people on certain parts will not be able to live. Where is Croatia? Climate change in Croatia is reflected among other things in the increased number of rainy days, that is the fact. And the fact is that certain parts of Croatia will be blue and you simply cannot avoid it. It's not since yesterday, it's from before. When you look at a little space around Drava, it no longer blues because Drava is regulated in Slovenia because the accumulation lakes are made, because the whole river has gone down. So now I'm not getting into any technical stuff, that's the truth. And we also have to give the answer because, as my colleague said before, it was four times blue for people and it's still going to be blue and something needs to be done. Now we're coming up with a way to do it. When the first time, or when I first met the subject of lex specialis, then I had to admit it to me was foreign, I had a hill, a hill, a hill of questions in my head, why, why, why, then I went to see how other countries in Europe handled it. And then when I saw that other countries in Europe when they faced a problem that needed to be solved immediately reached for the lex specialis model. One non-EU country that we always know how to trust like this is always some bright spot for us, Switzerland. For example, Switzerland brought a lex specialis, they had in their legislation that investments in Switzerland could not work anyone who did not have Swiss citizenship and citizenship was extremely difficult to obtain. They had one area of Switzerland that was terribly lagging behind everyone else and brought a lex specialise that they could be investors of foreigners there to stimulate the growth of the area. Likewise in the neighbouring country, in Slovenia they are also on several occasions especially when it was, they were even talking about investment. This lex specialty is actually an expression of impotence. We have to solve the problem, so we have a swimming problem, we have money that we can secure, we have deadlines until we can secure that money. If we enter into the legislation that is in force, if you enter the laws as the minister has initially said from the aspect of the catatra, from the aspect of the grantovnica, from the aspect of the spatial arrangement, from the aspect of the construction, from the aspect of the delegation, we will pass through in 2023, we will not have all the necessary permits and we will watch people raise loans, people are blue and people are going to leave us for different reasons. These people will leave because they won't be able to live there. So it's absolutely good to go with the lex specialis and he has to point out the fact that we, I'm talking a lot from this pay phone, I'm saying that these laws that we have, that we like to pass the law. These laws offer you security, and they offer you security for those who betray under these laws because they have done nothing wrong. As soon as you enter a special law, as soon as you get into some things where you want to solve something with a shortcut, you come up with a problem. The problem isn't the moment when the law is passed, the problem isn't the moment it works, the problem is behind it. I can tell you a lot about this on the subject of floods in Cvelferia where the whole project has been done in a year, thousands of houses have been built, another thousand and a half houses have been renovated, all public purpose buildings, I still bear the consequences and explain that it could have been so and by no means different, but everyone uses it for some other things. I today when I think about it, you could do it like that or not have more settlements there, but it's a completely different story. When the Law was a strategic project, no one dared do it until the end. No one dare say, we have strategic projects, for strategic projects, it's a minimum of which we won't give up and we'll go through another methodology. On this example, I'm actually going to say what it's about. What you can't stand back from is spatial plans. What you can't give up is your environmental and natural impact assessments, if you do it wrong, you've done a lasting consequence in space. That's something you can't back off from. You have to have some kind of project you're working on. And in the end, when you do, you have to ensure that you get all the necessary approvals, i.e. to iron them all out and make it legal. And you can't stand back from making people look bad. So the starting position is your spatial plan and your impact assessment on the environment and nature, your final position is a realised project and the way that this realised project gets everything, to carry it through the cadastre, the garnery and the rest. The expropriation procedure, the model in which you secure the means to rule out a man, you have, you use the Real Estate Assessment Act that says it's done. Let's be honest, some of the land and some of the houses that are in this space are worth 0, now, thanks to the project you will rule them out and that you will be able to live somewhere else because they are not there to live. So they'll get for their real estate something and they'll be able to live somewhere else. You have to secure a portion of the funds that they know will receive compensation, that compensation is fair. And those who are dissatisfied will still be judged and do what is right. And now we get to this middle part. I have to admit I'm in the minister's seat, I might be a little different. I'd do one step here, and that's why we're kind of discussing this in a slightly different way. So what I don't doubt is a spatial plan, an environmental impact assessment and nature. I'd only have the main project. And I'm based on g. The project would do parcels, based on g. The project would do construction, use this article. which speaks of the Law of Construction and the foundation of g. The project went on and on. I wouldn't be capacitated by a location permit, I wouldn't be capacitated by all these procedures, for the simple reason, which, I'm an architect. And my fellow architects were terribly resentful to me when I, when I had the opportunity, threw out, say, the obligation, the obligation to be an implementing project. For reasons I appreciated that the implementation project, that the relationship between investors and performers, investors and he will work for himself, that it is generally difficult to say, but an additional burden for someone. So in this area where I'm going to discuss, I'm going to discuss, so we're going to support this law. We stand for lex specialis,... from this lex specialis should be the following, my people, let's see once again, our legislation is complicated, difficult, demanding, for projects that we want to withdraw and that we want to realize, we have to do a lex specialis because we won't withdraw them, we won't realize them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it's been a normal procedure for a year for exorcism. Under this procedure is a third of it, so that's a lot. That's a lot for some kind of project, because while we're doing it together, some people are flooded, people are gonna say I won't wait for you anymore, I'm going. It's something that should really be kind of taken care of. I'm missing two things in this law and somehow I wish the ministry wasn't something that caused some kind of big fight. In the first article, I would like to write what it refers to. If it's a spatial coverage, the surface of the circus is so much and so many acres, that we know about what it's about, so whenever we always, whenever we go, we say it refers to it, it's not going to be much of a struggle, in art. 1. to say space, therefore, a spatial coverage in some kind of hectares in some sense, in some sense, that's something you can do there and strategic environmental impact assessments get out, very simple. And really make an extra effort. You are here in these articles that are related to the plot and related to all of this, you state the spatial plans again, you state the location permit again, you state again... project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why don't you really decide where the main project is? See. The project you get is consistent with the spatial plan, you have all the elements in it for what reason? If we weren't doing projects on projects, not using funds, where we'd be if it was, what... The project shows in, I'm a technical profession and I have to say it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a situation 1 versus 5000 that shows you a coverage that you... and some kind of description. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main project tells you, it tells you a lot more, some kind of technical solution. And beyond that, what you have to do to make sure that it doesn't happen to us, so it makes sense to me that you're going to use the construction law, which says, when it's an elemental accident, it's built without a building permit based on g. the project. Have a look. The project and then give yourself some time to do it together, because we have a lot of cases, when it's used and the procedure isn't over. In conclusion, from this law, we read globally the following, that our legislation is really complicated, that our procedures are complicated, that he really offers you leniency, when someone comes to you, give it, say little and it won't be wrong if he does it for a year. If he does in a month, we'll all say how to do it in a month. So, absolutely the other way around, it points to that fact. It points to the fact that if we really want to withdraw for large EU funding projects that are being offered, not only to withdraw them but to make them real and to enable people there to survive, life and work, we have to have a lex specialis, but when you do, then try one more step to make life easier, make life easier, less resources will be sitting with the rest of the ministry, so listen to me. Seems to me like it is. a project quite enough, so you don't have to go into these changes and additions, location permits, so you don't have to have location permits, because they're capacitating you. Have a look. The project, you build on it, you build on it, you get the building permits that you need, and then you do it in the catastro and the grantovnica so it doesn't stay, that something has been done, that it hasn't been implemented, it's just kind of a condition for future generations. It seems to me that it would be better than this law, it would make your life easier and it would be easier for you to work, and these are just fuses for you, when you come in and you say, let's try it that way, then actually out of uncertainty or out of equipment are fuses, let's keep it just in case. To stay just in case I don't think it's good, so I'll just go back to that thought and I'll end up with that. with spatial planning documentation, regardless of whether you have UP, if you have GUP, if you have a spatial plan, therefore, there are already compliance fuses with spatial planning documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The GLAS and HSU club will also support this law in its first reading. My debate was a little bit more detailed and a little more technical for a simple reason, which I would like, if this law really were made for you in a way that speeded up the procedure so you wouldn't put your foot in your neck. Don't put your foot in your neck, 'cause there's gonna be a lot of them that'll put that on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104998	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Before continuing the session, I welcome students and students, i.e. Professors and professors of the Koprivnica Brethren School which are located upstairs at the gallery and here in the Assembly. ... Welcome and pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause.]] We continue the debate, on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club dear colleague Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u104999	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. What my colleague Mrak said, apparently, that what we're technical professions of operative practice have a kind of structure of discussion, which are more socialists, they'll be more generally, so in that part, I'll be more technical and practical, and of course based on certain experiences that I have. Lex specialis, so we came with this project or there are several projects integrated into one whole problem and certainly there is no reason, however, we will support it precisely for the reason and that this project is due to be fully realised. I am not going to talk about the necessity of this need, but I would like to make an appointment through this debate to some practical thinking and what it is, to try to predict certain problems and once this law is passed that can follow in the implementation of the project itself. Although it's hard through the law to predict everything, define, but what's important, and I'll talk about it a little later at the end of the debate. On the one hand, it is good to pass this law, on the other hand, I would like to have one general law that would have precisely these kinds of projects, especially as regards the water economy, because it is specific, and I am also based on this data that is visible here, which have conditioned climate change, which will be, whether the flood, whether or not some others, do not want to call, elemental disasters, from the slide, from what is expensive, that it is precisely the realization of such projects at the recovery, that the procedure itself can be simplified to those extreme borders, so I can generally agree with my colleague Mrak Taritash that this is the level of the main project. Of course, I'll repeat, the HNS Club will support this bill. But what is missing, not in this law, it can only be read from the basis of the opening arguments, I generally think we lack a strategic approach, especially as far as I'm concerned, or maybe I don't have enough information, so I'm based on that information that I have. Today we have, we're discussing lex specialis, it's going to cover three counties, we're witnessing back a few years, we're swimming the city on four rivers, I believe it's not simple, and of course, this is at this point, I see as the only possible measure. But where tomorrow, what we're going to do next year, next year, about which lex specialis in which area we're going to discuss. So, I would like Croatia to lead, the Resort Ministry, when we talk about the water economy to try to make this as a template, to bring in a lex specialis, let's call it that, in general, to prevent swimming that we don't have to be, let's say, ominous prophets where it might be, but just in some way try to pass a law that exactly, that we can react immediately. Why am I saying that? In 2014, when detected, floods, etc. were intensified. 2016. completed study documentation, we are today in 2018, the 2017 part of the project which has been integrated into a complete solution has been declared a strategic project, colleagues and colleagues for 4 years. We know very well how much time it takes to build a major project. In the best of conditions, it's a year, a year and a half for this level and a couple of teams to work. Could we, let's say, assume by one law that we had it, means which strategic thinking we could already have, be in the recovery phase and at the end of this project regardless of when the European Funds' tenders are being opened, etc. Here's what I wanted to say first about it. Furthermore, when we talk about spatial plans, spatial plans bring local self-government in line with regional national etc. Don't get me wrong, whether all these properties were building land, whether there was legal construction or if it was illegal construction. Who brings up the spatial plans? From the weekends, see exactly those areas where they were building 100 years ago, where houses were built. You will not see any of them, nor find any of them in the trough, in the scope of any river. This is what I'm saying for the future. That's where we had the same case, and in Posavina, we have the Buy it, in this part, which this project includes, who's responsible for it? We are responsible for bringing these spatial plans. Well, he says come on, so it hasn't been blue in the last 10 years, it hasn't been blue, let's expand the construction area, so let's make a spatial plan, it's not worth agricultural land, let's do that industrial business zone, etc. Cap, here's your climate change and now where we are and what we are. In this part we also do not consider strategic, Croatian water, induction belt as a kind of reserved area in the river bed next to the river bed, coast, etc. whether it is indicated anywhere, whether it is recorded anywhere, or whether we are going through spatial plans to redefine it in these areas. Applying the rules, this is a simple dictionary given a shortcut, how to get to the documents we need as soon as possible to realize the projects. I will read only Article 3, first, point 1: “To the question of expropriation for the purposes of a project that is not regulated by this law, the provisions governing the expropriation, determination etc.” means, in part, this, as an example, I quote more or less when it comes to parcels and spatial plans, etc., we refer to that part of the lex specialis and what is not settled by it let's regulate according to existing laws. I would like to, and I believe that in the making of this law you have very precisely defined what is necessary and whether everything in this text of the law is contained. Namely, for what reason? In particular, Article 6, point 2, land parcels outside the construction area in order to increase the building particle within the building area border is not allowed. So it has to be consistent with spatial plans. What if it's not? We know very well what it means on the spatial plan one line of flomasters that is to be transferred to the scale. I'm afraid that's one limiting factor. It may be, it doesn't have to, but it can be. The plot of land outside the construction area to increase the building particle within the border, let's see the main project. Let's see the future induction belt, the area of procedure, whether the spatial plan was implemented as it should, as this project requires. Furthermore, I also said that on the board, I consider it a lex specialis and taught the experiences of what happened in Gunja, article 15 built without a building permit, all clear, acceptable. The dangers of, point 2, since the occurrence of events, the endangerment of people and the welfare of natural disasters in the scope of the project are predominant, interpretation of Article 129. In my opinion, even though it says so, it's a summation of articles of this law and the Construction Act. Because I've asked if a valid permit is needed if the construction needs to be followed. But I believe that if it is assumed that the Construction Act is, it should be, for precisely the reason a responsible person has been sought for the cracks of the ruins in Gunja. So as not to be in perspective, God forbid something happened so we don't know who's responsible. Of course, you know who's responsible, who's building, supervision, project manager and everything. And finally, I'd like you to consider this proposal, of course, it requires a lot of time, a lot of engagements, in general. I don't want bad hunches, but I don't think this is gonna be the only lex specialis in the future. And that's why I'd like you to try to sum up in one place based on these experiences and experiences, we've had catastrophic floods in Gunja, resuscitating them, of course it all requires an additional engagement to try to make one whole, so let's call it a lex specialis especially on water buildings but strategic thinking. This, second thing, of course, does not apply to your portfolio, but I think for that very reason, you're responsible for the water economy, when you're making spatial plans to make more accounts because the floods and this concern that's now going on don't happen where some 50, 60 years ago, in an area where there hasn't been a construction area today is, just for the sake of thinking about the future. As far as environmental protection is concerned, of course studies are necessary. However, we also know very well what the procedures are. And I don't think anyone's doubting here about nature protection, environmental protection, is that it's a priority not just because it's written in the Constitution. However, I also think that our human lives and property are citizens that should be our priority. So try to see, if everything isn't so imperatively put into the function of what it says, maybe even more detail, to add some things. It just means that when this law is passed and it's going to be passed, I mean because no one can have, it can only be that it either doesn't understand or oppose it to be against. But it's precisely for future projects like that to make things simpler. And of course, I'm saying, I'm going to repeat the HNS club will support and I'd like you to consider a whole law that, which will not be targeted for a particular project, but where the conduct will be implemented precisely by the basis of some new law and I believe you'll think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105000	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Here you go, dear fellow Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105001	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the disturbing fact that Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Tolusic is coming to the Parliament this week and reading fake messages against the MPs of the Living Wall. A man who has 6 drivers, who expends on a team who shares wood with his friends and godmothers in the absence of an argument to defend himself against the facts presented again, is being used against the MPs using the intelligence underground and is not sufficient to teach him a lesson he learned by arresting his driver, Mr. Curic, and by revealing links with Mr. Varg, but continues to reach a level of personal accounting that is extremely unworthy of one person who performs such a high function as the Deputy Prime Minister. We believe that this is a serious threat to the credibility of this high institution, and if you want the safety of the MPs themselves, we believe that the vice-presidents of the government should not be associated with criminals and even less employ them as drivers, suspects and especially not use their services in dealing with legally elected representatives of the people in this high house. We believe that you should react to the Vice-President of the Parliament team before because he knows very well what we are talking about and generally political parties and say that this way of communication in this high house is not appropriate, so here is why we are looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105002	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. I will not grant you a recess because the basis of Article 3(5) of this Agreement does not relate to the stated items of the agenda. Since you have misused the Rules of Procedure under Article 39, I give you my warning. Here you go, Mr. Shuker. ... Thank you very much. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We continue with individual debates, respected colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105003	Thank you, dear, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with an associate. Here I am glad that we have finally come to the creation of a law or project that will save not only property but people's lives in my county. I am glad that through this debate we can agree that we need it and we do not only need it in these areas for which this project is being developed but also for some other parts. If we look at Sisak-Moslavina County, we know that it is rich in natural resources and, in particular, with water wealth, we know that Sisak is a city on three rivers and sometimes that nature plays with us. We know we can't influence everything, but the human factor is extremely important here. A part of the embankment located in Sisak-Moslavina County has unfortunately not been maintained for years, and in part no quality embankments or other buildings have been built to protect these parts from floods. Of course, here on several occasions are highlighted climate change which is a very important factor in all these events that take place in the area of Sisak-Moslavina County. The floods of course relate to human lives, we saw it not only on the example of Gunja but also in other flood areas except of course that they do great material damage. We can also talk about those indirect damages that we often don't express through money, which are all the human resources we use in flood defense, from firefighters, police, military, red cross, HGSS, and not to add any more. On the very example of Sisak-Moslavina County, we can also talk about indirect damage through, of course, Karlovac and other counties, and through damages to the municipal infrastructure, then pollution of drinking water needs, traffic interruptions, you know that the main road connecting Sisak with the highway or the centre of the county during the last flood or during each flood was, was closed. If we look at the statistics of Sisak-Moslavina County we will see how the municipality of Lekenik is often a flooded area, then the area of Jasenovac municipality, the area of Dubica municipality, the latest floods in Costa Rica and the landslides have significantly endangered the lives of the inhabitants. However, if we return to the damages that occurred in the river Kupa, and I will here, for example, highlight the area of Lekenik municipality where 6 floods occurred from 2014 to 2018 and all 6 floods are classified as an elementary disaster and during that period the damage reported is exceeding 12 million kuna. So it's not small money, it's not something to ignore. If we look at the entire Sisak-Moslavina County with the aforementioned municipalities from 2014 to 2018, it is predicted that the flood damage has crossed about 35 million kuna. That is why this project itself is welcome to the area of Sisak-Moslavina County, the value of the project, estimated at EUR 120 million, seems to us now at the moment when we are talking about it extremely large, but all of this information that I have previously provided would be much higher if we do not reach out to this project and if we do not create adequate dikes and certain water and regulation structures that will protect us from the floods. Of course, we must point out that this project would reduce the risk of floods themselves, but also costs incurred for damages and the frequency of the implementation of regular and extraordinary flood defence measures. I can't say that nothing has been done since 2014 to this day on this yet Croatian waters have realized that some areas are extremely endangered, so they have been very helpful in the area of Lekenik municipality and here they can thank Croatian waters and water economic... Put on a small plum Banovina in Sisak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could have, among other things, seen that even in the last flood, the town of Karlovac, how successful it is to defend this year because it was planned, box barriers were set up and in this way it is not in a way that we protect the town of Karlovac, but also suburban settlements. So I'm very glad that we can all agree, that we need this, that this is a strategic project, we all need to be clear, that we won't be able to completely avoid the floods in 100% volume, but in a large number of cases, they will shrink. And I believe that in this way the residents of my county can sleep peacefully, and not that with every sinking snow, with every heavy rain they will have to fear, whether they will have to leave their homes tomorrow or wake up tomorrow with a flooded ground floor and first floor. So thank you again for your efforts. We believe that by the end of 2013, you will really build this flood defense system. And that in this way, you will prevent all of them and protect the property of the citizens and thus the lives of the people themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105004	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željki Josic, next debate, dear colleague Ivan Šuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105005	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. I also welcome the adoption of this law, only here at the outset should one sentence be added to the assessment, the necessary funds for the construction of these facilities will be provided in the budget of Croatian Waters and other sources, then this would be even stronger. But in any case, this lex specialis law certainly cheered all the residents of this Carlovec to Posavina, practically to Jasenovac. Because I'm going to be talking to my colleague Jelkovac about that part of Karlovac, my colleague Josic was talking about Sisak Moslavina, and I'm going to cover this Sisak touropoly and posavian part and then we're going to cover it up, and then we're going to round it up, and then we're going to sum up this whole problem. However, when we talk about this problem, then 2 things must not be ignored in any way, these are climate change and blue areas. I'm just talking in this huge, posavian, sucking part, so we have the Turopoly Lug, we have the Odan field and the Lonjsko field, these were once the plans of the area. But the water in those blue areas was brought in by certain water streams, which are no longer present. By building the first phase of the opera channel Sava-Odra-Sava which unfortunately... In the first stage of 40 and a few years, many of the waterways from the Vukomeric Gorica have closed down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The water that comes from the river Odre, also lost some of its water streams and we came to the fact that Letovanovic was blue from the coastal waters. However, there is something else that I want to say clearly here, and I don't think we should ignore it in any way, and for that we are to blame ourselves, not this government, not the past government, but simply some other concepts, which is a ban on sanding or gravel in the river Buy and River Savi. I can understand everything. But as long as I've known about myself and since I've been walking past the river hunt, there's always been a big pile to say the gravel that was coming out of the Sava River, it's just a river that brings it to us. The Kupa River in the summer months, practically from Jamnica acid to Poposki, you can't go with a simple boat, because you have saddles and those that have risen so much from the sand, that simply something that could be a beautiful, tourist offer is gone. And not to say that the waterbed of the Kupe River must have gone up by three feet, three feet and a half and reduced at the end of the space in which that water should be. I am particularly pleased and think that the citizens of the great, Turopoly Posavina and Čička Poljana will cheer up this provision in art. 3. in the last item of construction... The embankment from the aberrant canal of Odra to the savash dikes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's where you should say from Velesevec to Susha and look at the government's conclusions from the 10th month. In 2010, when the break-in of Sava took place, practically the devastation in Lekneno and when one part of the area of the town of Velika Gorica and the area of the municipality of Orla was flooded. Then certain conclusions were made, which unfortunately, after a change of government disappeared from light and were pushed somewhere into the background, which is to solve the problem of that road. Because you have complete traffic from Velika Gorica to practically mammalic Posavina is going down the plains of the Sava dikes. There's no more vans and ton-and-a-half trucks on that Sava dikes. You have agricultural holdings there and you have certain works, and that's where trucks of 20, 30, 40 meters are driven, and what that rash looks like and what its structure and strength is, that's the question. But then the government made a decision to build a road with the hillside of the village of Kuča with the rush of the Sava-Odra-Sava canal. And which, when we go there in our section to the village of Veleshevec, would practically be something similar to what you're talking about that transferive rash. And in this way we would make one protection against the water coming from Odransko Polje, another thing, Turopoljska Pavina and part of this Sisak Posavina, would practically bring both highways and Velika Gorica, Zagreb, because it is a far closer road than to go this way. So there have been some plans since before, that have contributed to this. And the other thing, I'm not an expert on it, but I just want to say because I see when some things happen, I think Odra-Sava's waste channel, actually Sava-Odra-Sava can be used in the opposite direction. Because you have multiple cases of snow melting in Gorski Kotar raising the water supply of Kupa and those of 4 carlovska beauty, and in such a way comes a large amount in Kupa which Odra and Sava later cannot swallow and the blueing of the area is happening, what counterpart Josic was saying to the municipalities of Lekenik. And let's say the Sava waterway in Zagreb is such that you have no spills at all. In the past 20 years, you may have had 3, 4 spills of Sava over that embankment that has been brought down to a certain level into the Sava-Odra-Sava channel. So it can happen that this Sava-Odra-Sava channel can be used in the opposite direction to pick up some of those waters from Audrey and virtually neither will anyone else be threatened but that way we will solve this problem. I think the making of this cross-versal embankment can work it out. I'm saying, I'm not an expert on it, it's lay, this is the thinking of a man who lives in that area who's just been living with these people all these years because I feel sorry for the people in Chicago Poland, I have to say it here as a man who's lived with these people for years and he's known them for years, I'm sorry for them, they arrange it for their own and just that water that nobody expects there, somewhere from Sisko's area over Audrey and that of that dead canal of Audrey. You have Audrey who has... in Čička Poljana from which the water is poured into the Sava-Odra canal and remains that dead so corretically or old river Odre trough and with that old trough comes water and blue Čička Poljana. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that we can't do something there in Veleshevec, it's simply not a large amount of water, but it's an extremely big trauma for these people. I'm saying, my colleagues were talking about another area, and I just have to say something about this huge area because it can be solved without any big problems. And finally, this whole story without a final solution to the Sava-Odra-Sava canal, along with this discharge channel that we have in Karlovac, Cupa-Cup, I don't think we can solve. Because then we're going to use the potentials of the surface and this derelict canal in Karlovac and this derelict Sava-Odra-Sava power as a space where that excess water will enter and not blue these areas. And finally, another thing, the Sisak-Popjac road. So Lonjsko Polje as a blue area. We must not because Lonjsko polje is a blue area and protects a part of urban violence to stop communication from part of Moslavina with Sisak. It's simple, and that road has to go up a few meters. And then we're, we can use that road as a natural embankment and at the same time we won't have a traffic break when they simply get together in the Lonjski and Odran fields and have nowhere else to go. Sometimes it happens that the water supply of Sava is so high that what is collected in 4 rivers in Karlovac, it eventually gathers in Sisak Sava cannot be swallowed and it simply has to be made an alternative blue area. But if you leave an alternative blue area, it doesn't necessarily mean that one part of the county must be cut off from its centre. Here it is, once again, the Minister of Congratulations and commendation for the passing of this law. All of us who discuss today on behalf of those who live in this area and experience every year trauma, especially colleagues and colleagues from Karlovac and me who are with the people of Letovanić, you know that song Letovanovic is beautiful but unfortunately in the autumn and spring months sad when half of Letovanić is flooded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105006	I thank Mr. Shuker. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Liposcak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105007	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister with her associate. Here is the proposal for a law on flood protection project in the river Kupa and, in fact, the main objective of this project, this legal project is exactly the protection of citizens and the permanent protection of all those citizens living in the river Kupa, who live in the area of Karlovska, Sisak-Moslavina and Zagreb County. As important as this project is to us, this legal framework tells us, and the fact that it actually directly includes more than 23 thousand people, 23 thousand residents who are actually daily, are directly threatened in these months by both floods and floods themselves. It is expected that this legislative proposal or the implementation of this project will reduce the number of people at risk by more than 90% and I think that this is the goal that we should all be encouraged to implement this as soon as possible. Personally, I find the biggest challenge in the implementation of this project to be property legal relations. As we have seen in the bill, there is a provision for the purchase and expropriation of about 15,000 particles, of which there are as many as 11,000 particles in Karlovac County. And I think that's one reason to approach this regulation to speed up the preparation and implementation of this project. Believe me, ministers, the people on the ground that we talk to every day and talk about very well welcome this project, this legal solution and all the solutions that go in this direction. What they need least is politicians who come every year, every time they flood, pat them on the shoulders, tap them in the noises through that water and tell them they'll be all right and they'll do everything they can and then they'll leave and then they'll show up again in the next flood. People on the ground, people who are, living with floods and living by water, need concrete solutions and solutions that lead to certain shifts. As a resident of both the Carlovina County and as a born Ogulinac, I will look back on the situation just over a year ago on September 2017 when Ogulin hit one of the worst floods in the last few decades. And then, during the period of the flood, we were reminded by Prime Minister Plenkovic with ministers and Bozinović, Krstičević, and it seems to me that you too were in Ogulin, and we were given the promise from Prime Minister Plenkovic that defence and protection from the floods of Karlović County would become a strategic document, and the director of Croatian Waters Mr Đurović had promised to step up the work on making retentions in Ogulin, or in Ogulinska Hreljin, and then I also sought a break in HS and primarily urged that this would be done as soon as possible and that, if necessary, more people at all levels, government, ministries, even in local regional self-government units to address property relations as soon as possible, in a better way and to bring this project to an end. True, I was also concerned that it might remain a dead letter on paper, but here, today with a one - year delay, I am pleased to conclude that it did not remain a dead letter on paper and that the shifts are very visible. We see for ourselves that the defence against floods, not only of the Carlovina County, but also of the Sisak Moslavina and Zagreb with this legal solution is indeed becoming not only a strategic project, but is actually getting one legal, its own framework. Ogulinic retention is in the final stage, actually, we expect the first shovel in the final work. The Ogulinian model of solving property relations has proved to be very good and very effective. And this is exactly the kind of concrete and clear and implementing things in the field ministers bring and bring optimism to people, and that is why I thank you once again on behalf of all the people who are in these blue areas and I welcome this legislative proposal, but also the work of the Government, the Ministry, and I would like to stress the work of our counties and mayors who were involved in this, the Karlovak, Sisak Moslavska and Zagreb County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105008	I thank my esteemed colleague, Liposchak. Next debate, dear colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105009	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, the distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Karlovac is the largest city in the Republic of Croatia that has not been adequately resolved to protect the defence against the flood or the only major city that has not been solved and almost incredible sounds that, the fact that the city located on 4 rivers has no resolved flood protection. Unfortunately, it is true, and precisely because of this fact from year to year, they threaten floods or worse, and they flood and happen. In fact, drastic hydrological opportunities have resulted in 10 phenomena of major waterways in the last 4 years for which flood defence measures have also been envisaged. The damages are huge, measures are being taken in million amounts at annual level, and residents are rightly afraid of new floods. It is an obligation for the state to ensure the safety of life of property, protect its citizens from natural disasters, and protecting citizens from the floods of the Karlovac and Sisak Moslavina County is an obligation and priority. The very fact that a complete protection system has not been built so far against the adverse effects of the waters of this area, says that it is indeed a complex and complex procedure. Those who, whether or not they are projected into flood protection projects know how complex these projects really are. In addition to large structural building challenging projects, it is about projects that are in preparation and are particularly demanding. I think that each of us knows how much time it takes for a valid permit for a residential facility, for a slightly larger economic facility, it takes a few years, and you can imagine how much paperwork it takes to do for a serious flood protection project, like this one in the Kupa River Basin. In this case, this is about one line project that is 140 km long inflows with other requirements of buildings, pumping stations, bulkheads and other objects. Projects are being dealt with in a rural area where agricultural land is the only way to solve it, but when we come to an urban part such as the town of Karlovac, Sisak, it is an extremely demanding job. We heard that in order to implement a flood protection project in the river Kupa, 15 000 properties must be resolved and bought. I don't think the people of the Karlovac area have any more time or patience to wait one day, and not what it's like to wait for the validity of the building permit until the start of the project. I therefore welcome this proposal of the Law on the Flood Protection Project in the Kupa River Basin, which will significantly accelerate the project implementation process. The law lays down specific rules that deviate from certain provisions, we would say, goes over critical points, and remains in spirit, principle, and meaning of these laws. So, by the end of the project, all necessary documentation under the applicable laws will be drawn up as well as for all other construction facilities. In the implementation of the project, it will be possible to move on the basis of this law, based on a major project that must be harmonised, of course, with the planning documentation, so no building permit will be necessary because the urgency of the implementation of the project is crucial for the safety of citizens, and especially since this project requires and extremely large financial resources, and by adopting this law will arrive for European funds by 2019, then this project worth 900 million kuna with 85% of the funds will be financed by European funds. This law also allows... Construction. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We heard from the minister that this construction on certain shares and started, I think it's good because we know how much time it takes for both public procurement and for the execution of such buildings, and of course it's good to move into it because the EU recognises the costs of previous periods. It is important to note that this emergency law applies only to a flood protection project in the river Kupa, not to other construction projects. In order to obtain, or withdraw, European means of compliance with legislative regulations and regulations remain still, only in this individual case, as I have previously said, this matter is resolved during the implementation of the project. Speaking of administrative obstacles to the implementation of this project today, I must point out that this suffocation with the papers is Croatian indeed. According to the known list of DOING BUSINESS, the World Bank’s ranking list of countries with a favourable business regulation of the Republic of Croatia does not stand exactly as we would like. This raises new questions for this home in which we must watch how to legally simplify the administration and ensure that entrepreneurs and investors have a favourable business climate. Progress can be made with a favourable business regulation not to say that greater GDP growth depends on facilitating business for the economy and enabling simplicity in the implementation of the projects. I believe that for the implementation of such complex projects, especially those financed from European funds, where we need to prepare and implement ourselves in a short time, withdraw significant funds from the European Funds, one such law that would speed up the start of the implementation of the project, this Law is a good template for the idea, and that is what many colleagues and colleagues who spoke of this before me. Due to climate change, extreme weather conditions have become our reality, the danger of higher rains, more severe rainfalls, and thus the floods have increased multiple times. Therefore, the Karlovcans must not live in fear of new high water stops and it is indeed high time by emergency procedure to provide preconditions for the implementation of this project, because life with 4 rivers must not be dangerous, it must be safe, healthy and pleasant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105010	I'd like to thank my colleague, Cossic. We have a replica. Dear Mr. Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleague Cosic. You have described everything well and welcomed the Law, which I welcome, on the protection against the flood, and I hope that all the infrastructures that will be built will be to help protect us from the flood, but I would like to stress that by building the flood we will not solve 100% of what is needed to clean up the trough, as well as fellow Shuker has spoken, and you have mentioned to us, the swelling of our rivers in the crusts from one foot to the next, and even up to two, it is necessary to clean up the riverbeds and thus enable more flow capacity in those rivers, without that we will not generally solve the problem, and I believe that you understand it as a profession that works on Savi, on Drava, on the Danube, on the Buy, and on all other rivers, I believe that the necessity that there is a need for cleaning of the waterbeds, primarily necessary to be realized and through this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105012	I thank my colleague Djakic. Reply from fellow Cosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105013	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. In fact, building these dikes certainly won't eliminate the threat of flood defense in these areas, it's, uh, these dikes will provide, meaning the implementation of definitely 100-year-old large water plus one superfluous. All those barriers and all that are in the waterway are certainly interference, uh, interference, or river flow and the danger of flood defense, so there is also, therefore, application. Rivers, through and through, and oscillating water, small, large waters, carry this application and create certain springs, which can damage the coast, on one side or on the other, so that care must be taken about it, especially on the part where we have a waterway, because the rivers, including the Kupa River, have partly a waterway, there must certainly be applied, because we are obliged to maintain this waterway by international contracts and of course help our entrepreneurs with these deals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105014	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Cosic. On behalf of the SDP Club, the final debate was held by a respected colleague, Michael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105015	Dear Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think we should distinguish two things with this proposal. One problem, therefore, is the threat of people, human lives and their assets from the flood, that is one thing, and the resolution of this problem, which is evident, especially if we remember those catastrophic floods in 2014 and 2015, when a lot of material assets were actually injured, of course, and human lives were threatened, and so it is safe to welcome that they move towards solving such a problem. But the second is this legislative proposal, which in my opinion shows in fact one defeat of the Croatian administration and the management of such a project. So if the production of study documentation and completed in 2016, in March, means early 2016, the question of what has been done so far is raised? So, why was this project standing? Are the reasons for any legal obstacles and are we going to speed up these processes with this legal solution or not? So, what's the real cause? So this Law does not even prescribe clear deadlines, and regardless of what is yet in 2014, so in the Operational Programme Cohesion and Competitiveness, funds are provided for this very project. So I think it's a waste of time to get into that project. However, again, the fact that this Law, regardless of the criticisms that can be made, should be supported, for if this will speed up the problem, then one such proposal should be supported. But I think this is an opportunity to ask ourselves whether other projects, water projects, or projects in the field of environmental protection are generally due to poor regulation, and whether we are going to adopt a new law for each single large infrastructure project, a special law, or if there is one systemic problem that should then be seen comprehensively and seen why, from 2016 to today, projects, large infrastructure projects, from waste management, and even if you want from the water economy, are in a certain stagnation. Is the problem, are the legal regulations general or do we have to pass a special law for each individual project? When we speak, here colleagues have talked earlier about, how important it is to clean up, move application from the river, and so on, we have had one special thematic session on this subject and one of the conclusions is that we will not move on this matter until the Ministry of State Water, together with the State Hydrometeorological Institute, implements and completes the project of recording the situation of our river primarily Sava, and then the Cups, in order to really assess whether there is this surplus application or not, because at this point, if there is no real state of these rivers, you cannot conclude on one smaller part of the river whether this application is excess or this surplus should therefore be distributed along the river itself or should be extracted or can be economically exploited. As long as we don't actually have the whole story here stagnating. Finally, the SDP Club will support this law with a note, this bill, noting that this is certainly not a comprehensive solution to all problems, especially in terms of flood protection in general in Croatia, and perhaps it is time to make one complete revision of all those regulations that clearly impair these projects because this law shows, this proposal shows that our entire system is not working. So, OK, if this is it, this proposal speeds up this concrete project and solves the problem of people living in the area of the Kupa River Basin, but we're going to parallelly review all the regulations that are then obviously holding back those other projects that are related to flood protection in some other plums. in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105016	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dragonovich, for this final word. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Tomislav Ćoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, at the very end on behalf of the promoter and, on behalf of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, allow, above all, all the clubs and colleagues of the parliamentary representatives who have been exposed during this morning to thank you for the truly constructive reactions and suggestions made regarding this law. I am pleased that it is the Croatian Parliament, or those who have discussed this proposal, that they have recognised the importance of this law or the project of flood protection in the banks of the river Kupa and that they have pointed out the fact and agreed in the end with us, with the promoter that this is a legal proposal or a path that should be addressed to this problem. As for certain suggestions that have been taken into account, in the light of the proposal with an additional example of this administrative discharge in the context of implementation, we will certainly consider them. With regard to ideas or proposals that have come on several sides on a legal basis that would allow perhaps a slightly more agile access to all water-communal projects in the Republic of Croatia and that is something to think about. In any case, the project of protection against the floods of the Kupa River, all that it carries through its 11 stages, its financial moment of more than 900 million kuna, as I cited in my opening debate, but above all the fact that by the end of 2023, we finally protect our citizens and citizens in the area of Karlovac County, Sisak-Moslavina County, or part of Zagreb County, is what I would like to underline once again. I am glad that all the assembly clubs have recognized this proposal once again, that it will support it, it is indeed a proposal which, in itself and a project that I carry only positively, I would say externally and finally that will lead to a solution to the problem that has been straining our country for years. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105018	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Coric for this final word. This is what we are, and we have a replica, and we have a replica, and I'm sorry. Dear colleague Djakic, please. ... OK, here you go, Mrs. Peric. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105019	Thank you very much, Vice President, and I would like to express the satisfaction of bringing this kind of lex specialis and I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy has added this project to the list of strategic investment projects. So, this government has recognized this and where happiness is that such projects have been recognized before, and if such lex specialis have been brought forward, so far so much has been solved and without always trying to make a comprehensive record, here is something that has been repeated for decades and is going towards a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105020	Thank you, dear colleague. The next replica, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105021	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, so well-respected ministers with a co-worker, thank you for this project and my replica refers only to what I would like to hear with these clusters in our rivers, say in Kupa, Savi, Dravi where there are hydrographic scans that clearly showed that the trough of our rivers has risen up to one and a half feet and even two and that it is necessary to clean up these corridors, as a set of projects for the whole country not only for this special law. I hope we don't build up the dikes to protect ourselves from the floods because it wouldn't make sense. Clearing the troughs and increasing the capacity of the riverbeds is certainly a more concrete proposal that we must take into account and regardless of environmental protection, against the opposition of all those who protect birds the necessity of cleaning the trough exists and please tell us what We'll... [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Djakić.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105022	Minister Coric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105023	I thank Mr Djakic, indeed Mr Djakic, for your concern for the riverbeds and for the state of our rivers. As regards the specific Sava and Drava, in cooperation with the Agency, Croatia's waters have already conducted studies or analyses, and in a three-year period there are, therefore, critical points, of course, on these two water streams and over a three-year period already established some indicative quantities, or areas in which water treatment must occur. As far as the Kupa River is concerned, there is a more complex situation since a good part of that water flow in the Sisak Moslavina County area, this water stream, at least according to the data or according to the current state, is not a waterway where it is possible to go into the cleaning of the trough first, a visa for the decision that has been made by the competent authorities of the Sisak Moslavina County in the context of protection Thank you very much. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105024	I thank the Honorable Minister. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105025	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. What I failed to say in the debate on behalf of the club, I'd like to say, although it's already procedurally late. Given the complexity of the proceedings of all those administrative actions still pending after the adoption of this law, it may have been missed now, I see no reason why this law, such a type of law, did not go according to an emergency procedure in one reading with the final bill. It is precisely for the reason that even so one message of necessity, urgency, start-up or follow-up where you care about and all the preparatory actions of the study etc. So, I don't see any reason for the future if there's going to be a need for that kind of law, why aren't you going into emergency procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105026	Thank you, Minister Coric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105027	Thank you very much for asking, Agent Batinić. So, the fact that this law goes into 2 readings gives us enough time, first of all to inform citizens, whose particles will go into the power of finally their property on one side in the coming period. On the other hand, we hold that regardless of whether it goes into one or two readings, this legislative proposal that if all the other stages of the project are done in time that by the end of 2023 it will be possible to complete these 11 stages of which we have spoken, the project and finally withdraw funds from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105028	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I would like to conclude the debate and thank again the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Mr Tomislav Ćorić and his assistant Mrs Elizabeth Kos for the reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105029	Proposal for a Law on flood protection against floods in the river Kupa, first reading, P.Z. Number 461. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a Law on Flood Protection in the Coupa River Basin and second, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes of 121 A.D., 4 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105030	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the island law, second reading of P.Z. Number 413. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate by virtue of Article 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure. 197. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I would like to call on the representative of the proposed regional development minister in the EU fund, Mrs. Gabrielo Žalac, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please. Before that, we have Mrs. Sonja Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105031	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow ministers, I would like to request a 10-minute break on the subject of the Island Act so that the Mosta Club can consult on a new law, given that the law is more like political certifications than clear and concrete provisions. Since the law has a number of sublegal acts to be adopted within 180, 90 or two years and a year of programme, the law has 10 Regulations, one Decision, one National Plan, two State Programmes, two Programmes and one Development Plan. The law is a highly future document that clearly and undefinedly speaks about the current situation on the islands. We are also interested in when it is planned to hire island coordinators since the local self-government units themselves will only bring development strategies to their representative bodies in 2021, so I ask you to grant us a break of 10 minutes, so that we can further consult, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105032	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sonja Cikotic. Dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105033	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honored Minister with an associate, equally in the name of the club Glass and HSU, please pause for 10 minutes, it is about the Island Act. It is an extremely important and important law, which is here in front of us in another reading. We expected at the club Glass and HSU a certain shift between the first and second readings in relation to operationality, as opposed to just not being a wish list. Unfortunately, there are other wish lists in the law that could be further implemented, in order to be operational, we need to bring in a series of sublegal acts that will not come into this House, so we will not be able to discuss it and see what it is. The island’s co-ordinators were equally contention in their first reading. We wanted to know how many there are, because one, roughly, pays one is about $150,000.00. We're sure if they're going to be 10 at the level of a year, then that amount that would be for their salaries would be much better invested, say, in the recovery of waste on the islands. It is an extremely important and important law that the government received and special attention, so that we at the Glass and HSU Club want to discuss it once more and see that our views would be clear and unequivocal about the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105034	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dark Taritash. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105035	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and also, on behalf of the SDP Club, I am looking for a break to consult on one issue, which I do not consider to be well solved despite the many issues that this law brings, and which promotes the safe quality of life on the islands. We feel and deeply dissatisfied that the proposer has in no way appreciated the numerous comments made by the population from the Kresko Lošinj region of Pomorje Goranj County, despite the promises made both in Opatija and on the sidelines of the conference, islands and in Hvar, when it comes to this law, and regarding the problems of allohton savages on the island of Cres, which currently endangers the safety of the island's inhabitants, domestic animals, property and, of course, agricultural activities. Because about 15 years ago in the Cresca Lošinj Islands, there were 25-30 thousand sheep today there are 12,000 and 5 times as many wild pigs. Although according to all the regulations, according to all the strategies, even that strategy on the development of the island from the '90s. The island law had to be above all other laws, as well as the Hunting Act, the current proposal, which did not respect any objections from the Kresko Lošinj area, continues to give priority to the Hunting Act, not the Island Act. And it does not ensure the safety of the population, the security of the property, and agricultural production on the island of Cres as it favours allohton savages on Cres rather than protecting sheep in the Cresian Lošinj area. Well, that's why I'm asking for a break, to consult further.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105036	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, dear colleague Josip Boric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105037	Thank you very much, Vice President. We at the HDZ Club are also looking for a break, since we see that colleagues from other clubs, from the opposition, are trying already, meaning before the debate itself, to present the law in a different light that does not correspond to the truth. We will, through our debate, be able to argue, that this is a very good law, that we will make clear views. Of course, right now we're going to divide it between us here at the club, just to give them an argument, all of what we're saying is false. This isn't no P.R. The document, however, takes more than a year of serious work, in collaboration with a number of local self-government leaders, led by the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU, which has returned to its composition precisely for the islands, which, right now speaking about the law, have abolished while in power and which are islanders, surely guarantees more rights in the future than they had through the current law, guarantees many of the assistance that will continue. And clearly already now projected through the amounts in the national budget for 2019, '20. and '21. amounts that are much bigger than they've been before. So we'll make it very clear, through the club but also through individual discussions, that some other clubs here are dealing with P.R. the activities and not to understand the absolute island problem. And I'm saying, I'm going to show it to the debate on behalf of the club and the individual who's telling the truth and who the islanders will understand better today after the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105038	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. I welcome you to the gallery, students and students of the crafts school from Koprivnica and their professors and professors, welcome and pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. ... Since a lot of you called for a break and to see that there is a need for further debate, I'm setting a break until 12:00. [[Applause.]] [[It's 11:00.35.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.02 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session on behalf of the proposing respected Minister of Regional Development and European Union funds, Mrs Gabriela Žalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105040	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, here I must admit that I am surprised by this break of yours because in the first reading everyone was in favour and abstention and no one was against, and especially when I talk about the parent committee that you are also a member of Mrs. Čikotić, we had unanimous adoption so for, and especially when we talk about that and on all the committees there was no one against. So here I think it is time to present what is our final draft of the bill that we have really worked systematically on where everyone in the working group participated, all of our representatives actually of the population from the Croatian islands and the island council and the movement of the island and all those who participated in the public debate. We are the only country in Europe in the Republic of Croatia, in the European Union when we talk about having a special island law, the old law is from 1999 and what is important to say is that after 20 years it was time to make a legal change. 1.244 islands, islets and rocks in the Republic of Croatia are certainly our pearls of the Adriatic that we need to take care of. The so far Island Law has also received significant results, and this is also to be discussed here today in the Assembly, a billion and 700 million kuna in 2017 the latest report says about the capital investments of all state and public companies. When we talk about the way the Island Act and its measures contribute to the development of the island and to a greater number of inhabitants on Croatian islands, it is something that you Parliamentarians need to know. 19 inhabited islands are growing according to the 2011 census compared to 2001 from 10% from 46,992 inhabitants to 51,720 inhabitants I am deeply convinced that we will make these measures attractive islands for settlement and for the rest of the people in the area. When we talk about a brief review of how we should take care of island development in the period 2004 to 2017, a total of 22 billion kunas have been invested, the largest share of which has an economy, 5 billion kunas, then measures relating to transport links and transport infrastructure, but of course they are also subsidies and support, in municipal infrastructure through tax policy, environmental protection, energy and electronics, tourism, education, health, culture, social care. Only the Authority of the Islands has invested 3.2 billion kuna in the period 1995 to 2017, and you, unfortunately, have abolished the Board of Islands in the term of your government, we have returned it as we arrive at this duty because we believe that we need to take special care of our islands. When we talk about European funds and I want to point out today it is a billion and a half kuna invested for 64 island projects, it is 16 islands plus Peljesac peninsula, but according to the Island Act it also has island status. The development of the island community from the 1990s to today and the development of strategic orientations of safe objectives and priorities of national policies will take place through these under the legal acts for which I look forward to the implementation mechanisms and very quickly visible right on the ground. What we want to do is safely follow in 2016 what is happening at European Union level, resulting in the adoption of a European Parliament resolution on the particular situation of the island. What is even more important is that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in Article 174, islands are defined as one of the regions in a way that is weaker, which are exposed to serious and permanent, therefore, to natural or demographic difficulties, and therefore, of course, it gives you the justification that we do all we need, but of course, in accordance with Article 52 of the Constitution, which particularly stresses the need for special protection of the island. We as the Ministry, indeed, and through the island council, and through a wider discussion in 2 readings, I believe we discussed everything that was open and what was actually sent to us through remarks, we appreciated it. The new law is a set of concrete measures that will certainly bring both demographic and economic revitalisation of the island. With our islands what was, in 1999, in the old Law, and the measures that are good, of course we left them and that we consider that some more, we need to improve. When we talk about investing in transport, municipal, social infrastructure, the connection of the island, the inter-island connection that we should certainly take into account in the next financial period, you could also see after the Council of Government how many contracts we have signed when we talk about European funds, this is exactly what it refers to. We subsidise public island transport, also water-supply support for island employers, here we are now in the House after the opening of the Christmas fair of Croatian island products which I consider an extremely valuable contribution through the measure contained in our Law. In addition, subsidisation of water supplies, except for islanders, the price of water is also subsidized for island employers. Support to island employers, which certainly records these 5 billion kunas that we have invested in strengthening activities relating to legal persons in this past time. What the goals of the new law are, surely, is coherence and coherence with what is European policy today. Also, the introduction of new modern mechanisms that will fit our, also the Law relating to strategic planning and development management where we will finally have, in a way, a hierarchy of documents, as Croatia should have had 27 years ago. Of course, we are talking about developmental specificities, as well as the particular situation of the island and strengthening, and better involvement of all stakeholders who need to take care of development, and above all we would point out the island co-ordinators, we will certainly see care, pay people from the European budget and give them wages that will certainly be better than what it would be to be hired by local self-government units, in some ways on our own, we think that in development agencies we need to hire people who need to take care that on every island projects happen, and not that there is a situation for certain projects to happen, not on others, I think that this is in accordance with both the Regional Development Act and all that we have done when we talk about the ground. When we talk about the proposals and topics proposed by the members of the Island Council, and also of the island community, I think that through these measures that I am about to list, we have certainly made progress. This is the introduction of concepts of islandhood, a set of geographical, social, historical, economic and ecological specificities, resulting from the complete environment of the sea, the collection of catastrus and land books that we have talked about a lot, and I think that this is certainly strategic importance for the development of Croatian islands, the removal of waste from the island, the possibility of co-financing of equally acceptable costs of transporting waste with islands on land, the amount of funds that have been established by general acts by legal persons with public powers responsible for the operation of waste, the exploitation of mineral raw materials on islands that enable us to safely, for the production of building material, industrial processing on islands, we also have a measure that we can manage for the purpose of more economic construction, because we know that transport is precisely on islands, which is an absolute problem when we talk about costs, therefore, of construction. When we talk about a development agreement based on the Slavonia project, which the government is working on, we will absolutely make sure that in the new financial perspective, we are already starting with the islanders to program how the development agreement looks, and that means what? The harmonisation of exactly the need of terrain with ministries, state and public enterprises, of course when it happens, then all these projects are planned on time, and that's how we actually determine strategic projects of island development. Sustainable development by the concept of smart islands is already, in some ways, satisfied with what is already happening in some of our islands, when we talk about energy, when we talk about smart islands, about energy independence, about water desalinisation projects, about everything that islands can do in some way sustainable. New island classification models, island classification according to the geographical criteria, territorial jurisdiction in 7 of our coastal island County areas, according to the distance from land, coastal, canal, and coastal and bridged islands, a group of islands with a specific location, where there was a situation where some units of local self-government were located on land. The island's development indicators, meaning the island's evaluation, the island's development indicators, and based on them, are being classified as undeveloped, less developed and developed islands, and we've talked a lot about it in our, in some way, working groups, in all possible formats that could have been maintained in our ministry. What is most important, and this is a new approach to strategic planning of island development, which is the National Plan, the island's annual programme, the introduction of island coordinators, the establishment of island priority and urban areas, the extension of the use of the island's identity card to which we want absolutely in this existing format that exists, to place all measures to facilitate the supervision and implementation of everything we've been saying. The management of savages and the removal of invasive alien species on islands, we have heard how the Hunting Law and everything that is actually above this island law, we have debated very much, but I think that through therefore the hunting economic activity this problem will also be solved over time, we have debated a lot. There is no need to ignore and encourage the development of civil society, cooperative and social entrepreneurship on our islands where, in cooperation with other authorities of the state administration, we take care of how economic and social policy measures are designed to improve development. What is important and the new measures we have defined in this Law is the adoption of a state-run programme of care and coordination, so catastra and land-based books for which we plan to spend 10 million kunas, the management of island waste in a way that exactly wastes is a resource through a circular economy to make out in some way what has long been normal in the EU, island-based self-sustainability and self-sufficiency and strengthening projects that we do to the greatest extent with the Ministry of Environment and Energy. And also with the European Investment Bank, we are currently working on an analysis of the potential that will certainly have a project proposal that will be financed from EU funds above all because I believe that not only from national funds but from European funds, but of course from the Union programme that are also available, we can have increasingly better alternative long-term sustainable and responsible forms of tourism on islands that we certainly need to strengthen in the next period. Exploitation of mineral raw materials, respect and application of measures on islands with a specific position and all that we have drawn with our measures I am sure that through the principles of smart islands will make a new dimension which has not yet been, except on a few islands, in some way a priority. I think this is exactly the law we want to do it all together. When we talk about the implementation of this law for 2019, we have foreseen 195 million kuna in the Republic of Croatia's budget at the positions of the Ministry of Regional Development, 111 million kuna and the remaining funds in the position of the Ministry of Construction, Spatial Planning and, of course, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, which is our most important partner. What the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is doing is implementing measures to subsidise maritime transport and release from the payment of the bridge, so the Krk Bridge. The Ministry of Environmental Protection, Energy and the Fund implementing the waste management measure on islands is also a unit of regional self-government that will participate in the development plans of the island in 7 coastal and local self-government units of local self-government and 8 units of local self-government on land will participate in the development plans of the island that I consider an absolutely implementing mechanism. So far, here is how I have already pointed out the report that we are submitting to the Parliament, and I think it is extremely important, we have included this in other laws that we are preparing, a report on the capital investments of all resolutions, all state-owned public enterprises in a given area, that is a significant number of billions and 700 million kunas. What is certainly important is that this is a law that is very complex, specific, geographical and multi-sectorally affecting all spheres of island life and development. And we are aware that he really owes us as a ministry to coordinate all, therefore, all the ministries of state-owned public enterprises in order to respect the needs of the local community, that is, the island population, which is, in some ways, the priority of me and my people to carry out everything that we have drawn out at the operational level. When we talk about this final bill, it does not differ significantly from the text of the proposal, so the Law on Islands, except that certain provisions of this text of the law are drawn up in accordance with the proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, our parent committee on regional development and EU funds and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, and in accordance with the practically no-technical and legal mistakes observed, and consequently we have completed in relation to the first reading of the following provision, certain provisions that have been given to the addresses of freedom in application are contained in the provisions that will have to be applied as was one of the more frequent remarks of your parliamentary representatives. For example, the words “can bring ” are replaced by the words“ bring. ” The possibility of lending to island investors by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development is prescribed to encourage investment by legal persons, craftsmen, other natural persons carrying out the registered activity that the islands start or expand the activity set out in this law as some of the activities of importance for the economic development of the island supported by the State. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's obligation to report once a year on the implementation of this law. This provision shall also be introduced in order to continue to monitor the effects of this law continuously, given that the same provision is contained and implemented under Article 38 of the applicable Island Act. A provision has also been added, giving the ministry the right to participate in the employment of the island co-ordinator, given that the ministry partially provides financial resources and any other means for its work and we oversee it. I would say that immediately as a percentage of 85% is funded by the EU and 15% in some way by whoever wants to take care of this in their field, and I think it's important to have this legislation. More detailed provisions have been developed regarding the adoption of plans for the development of islands due to the closer determination of island development plans for islands that have one unit of local self-government for multi-unit islands, local self-government for islands with a specific position and since the previous formulation of the provisions was not clear enough when we talk about this view. And we prescribe the adoption of plans for the development of the island for 7 years, at the same time it is important to say that we are, the same is previously missed, and this provision draws closer to the regulation of Article 10(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management, which I mentioned earlier, gives the possibility to draw up and adopt medium-term acts of strategic documents for 5 to 10 years. Finally, the Eastern Development Agreement, which has been renamed to the Development Agreement, has been amended and the provisions governing the way it refers to the provisions of the Regional Development Act in terms of the determination of content, process and conclusion of the Development Agreement for the Croatian Islands. This avoided the possibility of overlapping and collapsing with the provision of Article 23. The law on regional development of the Republic of Croatia governing the Development Agreement. All the other changes just fall into the nomotechnical editing of the text so I really don't see the big difference between the first and second readings. This Law on Islands, the Government of the Republic, systematically and targetedly directs the implementation of the island development policy, and I am pleased that this topic has earned special attention in our government, especially when we talk about the specificities of this area, and especially when we talk about the development of Croatian islands, the development of the economy, the protection of nature and the environment, and of course the improvement of the quality of life of the island population, which would point out as a key feature of all this. It is most sincerely important to me that our islanders are satisfied with our bill and that all those who have had the right to propose them, and of course we have won them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105041	I would like to thank the honourable minister for the additional reasons for the final bill. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105042	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you said that all the islanders had the right to make comments, and that you respected them all, which is unfortunately not true. I believe that this law is indeed an improvement, compared to the law that was passed 20 years ago. However, in one segment you did not listen to the problems of the inhabitants, here is the area, the Cresko Lošinj area. 20 years ago, this problem was solved in a better way, I guess there should be improvements now. At that time, the Law on Islands should also determine island hunting. Hunting economic grounds, for hunting on islands, should be prohibited from the settlement and breeding of gamers, which does not naturally reside on the island and also ensure that hunting does not endanger agricultural activity in any way. Thus, the window of alochton savages and the preservation of sheepmaking cannot be solved by hunting methods. In Primorje Goranj County, 13230 wild boars' throats were caught in 12 years, and there is still a huge problem. And with this law and this solution, you haven't, unfortunately, solved this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105043	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105044	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. She's an honorary minister with a co-worker. I voted in favour of this law in my first reading, and I'm going to vote again, and I think we should help the islanders. But, as you said, so far it's helped with 22 billion kn islands. For 2019, a new € 120 million is foreseen for the islands, for the mountainous mountainous area of €30 million. I claim that on land, in Zagorje, in Slavonia, in Lika, we have a far more isolated area than we have on the islands. We have islands on land. To confirm this I will now tell you in the top 10 most developed municipalities in Croatia, 4 are from the island and 6 are from the coastal area. And in the top 10 least developed municipalities in Croatia, all 10 are from the mainland. In the top 10 most underdeveloped cities in Croatia are all from the like area, Zagorje Slavonia. And I don't mind the islanders, though, but give me a hand... on land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105045	I thank my esteemed colleague, Preleco. The next replica of the esteemed lady. Dear Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105046	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you've been a little surprised that the debate on this bill has begun, but for the past few days, whenever informally on committees boasted by the opposition, he starts with some kind of pauses, pamphlets, and I don't understand why he might want to listen to a debate, he won't let, as soon as he hears the minister's statement of the law, then all the criticism than one really good law, which greets the majority, with these breaks, simply deprives. It's not a problem for me to work longer, but it's a problem, which is that simple parliamentary representatives are helping me to work unqualityly and I really don't know, our citizens and viewers are making it impossible for them to even hear what's in the law and it's become modern lately. And we saw that it happened yesterday and in tax reform, so please, my fellow MPs to be a little bit... let the facts be brought out and we do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105047	I thank my esteemed colleague. I would ask you to replicate the minister on her explanation of the bill. Next replica, respected counterpart Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105048	Dear Minister, I have become a representative issue for you regarding the 195 thousand kuna bagatel procurement, related to the production, says this, a study-making service and or an analysis of the need to implement measures of the new Island Act. So your ministry, whose head you are at, as a central body, which needs to be implemented by public policy, doesn't know how to implement the law, without an analysis of one expert or more of them, for 195 thousand kn. However, through amendments to the law in fact, the procurement plan, it is also crossed. A central information system of island rights, island card worth 460 thousand kn, etc. has also been crossed. So please tell me, in what way is the ministry, because your colleagues, my board, too, have informed me that an analysis is being carried out, that it is already done and how it will be compensated for who worked and who it is that has worked since the answer to the parliamentary question has not been answered, although I have been sending, through President-in-Office a rush. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105049	I thank my esteemed colleague. The next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I'll be in touch where my colleague Prelec has stopped. So if we're talking about facts, then let's talk about islands on land. I am very pleased and we certainly need to take care of our islands, the island population, but also, if you look at me, now the most vulnerable region in Croatia, and this is Slavonia and Baranja and West Srijem, then you will see that the help of this region is very important. And I'm not talking about advice for Slavonia, the famous P.R. a project of this government, after which everything flourished, rather than talking about clear and targeted investments and assistance. Because despite the advice that the government has constantly advertised, people from Slavonia continue to leave, the depopulation in Slavonia is becoming more and more pronounced. I'm glad that some of the islands have increased the population, but it's all a drop in the sea if we look at a wider demographic picture and help these islands on land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105051	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105052	Dear Ministers, I have a question when planning the employment of island coordinators and whether these island co-ordinators will have a decision-making autonomy since you appoint them, whether they will listen to you as executive authority or their citizens. islanders, we now have a case that appeared on the portals of a case in Veli Luka where people rebelled against the construction of a marina and where actually the mayor of one party, the mayor of the other and ignored the messages of their citizens and so my question is whether the island coordinators will be autonomous since you appoint them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105053	I would like to thank the next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105054	Dear Ministers here I would like to commend that in this bill are islands with a specific position since I come from a city and county that has a lot of 8 islands in its composition, and the county is much higher, so these islands were local committees with one legal personality, but the development of these islands and these areas of local committees was not adequate since they actually drew the stage of development of the city of Zadar, which was in any case difficult to develop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105055	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peric. The next replica, respected counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105056	Thank you, dear minister, it is commendable, of course, every time we talk about some new bill that wishes to improve a certain area, so I believe that this bill has also gone that way. However, what I must say is that I come from the area of Primorje and that I know that our colleagues from the island were not quite satisfied with this proposal, and it is precisely about the problem that my colleague Jovanovic pointed out, which is a alocton game, you said that you came from a fair of island products, seems to me earlier, and I fear that you will be able to come more rarely to fairs where some of the island products that we are proud of are lamb and cheese, since the problems to others have escalated that the question of whether we will be able to keep the shepherding in that form, the traditional form in which it was. Well, I'm warning you, there was an opportunity to at least highlight this problem through this law that you missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105057	I thank my esteemed colleague Turini-Djuric. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105058	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, here's the Minister's tactics of non-response, what I particularly care about with regard to 20 billion invested in the islands, that the minister tells us in what way she thinks we're going to stop the trend of emigration, given that the money is determined and invested, and that the effects we see are and I'm interested in whether there's really not enough competence in the ministry to think about ordering a study for 200 thousand kuna almost helping to implement the law, especially because we still have various other bodies, such as the island council there are prominent representatives Boris and Bauk in that, and they can certainly help both Bačić and they can certainly help with their competences, so I'm not even interested in having any good reaction to the citizens to hear what the intention to spend such money in general when there is no need to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105059	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105060	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers, we are extremely pleased that you are here with us today, the case was not when the laws in the first reading were related to assisted areas, mountainous areas and island laws, you were prevented as we were told. Today, however, we will discuss the final proposal of the Island Law, which has been such an old island for 20 years, so we expect it to be that this new one should bring some changes to the improvement in some direction of progress. The European Union Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has 11 officials, 7 assistants from one are in charge of the Department of Islands and recently appointed the 7 assistant, so I still have not received an answer from Minister Žalac for whom the administration is responsible because Mr. Prime Minister of the Government, Prime Minister Mr. Plenkovic, referred the question to her, and I am waiting for that answer. You set up the Department of Islands with great announcements, and all these announcements and material expenditures should be justified, and here we have the Final Proposal of the Island Act. Islands are exposed to serious and lasting natural and demographic difficulties. In Croatia, at least children were born in 100 years this year, the situation on the islands is also faced with demographic difficulties. The adopted Law on Islands in the Government does not meet the demographic challenges facing the islands or islanders. The law does not provide complete housing solutions with the aim of attracting new residents and retaining existing ones. Investments are necessary for the development of the island, we from MOST welcome every positive shift, and at least in the laws that benefit citizens, but this law represents a wish list, guidelines for a pre-election programme here objectively if we look at concrete legal provisions, most often it is about political certifications rather than legal norms. It is important for the public to point out that in many ways the law calls for other regulations, which clearly indicates that it is a list of beautiful wishes that this island administration has summed up in one document. The law does not bring anything important new to the islanders and through this legal solution did not make the islands available to the citizens. It is necessary to make islands available to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia throughout the year and it is necessary to do so as soon as possible and through concrete measures for which financial resources will be provided. You'll see how serious island politics really is. The fact that this is the case also shows that all applicable legal acts remain in force until new ones are adopted, which states that the fact that the islanders do not have much of a new one. The rights they had will continue under this law. The proposal for a new Law on Islands is also explicitly under normised and many important things are left out of it, so we will only be able to see its final effects when the National Development Plan for the island is drawn up for December 2020. The island development plans will be carried out by the representative bodies of the local self-government unit within 180 days of the adoption of the National Plan for the Development of the Island, i.e. 2021. In particular, the introduction of a new bureaucracy in the creation of local island policies is in the eyes. It's actually about new employment, in terms of something that's called the island coordinator. Who are the island coordinators? It is about new officials, bureaucrats, who will be employed under this new island law to coordinate plans and projects on islands. In essence, new employment, additional costs without a specific objective or expected impact. It is clear to all that the descent of such tasks as the coordination of island policies, plans and projects to the official level is not appropriate. Policies, coordinations and plans should be implemented and supervised and supervised by those selected, in the positions where they are elected, at which they can make decisions in which policy direction is to be taken. So, central state bodies. Finally, the whole thing with island coordinators is an impertinent attempt to compensate for the lack of ambition and courage for the reform of territorial reconstruction in the country, as well as in the islands. Data from the new Law on Islands, provided articles clearly show administrative territorial fragmentation. We have a situation where the islands are divided into six, seven, the local self-government unit, which makes it impossible to plan in an important, unique way and solve island problems. You are obviously aware of the same because through the Regional Development Act you promote agreements between counties as a new innovative instrument of regional policy, and in this law you also propose agreements between units of local self-government. So we need a new territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. We need to resolve the island's unresolved property legal situation. Many of our islands still haven't solved the issue of catastra, and thus land books, which are the basic preconditions for economic development. But you've predicted through this bill a program that you intend to bring in within two years. It needs to be done a lot sooner. If the program itself is going to be brought over a period of two years, and you said in your opening statement, that you had predicted 10 million kuna. What are those 10 million kunas going to be spent on if you don't have a program based on which you're going to spend it? There is always a question and infrastructure that is not yet suitable in many islands, and we are under the growing pressure of tourism and tourist season. The fact is that our islands and coastal municipalities must build a infrastructure that is massive and corresponds to the needs of those two months of the main tourist season when the number of persons on the islands is raised and in the 10th century. In the rest of the year, only the cold expensive drive of such a bulky infrastructure is being maintained, and it is extremely expensive. And this burden of construction and maintenance is borne by the local population, not all live in islands, on the island of tourism, so that they benefit from this mass tourism over two years, two months, respectively. This central state must find a solution for municipal services, and it has been accepted that my initiative on the Committee is also possible to replace it from the sea because legislative provisions should be concrete and clear. As far as the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund is concerned, standing, replacing, no longer writing, but the sea, but the means necessary for the implementation of this law do not stand a single figure, no more than 10 kn. Generally, it's long known that life on the island is more expensive than on land. And there is also the phenomenon of the impact of tourism on the price of everyday products. The expressed seasonality of tourism and its massity affect the increase in prices, everything and the question of how long our island population can endure it. It is necessary to make a step for the entire Republic, so that the island here and bring a strategy, a clear strategy for tourism development, and also to consider tax relief for those who may live on islands. It should be noted that the capital things that the state can do for our islands are not regulated by the Island Act at all. For example. The digitisation of public administrations, where islanders, especially those located on more isolated islands or parts of the island, could finally become equal in accessing the administration. As for energy policy on the islands, you mention that you are introducing a smart island, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia recently gave a negative opinion on the Mostov Law on Self-supply of Electricity, which provides for the introduction of microsolars or the introduction of solar panels. It would be good for the entire Republic of Croatia, so for all our citizens, that actually our citizens can become producers of electricity, from consumers to producers. However, you listed the government of which you are a member, stating that this technology is obsolete. Today Maribor has more solar panels than the entire Republic of Croatia, but we find them obsolete even though you predict the use of renewable energy sources in art. 22, if I'm not mistaken, where you name a smart island. What we know and what we would like to know is that we still need to invest in these parts of the Republic of Croatia that have specificities of islands, assisted areas, mountainous mountainous areas, and since your secretary of state is 28.6.2018 on the Committee on Regional Development and European Affairs has said that we will achieve the objectives outlined, we have confirmed enough resources. I suggest you consider a reserve of EUR 406 million and invest additional European funds in those areas that are exposed to specificities. As far as the articles are concerned, I did so last time, here I can again, rule on the methodology and management of the island register is prescribed by the Minister within 180 days, the adoption of a programme of measures through the Island Annual Programme 180 days, the Law is unspecified, not only solves problems, but only transfers them to another government, and this is evident in the development indicators for the islands, instead of giving concrete development indicators for the islands, it is said that island development indicators, the evaluation process, will be prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation and that 180 days since the Law was adopted, that is 6 months. The laws should be concrete and clear, not promising documents. The island coordinators are introduced, their number is determined by the Minister's Decision, meaning not by assessing some business processes, not by assessing certain working hours, the size of the work, but by the decision of the Minister, from Zagreb of course. The Regulation concerning the promotion of the development of civilian associations on islands within 180 days, the methodology of the process of drawing up plans, shall be adopted by the Minister within 180 days. The right to privileged transport is passed by the minister within 180 days. The Regulation will also provide for a full-price fee to be paid by a water carrier or by an auto-cister, up to a full-price difference within 180 days. Regulation on the implementation of the Croatian island product within 180 days. So, talks, so long a deadline actually speaks that these Rules are now in effect and they will be valid until new ones are brought in. Encouraging competitiveness on islands will be resolved through the Regulation, again within 180 days. Preferred right to the bridge crossing, within 180 days. Croatian island product, 180 days. National development plan for the island, until 31.12.2020. The island's development plan will be brought by the representative bodies of the local self-government units within 180 days, meaning from that year 2020. Unsettled land books hinder the development of the island, this government does not solve it, it conveys the problem to another government, as the adoption of the State's programme of arrangements and the harmonisation of cadasters and land books is foreseen within 2 years. Finally, the new Law on Islands and Islands is welcome, but with much more concrete measures. Even such an unambitious law will not immediately come to life, but the whole thing will stretch to the adoption of numerous sublegal acts and regulations, without the possibility of debate in the House. Programmes for a year, two years, some ideas from the Law such as the coordination of unique island projects and plans through island coordinators have no purpose and are doomed. The law goes on to explain the business of island coordinators but does not prescribe island development indicators. Again, citizens will have to bear the salary of new officials. Regulation 10, one Decision, one National Plan, 2 State Programmes, 2 Programmes plain, 1 Development Plan, a total of 17 documents after the adoption of this Act. You are in contact with the islanders, and you are in contact with the club of representatives of MOST with the islanders, as we are here, sending me and the messages, and they say: "The island council and movement of the island of which I am a member do not represent the islanders because we did not have public debates, nor the Parliament on the Law." The population increase is due to the arrival of pensioners from the mainland and the achievement of free tickets. The island coordinators, another form of entanglement, because on many islands there is actually no person who could do the same job, because I guess it should be qualified for that. As far as cooperatives are concerned, who will team up with IZ, in the Salims, the question is how many for an association to need 7 people. This is a nice wish list, we welcome every shift in the MOST Club, we voted YES on the Committee, to go into further procedure so that the public, in front of the public, could also be discussed, so that the professional public could be involved. It's unserious that in the procurement plan you predicted that someone externally, actually, did an analysis of how, which way you would implement the measures of this law, and that's what to say. I hope that the islanders will be pleased, and later the citizens will make their own choices in the way that you have contributed to the development of the island. I would love to see this amount planned for the islands, you see also for the assisted areas, and for those mountainous mountainous areas, because as many islanders are isolated and all, you know that the assisted areas that are mach and in the Dalmatian Zagora, but also in Slavonia, are particularly affected by the economic low activity, and a demographic breakdown, it is simply necessary to do much, much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105061	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sonja Cikotic. The next debate on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105062	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, dear Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here's what I want to say about the final proposal of the Island Act in the second reading. I will not be so bureaucratic or in the way that a colleague from MOST did, because if I were to go back and if I thought that only one detail was enough to make a negative picture of anything, even if they were Croatian islands, we could talk about all the laws we are discussing here every day and in a similar way, so I think that talking about Croatian islands is a good story of Croatian politics and all governments so far. There have been fewer or more of those who have spent it better or worse, but the overall result can be measured and it is visible. So we can't exactly say that in some other areas, which we also stand out as specific, because, if there were some, I say, who are discussing today, which wasn't back in '97. Mr. when people were still gathering, freely thinking and wanting to pay attention to this area, knowing that it is different from some of the other areas we've heard about today, so we say we have islands on the mainland. If we had more areas in Croatia, which have around them or as land on 4 pages. They probably would've devoted themselves to them. So specificity exists and is not comparable to land in any way, because then the state certainly wouldn't have dealt with it. But she also dealt with other areas, such as mountainous mountainous areas, because they were thought to have some geographical features that might need to be helped differently, so that these people in these areas lived easier in those times 15 or 20 years ago. Of course the war in the assisted areas did their part and those areas had their own special laws, as well as the city of Vukovar. When we talk about these people in '97. Sir, they clearly, through a national programme, set up a story that should yield results in future time. After that, the law in '99. and the 2002 amendments. 2006 to today, again the final form of the law 2018 which should valorise what we had, but also be placed in the new time that is ahead of us, which is certainly not the same as it was in '99. Mr. We often like to say that we have many islands, 1244 and that this is our great wealth, which many have sought, long ago, in many wars. Finland, as well as Croatia, has a special law for its islands and certainly pays as much attention to them, and even a higher dose, can be said freely, so they have a certain amount of autonomy, as self-government, on these islands, that they can independently make independent decisions on their own state. For the islands, I say to the islanders, this law is important, but it is certainly not the only law that contributes to their lives, because for them all the laws apply to them, as well as to all the citizens of Rh, whatever we bring into this space. And even if we were to follow this law alone and say that he brought some billion and a half kn, they wouldn't tell the truth. So if we stick to what he writes, which he brings only in his numbers, as numbers, he certainly wouldn't give that much. That's why the story was wide, so the national programme covered a lot of areas, so the law only directed, certain resolutions, to take care of more than we have for certain other areas in the Republic of Croatia. And that is exactly how it could have been through the year that we are now talking about some billion, billions and a half, which are continuously investing in the development of Croatian islands, but also the standard or preservation of the standards of people living in these specific areas. To have a picture, which this law offers, let's go back to seeing what we have in certain areas and what the state has been doing in 20 years to know whether or not we've made a step forward, whether we've stayed in the same area and whether those 20 billion have made better conditions or equal in terms of these on land, or whether we're in something deficient after all. So let's start with not knowing, from the field of education, every big island has the least elementary school, some big islands have high school. Let's say Brač has perhaps the best or specific high school, which is one reality of the Croatian island, which no one else can have and who attend professionally means young people who want to deal with stone work. We have a preschool education system that I can't say is lagging behind the land. Indeed modern kindergartens, modern preschools in apartments suitable for this time, and every local self-government of them in the '50s dedicated this great care because it is her duty. But she didn't do it for the island law, she did it for what she had to do under some other laws. What was done was the pilot of the e-school project on the islands, which began on the big wood, and then continued on all the small islands, Zadar, I don't know, the Sibenik islands, the Losinian islands, Dubrovnik islands. So 10 years ago, in cooperation with Carnet, we established something that we're trying to establish today through the story of a school for life. I'm glad that just at school for life, that in the experimental program we have two elementary schools in Supetar and Balac and two secondary schools in Rab and Veli Luka that run that, either incentivize or try to experimentally enter that program next year, we hope everyone else. When we talk about sports facilities, every big island has a gym. Until about 10 years ago, there were islands, for example, and it was strange for me that the island of Brac had no sports hall and had 7 local self-government and a large number of inhabitants. And today, the big islands have some and two, so they also care about sports infrastructure, so that children have the right conditions to be able to deal with all activities. When we talk about healthcare, a great effort has been put into the health system, through the CF4 programme, all the infirmarys have been restored and new health homes have been built on some islands. So on small islands, all the infirmarys are restored, to a level suitable to provide health care services, in terms of I don't know, a family doctor or some specialist possible activity within these areas. We have health homes as a health care facility for the county homes but we also have the specificity of the island of Korčula which independently has several health homes. When we talk about dialysis, we're up to 2007 or '08. We haven't had a single dialysis system in years. After that, dialysis is available on the islands of Krk, Lošinj, Rab, Brac, Korčula, Hvar. What a help it is for people who had to travel daily to a central county town or a central county facility to save their own life. What were the costs, but a big step was made after all. When we talk about the system of taking care of that gold watch, they're made... almost all the islands, where there was need, if there were no military. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today both large and small islands, so that they can function have a system of helipads. The state invested a lot of money there. When we talk about social care, every big island has a home for older people and Losinj and Rab and Cres and Ugljan and Dugi Otok and Hvar and Korčula even a few, so there is a desire and a care to provide institutionally for the elderly population and it did not come from itself, it is the care of the state, but it was not ordered by the Law on Islands that once prepared state laws, state programs of pardon that should in certain areas devise activities for these islands and total. When we talk about transport infrastructure today we can say that after 20 years we finally have restored and built all the new state roads on islands and well and I am glad when we look at the budget that there is one item inside it is an island road construction programme, state roads on islands. We are in a space where bridges Krk, Pag, Vir, Ciovo, Ciovo has a new bridge since 17.7 this year, there must have been an improvement in traffic towards the island compared to what we had in the season. Only when I remember that we were building a bridge between Pasman and Ugljan, since it was low to enable it to mean a passage uninterrupted by many ships that were driving state lines and couldn't pass because of the low level of that bridge, and that was done. Today, we have connected bridges between the two bridges, but also some that are connected to the mainland. When we talk about the ports of tens and tens of ports have been restored through intervention and state but also the port administrations that are designed as one common system, 50 to 70 million kunas are invested annually to be able to travel properly, we now hear that the islands are increasingly less accessible to the mainland. When you have an orderly port better boat, faster boat, when you have more lines, cheaper price we determine we hear from a club we are less available. And that's not true, the state today has 51 state lines, ferry 24, boat 12, fast-ship 15 and 8 additional that have no obligation to make public announcements, which are mostly in the summer and are more or less conversional. But it makes you happy to see that you from Hvar in the day have several catamarans with whom he comes to Split in an hour. The state costs 40 kunas in conversion to 100 kuna, but it benefits. When we see only an increase in traffic caused by one such system that was arranged in 2011, we had 11.129.000 passengers and 2,800,000 vehicles, today by rebuilding the Adriatic fleet with 15 new ships, catamarans, with one large ship built in 10 years you have 13.5 million passengers and 3,200,000 vehicles means an increase of 500,000 vehicles and 2.5 million passengers. Surely this increase suggests that there is something going on in these islands, that there is economic activity that needs to produce certain results, that I am not talking about municipal infrastructure, that all islands are affected by the construction of a system of draining and water supply where, simply and through agglomerations, only Krk with 400 million kuna invests in environmental and sea protection, and that it can function even better, but it is also available to all others. It's not agglomeration speciality of the island itself. Let's not talk about waste management where for years, for example, in the Zadar Islands, all the waste is driven to the mainland and all the other islands are getting ready to do the same. So there's a system and now this law needs to be upgraded to what we may have noticed that in 10 years it's not good but to bring it to the point of this time that we have now. When we talk only about tourism, but in tourism, 44,000 accommodation units, 3.3 million arrivals and 26 million overnight stays. It is a famous quarter of Croatian tourism, so if we know how much we earn in tourism, we also know how much the islands contribute. And then we, I say, come to the debate and talk about them in one way that I don't think is correct, if we watch what we have. We can't say that we haven't developed that we heard, all indices of 50 local self-government are high, but that's not our advantage right now, we can't go on in many competitions because in this segment we've developed, but what has been offered by the law a special operational program for the next financial period that would touch only islands, but also in a different way valorized that indexation. What's wrong with that and why someone doesn't regret to support it or that we don't again know how to build existing measures in terms of water supply, road crossing, one island product, here's the open fair on Ban Jelačić Square, go down to see what island hands can make, what are the quality of the product, and how they all put together a cluster and when we did that, when we thought it might be 80 in a few years, today 971 product, 297 manufacturers from 24 islands. An example of how others in some areas may need to be joined. No one defends anyone, but there's a state's concern that allows it, here's what made this law possible with a lot of little or very little money. As far as other activities are concerned, what I'm happy about means these are the islands of specific features of the great accent on their development, they've already agreed somehow. Now let's go to the little ones and give them a chance, given that they have a local land environment to follow them more and to allow them more to save their lives there. It's the first task of this law, and I think it's conceptually well-assembled. Whether it's an island development agreement or an island coordinator is the least important thing about what we want to look at differently than what we've had right now, so it's a good division in several levels that can be classified exactly as to who needs to be helped and who needs to be contacted. And when we say here's an institutional framework just for the islands returned to the Ministry of Regional Development of the Island Council, let's not rush the island council with the island council as an association and report to the assembly back into the law because we can continue to discuss the islands here next year. In conclusion, the Island Law is a good continuation of island policy and what we had on Hvar is a good example of how one government is responsible for accessing one area that needs to be helped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105063	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric, for this debate. With this, we've exhausted all the views, we're going back to the agenda. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, esteemed colleague Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105065	.../ The speaker didn't join... the minister with the associate. I will shorten my debate, under the impression of the free word of my fellow Panenic, whom I also thank and join his invitation. I don't know if it makes any sense to convince the law now, especially after my colleague Boric's debate, but I'll just look back at some articles. Article 30 of the right to preferential public maritime transport, I think the solution is good, also related to that inter-island transport. The right to, in fact, the right to water, the supply of water for human consumption on the islands, I think is a correct solution from the final proposal of the Law, but I warn, purely fiscal, legal, paragraph 7, Article 33, of the preceding paragraphs, the Ministry provides transport costs, co-finances the costs of transporting water, but in paragraph 7, you say: "depending on the possibilities and in accordance with the means provided.", which can be associated - There are resources, there is water. No means, no water. – Think about it, you can suggest for yourself or I may intervene with the amendment that the provisions of this article, as they apply to all items previously, to all items previously, are implemented by means of the state budget, in the budget item of the Ministry, and are allocated to the water service provider referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. So depending on the possibilities, you need to delete, because you can really associate if there is money in the budget, there will be both water and water carriers, if there are no funds, no water carriers, therefore there is no water. Think about it. You can submit your own amendment to the amendments to the Proposer. It can be interpreted differently, broadly, you know right there are two ways of interpreting at least. If you're going to do it alone, I'm not going to give you an amendment, if you're going as a Proposer, we'll agree to that. I'd like you to make a statement about that. As far as economic development is concerned, and the description of the activities you have given in the Bill's proposal, and they must take place in accordance with regulations in the area of spatial planning, and environmental and nature protection, are the islands of our special treasure, and so are our external sea border, and you know very well from history, how much, as many foreign rulers of Croatia, have accounted for the development and retention of the population on the island, so in that sense I would only, in that sense, have mentioned vineyardry as one of the activities, which was one of the basic activities of our islands, yes, it is clear to me that you can't in this, let me say Lex specialis to the Law, solve everything, but vineyarding will be solved by the Wine Act, which we have already talked about here. About the protection of our wines and about, in fact, the problem of reducing winemaking in general and the enormous import of foreign questionable quality of wine. What particularly motivates me is that without a reservation we support this final proposal of the Law on behalf of the Club, this is the article 41, which you adopted the proposals from the reading debate and related to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, not to point out further. And especially this government commitment to submit once a year a report on the implementation of the programme. In the end, here's what I said, which is why I'm shortening the debate. The Party of Labour Club and Solidarity and Reformists and Independent Representatives will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105066	Thank you, dear colleague Vardi. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105067	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the SDP Representatives' Club find no reason why they would not support this bill. After 20 years, it may also be time for one to make the Law on Islands, but it should be open and said that this text is also in the first reading and now has more properties that have one declaration, a good declaration, a solid declaration and the fact is that all political will, which the government or parliamentary majority or almost the entire assembly has in the matter of implementing this law, will only be seen when the sublegal acts planned at country level are adopted 16 and at the level of units of local self-government and regional self-government and something more. The fact is also that the reports left as a commitment to the government and, according to this proposal, the law mostly adopted in the assembly were almost unanimity, regardless of who they were and whose government submitted them. The fact is that these discussions always seemed to have been found to have been done, that much more had to be done and that there were also areas that deserved equal care and islands in Croatia. The fact is also that islands are specific to the marked seasonality or different lifestyles during the summer and during the rest of the year, that some see what others consider a lack of the island as an advantage, peace, isolation, etc. And that's why they choose to be on the islands. The fact is that some who are from the island would like to change it and some would not, however, is also the fact that people feel free to choose the place where they want to live and that during this choice of water and all of these criteria that we want to achieve that islands are more attractive to people's lives since today International Day of Tolerance, I have to tell myself personally it's not the problem that someone who wasn't born on the island or who was born on the island is moving to, or that someone who was born on the island, I also have to say that I don't have a problem that someone who's on the island decides not to live on an island but somewhere else where he thinks it's better and comes back once. With regard to these other criteria that are popular today, it is also not important that the island becomes or a settlement on the island a coherent community in which people live peacefully and normally and realize their ambitions or desires whether they are on land or not. Some islands are as close to the mainland as it says so so people are daytime migrants either from land to, either from land to island or from island to land, some islands are simply further away because the geography wanted so they simply can't go on land for one day and go back and do it every day. Some islands are overrun, some are uninhabited and some are occasionally inhabited by all of it, all of it is basically true. Sometimes in a joke he likes to say that the biggest investment on the islands was Austria which is absolutely not true. Therefore, the islands were invested during both the former states and especially during the aftermath of the former state, i.e. the 20th and some billions of kunas invested, which really improved the infrastructure and quality of life and the traffic connection and all that needs to be cared for more and more when talking about islands than the rest of Croatia. Personally, we would prefer that this Department of the Islands in the Ministry of the Sea, and not in the Ministry of Regional Development, the Minister has nothing to do with the person acting as Minister or Minister, but simply such an impression, so the sea is something specific to the islands, and then we, who are from that part of Croatia, simply know that this is the only part of Croatia that this ministry should be particularly concerned about, and when it comes to regional development, then you are simply in charge of taking care of both mountainous areas and less developed areas for the equal development of all regions, and only because of this specificity, if I am able to explain this enough. It is also a fact that some measures in the tax policy by the index of development have been cut off by municipalities and cities on the islands and no compensation has yet been made for the measures that would compensate, which is one of the major remarks. The fact is also that due to the relatively small number of inhabitants, some units of local self-government on the island are considered highly developed, and the most obvious example is in fact the Municipality of Lastovo, which is due to the implementation of them in 2011, seems almost bankrupt to me, and turns out to be one of the most developed units of local self-government which, by some criteria, may be but then needs to be adjusted a little bit, so this is all that should be taken into account in these specificities. The report, the annual report on the effects of the implementation of the Island Act, is an opportunity to apostrophe some specific things that were important for that year and this is a kind of annual inventory of life on the islands, this island law continues this tradition and we will benefit it to the extent that it is necessary, but also this island law, the new island law brings some positive changes. Of course, if the rulings don't go too far in praise, and now I can't even do that because he's just one representative of the ruling in the hall, so I don't know, here's two, I don't know who would be doing this right now. The fact is that this is one step forward that may have been bigger, but since it is still a step ahead it does not believe that when I produce sublegal acts all of this which has been declared in the law is kept in the best interest of islanders, believing that we will be able to at least through the island council for what I have given and amended, be involved in making sublegal acts and, of course, if something needs to be changed that it is much easier to change the rule and even by political pressure on the institution that is doing this, whether it is the Ministry of Regional Development or Government, which is a little easier than to change the whole law or to implement the new overall procedure of amending the law, by making sure that through the budget, budgetary policy, budgetary amendment and through other laws, it can also contribute a lot to life on islands and its quality as well as Mr. Boric, whose actual debate was the least possible of the Law on the islands, and the same direction that goes to the city, which will go to the same direction and climate. The only thing I would ask my colleague, Boric, is that next time he sees Mayor Split because they are from the same party, he tells him that he is not exaggerating that Austria has done too much in Split and that no one has done anything after them, it is a little bit unserious. The city that organized the Mediterranean Games would certainly not have done so during Austro-Hungarian, but well, and it could still be part of some political folklore. So with 16 sublegal acts that will follow the adoption of this law, along with all other laws and especially the Law on transport in coastal maritime transport, where one initiative of the mayor and mayor of all local self-government units of the island of Brac has been made, to enable certain groups to make free shipping available, it is meant that children with difficulties in developing and voluntary donors of blood for what I declare and legislative initiative in this direction, in order to naturally contribute to the following reports on the implementation of the Law on Islands are even better, that what we believe should be the subject of constructive opposition criticism in this direction, and in some way giving credit to the Minister and then to other government bodies means in the production of sublegal acts, what we have declared to be the subject of the law that all the votes and the new members of the club are related to it, and the importance of the Minister of the Croatians, and of the Croatians, as well as to the famous representatives of the Croatians, the Croatians and the former members of the Croatians, the Croatians and the Croatians, the Croatians, and the Croatians, and the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians of the Croatians of the Croatians and the Croatians, and the Croatians of the Croatians, and the Croatians, and the Croatians, the Croatians, the Croatians, and the Croatians, who are the Croatians, and the Croatians, who are the Croatians, and the Croatians. However, the fact is that if these island coordinators work well that it will be one step forward for the islands and if they do not work well, we will have more room to criticise this solution and possibly fix it. Here's the minister, as I said, the interest-free loan for this bill, I hope that in an adequate way you will return it through the regulations if you do not, you will be exposed to criticism, you will not be spared for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105068	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauku, and for this spirit of tolerance and invitation to the islands, I hope you receive the Herzegovians there as well. ... Well, thank you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We are going to the next debate, on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Everything that says in this law to be good, the GLAS and HSU Club also thinks it would be good, so we have no difficulty with what is stated as some good intentions regarding politics on the islands. We have two fundamentals of some additional remarks that will be made here, one is that no matter what the water says would be good, there are no indications in which way it will actually happen, even though, in some indications how much money will be spent for something, it seems to be quite impossible to realize, for example, the development of an economy on all islands with 11 million kuna per year. Another comment is this large number of sublegal acts, regulations, various acts which will define the de facto implementation of this law, because it does not really show that these good wishes and good intentions will be realised and these sublegal acts de facto take away Parliament's right to participate and to know something about it and that there are eventually any objections or suggestions to what makes the law meaningful or pointless because the way in which these objectives will be implemented and possibly operationalised means of achieving the objectives set out in this law, which is mainly what the law is talking about, will depend on whether these objectives will be achieved or not. Let me say a few sentences in the introduction as far as the island's development is concerned. I think it's important to understand that islands are a completely different species or a different area and a different type of investment. Investment in islands is an economic investment. The islands repeatedly return what is invested in them. So we can't just look at it from the position of uniform development of the Republic of Croatia, but we have to look from the investment position into an unusually important and significant economic branch. And from that point of view, investing in islands, especially investing in island infrastructure is also investing in the economy, investing in tourism. Without that infrastructure, these islands fail because no one will decide to go to the season in islands where waste management is not arranged, where the issue of sewage, water, electricity is not settled. So it's all something that contributes to a very important economic branch for the Republic of Croatia, and from that point of view, I think we should also observe investment in the islands. So, as an investment in an important branch of the Croatian economy, not just as in, say, a balanced regional development. Also, the specificity of the island is that in winter, many colleagues have already mentioned it, a few hundred people or a few thousand people, and in summer a few hundred thousand, sometimes a few million people who come to those islands. So in this sense there are both the dimensions of infrastructure and the dimensions of what we need on the islands. And the environmental awareness of these investments in infrastructure is much, much more important because it covers the defacto and needs to be covered by a much, much larger number of users and people than it is just the population of those islands. Now, a few additional remarks. The Law itself states that by the end of 2020, the National Plan for the Development of the Island will be adopted and the units of local self-government will then adopt their plans, implementation and implementation. What, then, will be done on the basis of this Law? We assume that the National Plan will contain all these good wishes written here and here. We expect, of course, that some strategies and tactics of the realisation of these objectives will be developed in the National Plan, which is not actually done in this Law. The fact that you're talking about 16,17 or how many regulations and sublegal acts that are supposed to turn it into something that's enforceable, that we... We will not see, which Parliament, of course, will not be familiar with, until we see them on the ground, it is in favour of working on it more or less until, therefore, on this preparation, until the National Plan for the Development of the Island is adopted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in some ways, we do, in fact, only one declarative act now, declaring the goals that are considered good, and we think that these objectives are good, without the instruments to achieve these goals and with the already announced idea that, in fact, another document, which will come here to the Parliament, will solve it. One example, let us say in this Law is that the inhabitants of the island will be freed from the payment of the bridge. On the other hand, Minister Butkovic has already announced in public that all will be released from the payment of the bridge. So it's not something that's specifically meant, to say the islanders, but it's something that's planned, no matter where you live. We support it, but we must in some way bring our laws together. We had tax laws here yesterday. They predict, which is not recognised in any way in this law, it is projected, for example, among the 13% VAT rates for, not just for the islands, but for everyone. For some municipal services, including waste management, including water supply. It is something that, of course, reflects on the islands, but it must also reflect on this Law. So, this idea that we don't coordinate the laws that come from different ministries to see what's general and what's special. So, as for all, which applies only to islanders or islanders. According to this proposal to read, since this entire information base that should be some basis for those island cards seems to be not going to finance. Does this mean that the island card will no longer be or that it will appear in another form or that it will also be arranged for one of these regulations mentioned here. Therefore, the main objection to this Law is not the objectives and desires that are set out therein. They're good, we support them, and we agree with them. The main problem and the main difficulty is that there is absolutely no guarantee, nowhere shows how these will be achieved. In addition to being said that this will be defined and regulated by sublegal acts, i.e. rules. The Assembly is a place that cannot confirm only good intentions. The Parliament must have insight into how the objectives will be realized. The main difference between us as a different political option is that most people probably want it to be more good and positive and rich than bad negative and poor. But how you're going to do that, that's the difference between the programmes of individual political options. And that's why we think it's necessary to have insight into not only that, that you want it to be better than what it is, which we want, but to have insight into how it's going to be done. Another remark, the only thing that is very clear from this law, is the famous island coordinators, although there is no telling how many of them will be. Now at this point, we have counties, so we have counties, which belong to all the islands we have, the county by the sea. These counties have development agencies, have all possible instruments, through which they are tasked with keeping an eye on and achieving some of these goals that are listed here. What is the relationship between the counties, their development agencies, their public companies, their jobs, which should also work on these islands and these coordinators. Why not, for example, the county agencies and county institutions could use them to coordinate the implementation of policies on islands. Instead of introducing another layer or another group of officers to de facto, what? Being in conflict with the county agencies, working against them, working together with them, working within the county, coordinating the work, which they do and which are already coordinating the county. So this relationship between the institutions that we already have and who, without further ado, can be said, is now a state policy that, that and that and we coordinate the implementation and policy we coordinate with you and these mystic island coordinators, for which A is not clear how many will be, B is not clear what they will do, C is not clear in what relationship with the county agencies, services and public companies and B and D, excuse me, it is not clear what way they will take over or what will be with them at the moment when we get a national plan for the development of the island, which is likely to be a key document. This is some kind of I would say, comforting rewards before what should actually be a real document on island development and the future of the island, and that's the national plan. So these are some questions that we consider controversial and would like to answer as a club before we decide what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105070	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Pusic, next debate on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105071	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. This text in front of us in the second reading, the law, which we have followed, that is, for many years, has been changed in previous councils, now also the results of the implementation of this law, looking at the whole of this law offer certain improvements. The reason whether or not we support it is that I am coming out, we are going to support it, it's coming out of the realisation report, that is, the results of the implementation of the Island Law, primarily for a reason, one, which has always been a problem on all the islands, which is a depopulation. Because here is the report for 2017 that is visible even though it is now in a short period compared to '16. In '17. The decline in the population, however, is the trend in the population's growth in islands. And I believe, and I think more or less we've all seen since the first island law was passed, to this day that the results are more than visible. But the same weaving of our club, I say we will support it, but we also have some dilemmas, maybe there could have been some solutions different, maybe they could have been more operational, just in terms of how this law will be implemented in the future, just so that the trend of these positive results continues, primarily demographically. Namely, what's this about? The islands are set on development in 3 groups, I will try to make comparisons with the Regional Development Act, there we have indexation, then, the development of regions, the development of local self-government, and now you islands are based on development. I would like to know the criteria based on what you have classified them, i.e. what are the elements of establishing these criteria, primarily simply for the reasons that you are here and in the opening explanation, and I will especially return to the institutional framework that defines island policyholders, coordinators, which is the role of the local self-government unit on the islands, which is the role of the county because we have the impression that we have not only dualism but several levels of overlapping powers of government, jurisdiction and ultimately, the question of who is responsible as a whole or who are all the stakeholders responsible for the implementation of island policies because when it counts alone, he would not want much and then ultimately not to turn out well, that I am not quoting the old sentence. So here you are, I'm going to read this text from the introduction which certainly tells me in some way that certain specificities and institutional frameworks. The establishment of a local self-government unit development index leads to partially unrealistic results when it comes to islands, especially when it comes to islands, parts of the islands that are based on local self-government units on land or on another island. Why is that a problem? Is that supposed to be a problem? Is that supposed to be prominent as a problem? Isn't the responsibility of local self-government an even development of its entire administrative area? It can't be like that. And the concept of an island with a specific position is introduced which, because of its specificity, a limited self-government area does not have sufficient powers and instruments to manage its development. That's probably where you think of local self-government. Namely, what I'm quoting now and when it's put into the context of an institutional framework means a national programme, we have counties, we have local self-government, we have an island council, an island coordinator. And we have more under the Regional Development Act and regional coordinators. I think we have too many steps and too little responsibilities. One thing is to make a strategic plan, who is responsible for implementation, very well known, I think there would be in that part, I believe that implementation will not be a problem, I want there to be no problem, but at first glance, I think it is too much of the accumulation of those who should be doing something, and ultimately who will be responsible, as always, local self-government, mayor or mayor. I think in the very text of the law, you correct me if I misread it, I will not say too little authority or jurisdiction, but functionally, that local self-government is underrepresented in the conduct of national island policies. As far as this part of the institutional framework is concerned, you plan a national development plan for the island, under the Regional Development Act, the Local Self-Government Units Act, each local self-government must have its own development strategy, which should probably be based on this national plan, developing the island if local self-government is on the island. It's some kind of dualism again, overlapping. Speaking of what, what's the difference between the continent and the island. I don't know someone mentioned it in the replica, and I'm going to try, let's try to paint the idea of bringing all the islands together with the mainland in a vision. A colleague named Bauk, imagine that both Brac and Lastovo and Krk, let's connect it to the mainland. What are the differences? Traffic. You have to get on the ferry, you have to get on the boat, we have a road in the continent. I understand. As far as island rights are concerned, the state is obliged to provide approximately equal, to create approximately equal living conditions and on both islands and on the continent. Bridges, same traffic. Water supplies, absolutely yes. Electricity availability. It means the same standard on islands and on the continent and on land. Now, of course, I don't live on an island, I've had a chance to be in the summer period and in the winter period and what's very specific, one line of my stay before Christmas, my colleague says so you see how desert here in winter. So they said how many inhabitants you have, 2200. In fact, it's just plain simple for a reason because residential buildings, family houses, rarely in which you could see the light. How's it going in the summer? Uh, he says, it's all full. You see how it is with you in the winter, that's how it is with us on the continent every night. So there are certain differences. The state found, the interest had to determine the interest and there was already talk about it. As for dimensioning, all those infrastructures, communal infrastructures that we have identical and final load. And that's the difference between what local self-government is on the continent, the state has to jump in. That difference must be covered, it should not go even to the burden of local self-government as well as to the burden of citizens living on islands, so we have to make a distinction out of it. Why? One suggestion. You have, so the Republic of Croatia is in 2016 51 local self-government, living on the islands of 130819 residents. So, an increase in population and then you have one piece of information, says: The state public sector invested a billion 699 in the development of the island in 2017, meaning, 1.7 billion kunas of budget funds, means 1.4 grants and 263 million investments in the form of loans. That turns out to be about $11.00 a year per capita, pure grants. What I'm saying is what I'm hearing, in contacts, and with colleagues, and with people, and with my residents, to what extent it's justifiable to invest, whether it's enough and in relation to the investment that the state is investing, and in the Regional Development Act, so that's, that's, islands are special. We have speciality on the continent, too. And on the continent, unfortunately, the ministers have certain municipalities that are islands. You have two bus lines of public transport, one morning early, the other late in the evening. You have 40, 50 km of traffic availability to the House of Health, even more. No other transport infrastructures, unless you have a personal car, if there are no neighbors, you're isolated, you're on an island. It works just as well for you, because in some ways people question what reason so much is invested in the islands. As much as I try, I assure you, however, I was obviously not successful at it. It says how much GDP is on the islands, how much income per capita is on the islands, what the budgets of local self-government are, 3.5 to 10,000 and over 10,000,00 kn per capita. To what extent local self-government with its budget revenues is also included in the National Programme or in the implementation of this island policy. Namely, these are questions, I'm saying this for reasons of the public, to understand the problem, but it's also about facts and truths because it's about public money. I'm not saying this for reasons I shouldn't, yes, maybe more and probably need more, but equally, believe that many citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the continent, in these areas, feel a little bit neglected. They do not deny the need of islanders that everything goes there, but they feel neglected because they see there is no investment either. It's just, people are, they're not bad, people are human. He says he doesn't pay for this, I have to pay for this, he doesn't pay for this, I have to pay for it again, which is the difference. So I'm saying, perhaps in reasons, or I don't know when you're going to have a chance to somehow and citizens on the continent who ask certain questions, some of them for a reason, just for reasons they're not sufficiently informed. But also, I believe that, of course, when you're in charge, your Ministry is competent to somehow justify this additional investment. The fact is what I would suggest, try, and you can get that data, as much as on average the state invests in the continent per capita. Well maybe, fellow Boric, I've calculated, and then maybe there won't be any questions for these 13.000,00 kn or 11.000,00 kn, even more. Because it's not about making recommendations, it's about everything that needs to be sensitized for what's necessary. We will support this Law with a desire to make every next year a trend of about 10, 15% of the population increase and that, if necessary, this Law is further done in terms of the positive and through the Underlaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105072	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105073	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed minister with the assistant minister, the esteemed co-workers and colleagues. Mr. Boric spoke on behalf of the HDZ advocates' club about the law and the fact that we at the club will support this Final Bill proposal. After 20 years again in HS we are discussing the Law on Islands, and I said so, and at first reading, I will repeat this now, that as long as I have been following national legislation, as long as I have followed what and at what premises of the Republic of Croatia individual laws are passing, I dare say that no law in the independent, sovereign, independent Republic has hit the core of the problem of a particular space, as it hit the 1999 Island Act. First of all, from the fact that it was based on a great document The National Development Programme of Croatian Islands, the sustainable development of Croatian islands, which was then preceded by the Law of the 99th and was adopted in 1997 in which they participated from the Academy, Croatian scientific institutions, etc. and which has prescribed a programme of measures which should contain the future law adopted in '99. Mr. and from then on, life on Croatian islands has changed significantly. Because it is this law that affects the measures that have made life easier on Croatian islands. So for us islanders, this law has become a long time law lex specialis, because it contains almost all the important ways of life on Croatian islands. With this law for the islanders is special are the other two laws, the one we adopted is the Law on... In this context, I would like to call on the Minister, and I have already said that the Agency for Line Coastal Maritime Transport is not being abolished, as planned, by amending this law, I hope that we will stop there and we will not stop the agency, because it is very important for the monitoring of the transport connections of Croatian islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the second law, which is important, which we expect is the Law on the Sea Good. So, when we observe these 3 laws, then I believe that we are with them, almost covering all the powers, which are important for fate, for life, for the standard of Croatian, or island. The following law then adopted a number of measures in 1999, since the subsidisation of island transport, which until then was subsidized, but after '99. Significantly subsidized, significantly higher resources when vinjets were introduced, later they grew into island IDs, water prices were subsidized, subsidies were given, more specifically employers, who are based on the island, for every employee who has on the island residence, the HOP we introduced this morning at the pre-Christmas fair here in Zagreb reminded me, where we see, it seems to me that 900 products from the Croatian island have already been marked with originality, quality, autochtony in an arbitrary manner, so that these measures, these subsidies, with free transportation for many groups of islanders, practically, I said where life has changed on Croatian islands. Not to say that during that time we had several projects co-financed by the funds of international institutions, either the development banks of the Council of Europe, any European investment bank, where we built, almost, I won't say everything, but somewhere around 80%, if we talk about populated islands, 80% of the municipal, social and transport infrastructure on Croatian islands. These 2 projects were implemented between 2001 and 2011. I am sorry that the SDP Government has stopped such a similar problem, which should have been further allocated, about 50m euros on Croatian islands in the rest of the social and municipal infrastructure, but what is there, I hope then, by applying to European funds, we will make up for this one lost time. Therefore, that time was marked by a very large investment in the Croatian islands, and I am not surprised, which also showed that the population census in 2001 and 2011 increased in those 10 years in the Croatian islands. The population for 7,000 teams more than I know that by 2001 we witnessed a huge depopulation of Croatian islands. I come from a town in Korčula, where only one day in 1995, 1,400 inhabitants went to South America and we know very well what migration is, we know very well what economic migration is, and we know very well what it means to be cut off from land, which means to be forgotten and abandoned. So when we talk about these billions and 700 million kn, which are invested annually on Croatian islands, they may sound to someone, that it is very much, however, more almost... of which it goes to traffic connection, i.e. it goes for the needs of boaters who connect Croatian islands and help simply that we islanders can come to the mainland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I hope that through the implementation of this law, we will already see this in the first national programme or strategy or plan for the development of Croatian islands,... The government of the Republic of Croatia, on a 7-year-old deadline, see this one endeavor, to further speed up life on Croatian islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone had said well before, we are, in this way, entering the islands, almost equally helping the state of Croatia. Namely, if we know that every 4 tourists in Croatia ends up on the Croatian island, on Croatian islands somewhere between 3 million and 700 million or 4 million tourists per year, that about 26 million... in Croatian islands, then you see that it is a quarter of the total income from tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we know that income from tourism is a fifth, total GDP of the Republic of Croatia, then we see how much Croatian islands contribute to the development of the Republic of Croatia. These tourists also come to the islands for the reason that we invest in this traffic connection with islands about 320 million € per year for the needs of Jadrolinija and others, for subsidising Jadrolinija and other boaters that connect Croatian islands. Therefore, each kuna invested on the islands is more than multiplying and returning to the Croatian economy and increasing gross production in Croatia. What I also wanted to point out, which is what this law is about. For me, it's almost as important as this island law, the national development plan of the island, which will bring the government to a period of 7 years. It's a basic document that will determine the conduct of any government, so I'd say regional administrations, i.e. county, units of regional and regional self-government towards islands. And this document is good, as provided for in the law, and it must be closely linked to the island's development plan, which is made for the island's area, and I support that this law requires, if there are several units of local self-government to bring an agreed common plan of development to the island and when we have these two basic documents, then this annual programme of development of Croatian islands will show us how much, in which way, we will justly invest a billion 800 and 2 million kn each year on islands. Therefore, I consider this to be the most important, what is most important in this Law is this National Programme which will essentially determine life on Croatian islands in the next decade or at the time when this law itself will be realized. I support and wonder that we do not know how many island coordinators there will be, it is not clear to me, in Article 8, of the Law, there will be 7, in my opinion, there will be as many units of self-government that have islands in their composition, and that is 7 coastal Countys, and those 7 coordinators for me will be what the Board of Islands is, I have fought so much since I became a' the first time the head of the municipality of '93. the year on the island, that in Zagreb there is a central institution that cares about life on the islands, and the establishment of the Board of Islands started and all these projects that started, we can thank them for the fact that we had an institution in Zagreb that took care of islands daily. The fact that for Croatia, the Authority of the Islands, it must be an island co-ordinator in every county that is connected there to the Regional County Development Agency and he, that is his purpose and that, I support that at the County level now someone is constantly taking care of Croatian islands. The second thing, I don't have much time yet, I'm going to set aside the need for the construction, the emergency construction of the state programme for the restoration of the catasters and land books on Croatian islands. We brought it in 2000, the state, so we left it, it wasn't good, and now that we've introduced it in the law, we have to realize it because it's supposed to develop not only the island, but the whole, but the whole of Croatia. And one more thing, I'm going to finish with that, Mr. Vice President, and I support that the Environmental Protection Fund has accepted the subsidisation of waste disposal from the island to the regional centres that will be built in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105074	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105075	Thank you very much. Comrade Bacic, just what you're saying means more upgrades. So, our basic, today, message has been 20 years since the first law, time has changed, we have entered the European Union, this law sets the space of the island for the next 10 years, 15 years, in the sense that it can get its own operational programme, that we can introduce concepts such as smart island, means that we care about green islands, solar energy, all possible renewable energy sources, to solve the waste issue, that the state subsidized, and that we have introduced it, but also that the Board of Islands, and the Ministry, now know what it is to do to them. If we have an amendment to the law, I don't know, about spatial arrangement, maybe it's time for those miles of protected coastal belt after legalization, no more miles, to be 500 meters, to allow ourselves to develop, because, in some ways, in the area of the island, we've been overprotected, in the sense that it's already been over a few years without some things changing. So I'm the direction of clear provisions that need to direct the island's policy in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105076	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105077	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague, Borić, I said that Law, that is, the applicable Law was passed in another time of creation of modern independent Croatia in post-stratovic times, when we invested all the kunas we invested on the islands from the state, national budget. The new Law for New Time, for a new regional European policy, and we need today, as other parts of Croatia, to be aware that we need to train local self-government, and in this sense I see coordinators, local self-government on islands to adapt to that fact, to help it apply to European funds, and that all the remaining projects in municipal, transport, social infrastructure are being solved through European funds. I failed to highlight a very important project, a beautiful project by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, where at this point about half a billion kuna will be invested in the construction of ports intended for transport connections, whether they are on land, whether they are at sea, and this is the top project I support and which will improve the transport integration of Croatian islands even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105078	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105079	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you have well seen this share of the island in tourism, tourist product, gross product, but now there is one aspect that might be improved. So, this island's potential has been seen by entrepreneurs, of course, so the shopping centres that then do very well in summer are being built, making huge revenues, but from that income, local self-government units on the islands have little use, except, of course, those shopping centres create garbage that are not then taken care of, so that maybe in tax policy they should take care of and that a mechanism is found which part of the traffic or profits that are made on the islands, and even in other tourist parts of Croatia, would not be so centralised, but local self-government units would benefit from it, so here, in a sense, further activities would lead to the account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105080	My colleague Bacic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105081	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Well, it's not exactly that of these malls, the islands have no big use, it's mostly top-of-the-line supply today on Croatian islands, another thing a large number of island employees participate in there, and the third thing I can say from my position, my municipalities, therefore, I come, thanks to the fact that this law, as it's conjectured, allows every employer who has a seat on the island, that his transportation to the island is half cheaper, but he who has land seats, on my island, in my place,... trucks, tow trucks, which are currently supplying such chains as you're talking about, whose original trucks would pay twice the price, and then food on Croatian islands would certainly be more expensive to tourists than it is using this Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this Law also predicted, yes, it allowed many entrepreneurs who have a seat on the island to open up on the islands of their branches,... on land, opening up on the islands of their branches, paying taxes on the company, paying taxes on profits, which is not little and I say, their complete fleet is on the islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105082	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic for his reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Marijan Kustic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105083	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is our colleague, Boric, who spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, which comes from the island of Rab, here I come from the island of Pag, explained why we will also support this bill. This Law shows all efforts made by this Government that are not only declarative in nature but are also realistic in order to achieve the best conditions for the development and survival of young people on the islands. I would like to remind you that this Law assumes 3 basic documents, the National Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands, the Plan for the Development of Croatian Islands and the Island Annual Programme. It is important to stress that the Islands Act is generally complex because it covers a specific geographical part and multi-sectorally penetrates almost all areas of island life and development, and introduces its provisions in part several bodies of state administration, as well as units of regional self-government, units of local self-government on islands, or those of which have islands in their composition. Finally, small, less populated islands such as Silba, Žirje, Kapre, Zlarin, Union, Susak, Premuda, etc. They get their space within Croatian politics, policies towards islands and that the state invests a large part of the funds there, and all in order to strengthen their economic growth, thus creating new jobs for young island families who see their perspective on the islands. This Law complements measures that give islanders the opportunity to take advantage of new technologies and new knowledge, as well as European funds, smart, inclusive and successful island communities for an innovative and sustainable Europe. Some of the measures of this Law will be more visible than others. It is important for our public to highlight some of them. The law provides for the management of wildlife and the removal of invasive foreign species on islands, for the threat of human safety, domestic animals and property. Special care is being taken in the islands about the management of game and hunting sites and the introduction is prohibited and the removal of invasive foreign species can be allowed. This Law facilitates the availability of mineral raw materials for the production of construction materials, industrial processing on islands for the purpose of more economical construction or removal of large costs of maritime transport of construction material. The Institute of First Buying Rights of the Republic of Croatia is arranged on a small, occasionally populated and uninhabited island in order to protect the island space. I, here and as an islander, certainly commend this bill and here, I will certainly support it, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105084	I thank my colleague Kustic. We have replicas. Dear fellow Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105085	A colleague of Kustic, here, it is good that you have pointed out what we have tried, perhaps not enough, so these small islands, which are defined here through a subset of specific areas of the island that are finally getting their place in politics, means, which should go towards the islands and perhaps the most important accent of this Law, means that large islands should no longer have problems, that in these past 20 years it has been brought to a level that they can function on their own, a little bit to return their part, let's say, participation in the state budget and return large funds to the state budget, but that small ones who have Centre, meaning, on the mainland or on the island of Mali Lošinj, that there should be measures that will be designed and through this level of programme that you have led these people there to finally understand or see, especially those mayors who have Centre, meaning, on the island or on the island of Mali Lošinj, that several of their islands, that they have a different way of care of the islands than it's ever been before. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105086	I thank my colleague, Boric. The next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105087	Thank you very much. Dear Kustic, you mentioned the problem of invasive savages in your debate. But you said that from the point of view that you think this legislative proposal will solve it. Why do you think that if from the Cresco Losinj area, the Otokski Parliament, the Primorje Mountain County thinks this legislative proposal is not good. I call on you to take advantage of your influence to meet until the vote once again representatives of the Ministry with representatives of both Cres and Losinj and Primorje Mountain County and amendments to the proposed article. 38 that does not solve the problem of the shepherds in Cres, Lošinj, on Pag is somewhat smaller, but Cres and Lošinj are particularly threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105088	Thank you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105089	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'll continue here where I'm standing by saying, I'll say at the beginning that as my colleague Bauk said, we at the SDP club think there's a whole series of improvements in this Act, but we are saddened that this particular part of the wild alochton was not solved in the way that representatives of the especially Cresko Losinj area, the Primorian Mountain County, the Otoksal Assembly. Here's a statement from one of the Cres residents who said, 15 years ago, there were 25 to 30,000 sheep in the Cresco Losinj Islands, today there are only about 12,000. So far, at least we've had legal opportunities to try to catch alochton savage, yet the sheep count has been drastically reduced. If the wild boars are recognised the same status as indigenous game, rabbit and pheasant, in 15 years the sheep will no longer be. Instead of large herds of several hundred sheep, there will only be those that people will keep in their homes, a maximum of 10 for their own needs, says this Cressanin. Also, a second Cressanin is attached to him who says, we have repeated several times, we have expressed the view of island shepherds that the only solution that will guarantee the survival of the Cress sheep as the original breed, the total excretion of alochton breeds from the island. So, this problem goes back in time, in the 1980s, there was the creation of a hunting ground on Cres, and the data is very interesting, although it's a little bit of us, and I'm going to share it with you, and that's when 29 of the throats of the wild pigs, 63 of the deer's throats and 54 of the muflon's throats were introduced. Today, after all these years, on Cres, there are about 60,000 feral pigs. At the same time, 14,000 feral pigs were caught at the same time. So the County of Primorje Goranska spent 4.5 million kuna for the capture of all these invasive species. However, the problem has failed to resolve without the problem being solved by the solution that you are. Ministers offered, it is clear because the Hunting Act, which we recently adopted, reduced the fee, given to units of local and regional self-government to pay hunters for hunting, wild alien species, so the county will no longer have the money to encourage the capture of invasive species. Therefore, together with representatives of the Cresko Lošinj area, the Primorje Goranj County has written one amendment, and we ask you to reconsider the possibility that treatment of invasive species on islands, and especially on the island of Cres and the Cresko Lošinj area should not be solved in the way you moved, but rather to be closer to the legal text that was written 20 years ago and which was more quality. There is also another proposal concerning art. 31. which speaks of the right to preferential and public island road transport, where we suggest that you place and enter another item, and with regard to the right to free island road transport, there are also employees in deficits, employees of employers who carry out their activity on islands. We believe that with these few minor improvements, the law as a whole would ultimately be better quality. I thank you on behalf of all herdsmen to the Cresko Lošinj area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105090	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105091	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Usually, in a meeting on islands, the most important is the presentation of a report on the implementation of the effects of the Island Law, which once a year is carried out by the government, and also in many laws that respect island specificities, it is an opportunity to talk about life on islands. Of course, there are moments, which, by reason of more force, become clear, in fact, what a handicap it is to live on islands in relation to life on land, is most often, when, due to the catastrophic weather conditions, inaccessible health care is available. Can't get past the ship, can't get through the helicopter, etc. But fortunately, you're rarer, rarer moments, it would be good if it never happened, but against nature it can't. Also, we're glad there's an island law. Although its content is in this operational sense, and even in the law, it seems to me that there is no violation provision, so that, because of the non-compliance of the law, no one will be penalized, but we are glad that there is a Law on Islands, which defines certain specificities and certain rights, which the inhabitants of the island, which those who come to the island or those who work and companies from the island have in relation to the rest of Croatia. And I believe that the specificity of this law will remain the lasting value of our legal system and regional policy of any Croatian government, as it is of course nice that the Croatian Constitution, as well as the EU policy, recognise the islands as a particular specificity. I'd be more careful if I were to talk, when I'm talking about investing in the islands and comparing it to the number of inhabitants of the island, because it's just not methodologically correct. What's done on the islands is done not only for those people, who are 12 months old. They live on an island, more than they do on a month or 2 or 4 on an island. So when it comes to the number of inhabitants of the island, perhaps the most correct thing would be to share the average monthly number of people on the island this two summer months that is multiple. And when it divides, there's a slightly larger number of people, who on average do what they do. And it is then not only those who have a residence on the island, it is a large number of Croatian citizens and an even greater number of EU citizens, that is, our foreign tourists, who also because of some of the advantages they find, that our islands have, come to them. Because they're free to choose where they're going to go, and yet they come to us in a large number. Therefore, I believe that there is a consensus about the state's need to care, especially about Croatian islands and that in certain time periods the Croatian Parliament mentions life on islands, island specificities and that certain things are given attention. In view of the fact that this law provides for some dynamics of the adoption of various sublaws, sometime by 2020 and somewhere within 180 days, within 90 days. The adoption of each of these regulations, especially those more sensitive, will be an opportunity, that, hopefully in the form I have proposed by amendment, it is at least on the island council, and through counselling, with an interested public because every regulation, including this sublegal, should go through a vow with an interested public, that it will also be an opportunity to point out certain things. If the need for certain adjustments and changes is shown and this will be an opportunity, it is easier to do so through the amendment of the rules than through the entire legislative process in the Croatian Parliament to amend individual laws. And in that sense, as I said on behalf of the club, we this kind of law, which looks more like a declaration, we will support it. We don't see anything in what's controversial and what would require us to be against such opposition. However, not even our HDZ colleagues did so when we were government, they were just against what we were proposing for islands and they voted in favour of these reports when our government proposed them, so in that sense, in the last 20 years, it was never disputed. They introduced midnight lines, and we introduced free of charge for the pensioners as early as 2003, so that's where we could always agree more or less. I hope that in the implementation of this law, the Ministry of Regional Development will play a positive role, but I would also like the case of other laws concerning the island... political pressure on your colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, therefore, one of my first meetings with the legislative process was in 2008 when I first became a representative of the Health Protection Act, which prescribed that the counties, not that they could, but that the counties would establish health homes on the islands as a special county institution. And then I was, in 2008, writing,... And then in 2008, I was as a young bloated, naive representative believing that what the law says should be implemented, each time the Minister of Health asked when it would be, because the countys don't do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the end, they came to the conclusion that they had abolished that provision in law, so there was no conflict of law. And the declaration was, that is, the wish of the legislator to have health homes on the islands, which are special institutions compared to the county home of health. That thing on Korčula, on Brač, wasn't on Hvar. And on Vis they didn't even want to, they didn't want to. So it wasn't even done in any sense. Now, that's about as much as the island law, it would be county institutions, it'd be formal separate, but we'd have the same leadership as right now, but all this stuff that's written in the island law can be put into different laws, but we prefer it, let it stand on one law, as it does for defenders to prefer that everything stands in one law, etc. It's simple, when a man and minorities, same as having everything in one law, when people want to feel specific, to actually respect their specificity, then they like to do it that way, even through a declaration, which is a few times to Mrs. Cikotic tried to explain during the debate, even if it stands in something that has more status of the declaration. Now, one of the most beautiful stories of all, the novel Ernesta Hemingway has a sentence no man is an island. No island by this is an island, because we are all part of a whole called our county, Croatia, the EU, the world and everything that happens outside the island has some effect on what is happening on the island, so when, as Hemingway says to whom the bell rings, it rings for all of us. Therefore, if something is happening outside the island, we cannot observe that it is not happening and think that it will not affect us. Like when they see something happening on the island, it can happen to everyone else. Of course, there's a bigger risk on the island. During the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Tolnauer, who is otherwise chairman of the National Minority Council, began a sentence that we are all at some point a minority. Then I turned to then Deputy Prime Minister Mimica and started telling him you know me islanders and I put three points there. There are four out of 151 of us in this House. Mr. Bačić, Mr. Boric, Mr. Kustic and I and we thank you all for having an understanding of the specificities of the island and, despite what Mr. Prevec said in your midst, you also have problems, support that the islands are being helped and that island specificities are more visible, i.e. to be heard for them in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, the islanders must also be grateful to the citizens of Slavonia, like, Zagreb, Međimurje and all other counties, which separates from their taxes so that we can drive cheaper on the islands, so that we can build ports, something more than elsewhere. And after all, that's why guests are happily seen on our islands during the summer, and we can only invite them, let them keep coming. Wanting everything declared to the greatest extent to be achieved, this law to be a list of good wishes, but most of these wishes to be achieved, so if not in this government, then in the next one. I will support the Island Law and carefully care for it to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105092	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have replicas of respected colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105093	Dear colleague Bauk, you have repeatedly said in your presentation that this law is one declaration, in which a list of good wishes is so of these beautiful desires and transportation means waste from the island, from which funds should be provided through the law itself, or, finally, the bill, it is obvious that the funds are not secured. So please just tell me, how do you see this problem, by the way, that during this debate I have received several messages that during the tourist season garbage from the island is being driven in ferrys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105094	Thank you for your response, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105095	Well, I don't see how else you could be driving, by what? Helicopters, planes, a little harder. So, since you told me that several times I said that the declaration is a list of good wishes, then I'll say it one more time. Well, if it weren't for a list of good wishes, but bad desires, then they'd be discussing it a little differently. So it's true that in the fund's budget for environmental protection, funds will have to be provided for to co-finance the export of waste from the island, and if that doesn't happen, then there are 2 ways. It's one thing for those who carry it, who have expenses, who sue the state for failing to comply with the obligations of the Island Law, so they'll eventually decide on that court, and the other for at least on the parent board to look for an indication of the Environmental Protection Fund, why it doesn't respect the Island Act. Here, a minute, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105096	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bauk, I just wanted to say, that the organisation of the health care homes depends on the county, and we founded 2 health homes in Korcula, there was no county yet, so it was inherited by the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but such a relationship of strength, in, when it comes to health care schedules on the island. I agree with you that the Law on Islands is, otherwise such laws, which are not only a list of beautiful desires, but also in a certain way and the obligations of other central authorities to act and ensure what is provided for by this Law, is an extra-party issue. As the bodulska ballad says, "Life is on the bone and joy and sorrow," if there were no of this Law and had not been passed in '99, life on the horse would have been much more sad than it is today. Therefore, this Law made it possible, I said individually, that indeed numerous, numerous investments and life on the island would be simpler and easier than it would be without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105098	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105099	I tried to find further lyrics, uh, bodulska ballads, no, no, no, "of all the lipots, we love the sea," yes, that's what you said was the obligation of the County, but at one point the state, and during HDZ, said, gave the County the obligation to establish health homes, so as these did not form, they abolished the law. And I may have been inaccurate in reply to Mrs. Chikotic, when I said they were riding garbage by ferry, and I didn't say they had to drive on regular lines, they could be extraordinary lines for environmental and hygiene reasons, but they'll still be riding by ferry, not, I don't believe they'll be driven by helicopters or other means of transport. Okay, there's lots of beautiful songs about our islands, and I hope they're still going to be part of one, uh, tourist attraction, and the rest of the soul our islands showed during this summer when they escorted Oliver, as they escorted him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105100	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Final word on behalf of the Proposer, the Honored Minister Gabriela Žalac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105101	Thank you very much. Here, thank you for all your comments today, but I must express my dissatisfaction with why we spent time on committees then, obviously we should put cameras on committees, and then the debate would be much earlier today. But, here, let me give you a brief answer to everything that you have pointed out in your debate today, and above all, the part relating to your amendment to Parliamentarian Jovanovic, and it refers to, therefore, allochtoric savage, we held a meeting on 23 October, with 21 units of local self-government and we are deeply aware of the issues that Mayor Kučić spoke about with Losinj, and Mr Jurjako, and we will do everything we can to make sure that the Hunting Act and this part that is problematic when we talk about savages that are currently in the law and numbered, in this current law, but this happens, regardless of what they are numbered, and you are in your amendment, as far as I can see, suggested that it remains so. It is currently so, however, not being implemented, in some way. And I think it's crucial that the Hunting Law, in fact, and the Ministry of Agriculture, make a decision, although under the current law, they can also execute those animals, and that's a big problem, we're deeply aware of that. When we talk about what you're talking about, Mr. Bauk, then I have to tell you, I'd have a lot less to do if the Department of the Islands was in the Ministry, so traffic, but when we talk, transport and infrastructure, but when we're talking about development, then I think it's absolutely better to have it in our, so, the Ministry, especially when we talk about a review of how it all goes together, so look when we talk about a developmental sense. And I'm not afraid at all of these sublegal acts, they're going to be brought, not by a fast deadline, but by much more practically almost and prepared, and I think that's exactly how we can be much faster and more expedient than what's happening here when we're having so much discussion about European projects, we wouldn't certainly have had an effect in some way of implementing and all that is needed. I do not think again that everything financed by the European Union's Funds should stand in the law. There's an operational program, there are measures that are, we've shown you what it looks like, some things go from the state budget, some go from European funds, we'll try to make it better and better. When we talk about public procurement, the Public Procurement Plan, MP Cikotic, you ask the question of our ministry daily, we should probably open one administration to answer all your questions, which you have received, of course, answers. When we talk about what public procurement in my ministry looks like, I'll, of course, decide, decide who gets 2,000 kuna, based on the competition, we'll decide on it also on the basis of the Commission, who gets maybe 400, 500 or more thousand kuna, and that's something we're working on, and we'll absolutely decide on it. When we talk about how we see development investments, then I certainly must say that, enough to say, in this Law, when a representative body is to be reported once a year on all investments, on all the measures we have in this Law, I really think that this part of the professional body, in implementation, is much more concrete through the executive power and in some way to provide you with information about what happens once a year on Croatian islands, how we have done our job in the past year and how these measures have made development. In any case, over the past 20 years of the Island Law, it speaks in favour of all indicators, even an increase in population. Some who have commented, are no longer in the assembly, but I have to look back on the continent, I have to look back at the government project Slavonia, I have to look back at the government session we held, which is dedicated to the development of Croatian islands, on the island of Hvar, on my island, I also consider myself a peninsular, and I will probably live on the island one day, I personally care about what it will look like all together. But what is important to point out, is, the Law on the financing of units of local regional self-government has said, as we coordinating ministry, a little bit of what regional development policy looks like, then I have to look back at that. The islands have had their incomes through their original incomes, so the income tax charge, a certain portion of the funds, certainly did not receive these funds by tax reform, so there are 195 million kunas of which are 100 in our ministry for the rest of the sea, transport and infrastructure. If you were in the sea then you would just talk about the sea as well as about health homes and therefore helicopter services, emergency assistance so all of our indicators that I have presented to you right now are what the situation on the Croatian islands looks like. We drew on the map what the infrastructure of each species looks like on the Croatian islands, but 1.5 billion kuna-supported areas are being discussed, of course, in the second reading of the Law on Supported Areas, we will discuss the mountain-mounted areas we have absolute indicators of how much through the Law on the financing of units of local self-government we have invested money in the original revenues of these 304 units or in the case of mountain-mounted areas under the new distribution of 81 units. So we can't talk about just one law that doesn't interpell into some other law that, of course, primarily puts funds into the original budgets. And I would certainly point out the part relating to therefore the strategic documents themselves, it is the least of our problems, we have an absolute vision of how Croatia's islands will look by 2030 in the development of the National Development Strategy, and in particular the Regional Operational Programme, whether it will call it or be called the Island Development Programme, the part that will be directed through the new operational programme, absolutely everything we do, we are systematically creating a system that has never existed for years, and I think now is the time for Croatia to really have a perspective that in every segment, not only of the island, mountain-mounted, assisted areas, the Slavonic indicators of some governments' bad decisions, about NUTS two regions, about the map of regional support, I can tell you by tomorrow evening about what the system we are building and what kind of benefit he will do to the economy and therefore what are called incentives for investment, of course, but everything that has happened to RH. When we talk about how island coordinators, we will manage it will work in county development agencies, we will absolutely have control over it by analysis of workloads, as many projects, as much resources, and that is a very clear indicator, we will absolutely take care of it, and I think we will contribute to the development of a larger number of projects that will be on the islands. These people will be employed by county development agencies, but we as well as regional coordinators that we now finance, re-accredit, strengthen the system on the ground I think it's certainly in the interest of local self-government and economics units and all those who need to have benefits from all this we're doing right now. Here, indeed, when we comment on something I love when we read not only what it says in the text but also between the lines, and especially when we talk about the coordination moment of other laws that have intervention in a particular area. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105102	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for this closing statement. We have a few more replicas. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105103	Madam Minister and we, when we came to power in the first law, were just for the islands of the Ministry of the Sea transferred to the Ministry of Regional Development, yes, but when HDZ was in power better, is, is, is... then it was abolished, but when the ministry, when HDZ is in power better be in the Ministry of the Sea, this is when they were last, Boris and Bacic weren't even bad at all. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If there were others, it wouldn't have been a good, good solution because that's how it works with HDZ, we know that, who's more politically powerful, that can give more money to this guy for something and everything. That when we're in power it might be in the Ministry of Culture, there won't be any problems, it'll stick to some criteria and it'll be all right, so you don't have to be in that context was my debate, that's what I was saying before, so just like there's a special law it would be to you if it were a special part of the Ministry of the Sea, that's what I was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105104	I thank you, the next replica of dear colleague Sonja Cikotic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105105	Dear Minister, first of all, I'm sorry that you didn't initially take the right to answer the lines, uh, to ask questions to all the members of the government and so on, and to you, please don't open another administration, six administrations are enough, really enough and seven assistants who don't have administration are enough. And here's a chance to answer my question about how a central government means a state body that manages a serious public policy of regional development has decided to launch the procurement for the study and/or analysis needed to implement the measures of the new island law, for a value of 195,000 kuna, so here you don't have to write a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105106	I thank you, next replica of the esteemed colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105107	Thank you very much Minister, thank you for the final word, I think that we who want to see this in the future have clearly seen what this means, and we have seen some who don't want to look into the future and ask questions for which there are solutions and there are, let's just say that you're not answering this question about the disposal of waste, meaning that I'm also a member of the board of directors in the fund can tell you that you're not telling the truth, so this year there are 10 million kuna in the fund's financial plan to implement the measures, unfortunately there was no basis, which was more or less on somehow in the air because the Zadar Islands have been driving that waste away from the county centers for years, they're practically clean islands and we're just now opening up space for all those who have been ordered to drive from their local self-government from their own islands. And there's nothing more normal than installing it into the law, ordering the fund to plan the funds every year and to move on. But don't tell the truth, don't. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105108	I thank my colleague, Boric, for replicating the minister, not my colleague Cikotic. I'm glad you explained it to her. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Regional Development of the EU Fund, Mrs. Gabrieli Žalac, and her assistant, Mrs. Tajani Huzak, for the reasons and responses of the parliamentary representatives. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue our work on Monday 19.11. at 9.30 p.m. with agenda points: - Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the Croatian State budget for 2017 and Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2017, and - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian State budget for 2017. Have a nice rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 14.58 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105109	Final proposal of the island law, second reading, P.Z. Number 413. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by MP Arsen Bauk, representative Zeljko Jovanovic and representative Rezimir Varda. I would like to ask the representative or the representative of the Proposer to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is the honour of Smmentka Đuric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds. Please, colleagues and colleagues. First Amendment of Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105110	The proposed amendment shall not be accepted since it is clearly in the article. The 18th Amendment, which is referred to as the advisory body of the Minister responsible for the Islands, was established in order to advise on the design and implementation of the plans, measures and activities for the sustainable development of the island, which implies the participation and consultation of all sublegal implementing rules, as requested by this Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105111	It's obvious, Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105112	Your Honor, Mr. President, if I understand correctly, the amendment has been rejected because of what it says in the law, but it doesn't. Therefore, the basis of this Law requires the adoption of 16 implementing rules and, given that the Island Council is formed as an advisory body, it would be logical for this advisory body to meet and discuss what is to be adopted in the Law, these are implementing rules. And by accepting this amendment, only that provision would be strengthened or doubt would be left. Now, given that colleagues Boris and Bacic are members of the Island Council, I would not want it to turn out now that the government does not want to hear the advice of Mr Bačić and Mr Boric on the Island Council before adopting implementing rules. And in order not to put them in a position to vote against themselves, I'm not going to ask to vote on this amendment, so I'm not putting them in an awkward situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105113	You're very noble. Thank you. The second amendment is the amendment of MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105114	Amendment to Art. The 38th is not accepted in view of that. 38. The final proposal of the Island Act refers to the game of invasive species, the animal side of the invasive species on the islands, and since the Hunting Act is a lex specialis for the management of game and hunting grounds, this article is also in line with the Law applicable to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105115	Here's a statement from my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105116	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I find you wrong. The amendment that I have proposed sets out a ban on the introduction of invasive savages who do not live on the island and in a better way solves the problem, for example. Shepherding, safety of the population, possessions, assets, while fishing for alochtons, e.g. Wild boars on the island of Cres and the preservation of Shepherdry cannot be solved by hunting methods and the Hunting Act cannot be assumed by the Island Act because it is ineffective for this purpose. I will remind all those present, since they may not be familiar with this subject, which shows to what extent this solution you are proposing is not good. So, in the 1980s, 29, 29 wild boars, 63 deer shovels and 54 muflon throats were introduced to Cres Island. Meanwhile, a hunting problem has arisen, and the Primorje-Gorski County has tried to solve the problem with hunting methods. You heard the figures I said at the beginning, from 2005 to 2017. The coastal-goran County has paid for 4 million kuna by encouraging the fishing of wild species, with 13,230 head of wild boars, 6,952 deer shovels from the initial 29 head of wild boars, 63 head of deer shovelards. At the same time, the number of sheep has dropped from 30,000 to 12,000, so these methods are not effective and I urge you to adopt in sublegal acts at least better rules that will allow for the survival of Shepherding on the island of Cres because they were both from Cres and Lošinj and from the Primorje-Gorskia County and all island associations. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105117	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the required number of votes, so we're going to amendment number three, that's an amendment to MP Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105118	The amendment referred to in Article 33(7) shall not be accepted in view of the implementation of the provision of Article 33(7), depending on the possibilities and the resources provided in the State budget, in the budget item of the ministry. In view of the fact that the State budget projections are made for a three-year period, it is hereby removed and any doubt that the means to implement this measure will not be provided, and in particular from the fact that the subsidy measures have been implemented, the waters have been implemented for 18 years and the proposed law has been further improved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105119	It's obvious, colleague Varda, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105120	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, I have, in fact, given the amendment to this paragraph 7 which you, in the bill of law, states that the supply of water to the island's population, the business of the island settlements from parts of the island settlements where we do not actually have public water supply, will actually be paid from the state budget, as stated in the previous paragraphs 2,3,4,5 and 6, and then in paragraph 7, for which I proposed the amendment, you say depending on the possibilities. That means as much water as money, there's no money in the budget, there's no water in the water. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105121	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the last amendment, again colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105122	The amendment to Article 31 shall not be accepted as a result of the more detailed development of the sublegal act relating to Article 37 of the promotion of competitiveness and growth of entrepreneurship on the islands, shall also take into account the promotion of deficitary occupations on the islands. Based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation on monitoring, analysis and predicting the needs of the labour market for certain titles and drawing up and taking into account recommendations for the HZZ education registration policy, it develops an analysis and forecast of the needs of the labour market for individual qualifications. The analysis shall be carried out on the basis of relevant statistical data as well as current indicators of the employment of unemployed persons according to the programme of education, data from the employer's survey and shall take into account all current strategies and economic development plans both at regional and local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105123	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105124	Thank you very much, distinguished secretary of state, so it's no problem sometimes to admit that you've forgotten something. Therefore, you have forgotten this Article 31 which speaks of the right to free public island road transport to place a category of all employees in deficits who are employed by the employer who carries out the activity on the island. So it's no problem to admit and say so that we made a mistake and it should stand in that article. The problem is, it comes from an opposition representative. So nothing would happen if you accepted this amendment and included it in Article 31. I therefore appeal to my colleagues to accept my proposal and to say in this article, that the right to favoured public island road transport is subject to employees in deficits who are employed by an employer who carries out activities on the island and thus show that you can once accept and fully reasonable and over-supervised proposal coming from the lines of opposition. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-16-0.u105125	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that he has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Island Law, please vote. I find that most of the 103 votes for and 16 abstentions have been passed by the Island Act. We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Boris Milosevic, please.
