ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79465	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, this week already 4 topics for which we are here together today, this time a report on the meetings of the European Council, held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March and the informal European Council held on 23 February. A few introductory words on this subject, which seem important to me, because since our last debate on this topic, we have had a number of other relevant events concerning our active role and promoting Croatian national interests in the obstacle to EU membership. He would single out the speech that I gave before the European Parliament on 6 February, as the 2 heads of government of the Member States, and at the initiative of our friend Antonio Tajani, who introduced this practice and who seems to me to be a very good new model of dialogue between the members of the European Council and the European Parliament, where I highlighted important messages from Croatia, as the newest EU members, who advocates the equality of all EU citizens, for the equality of opportunities and for our joint achievements to show that, within the framework of democratically legitimate European institutions, European policies, European budgets have the greatest use for all our citizens, have an additional value in our development and that the Union in which we joined 5 years ago has its strong, global activity. On that occasion, I also met with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, who has a centre in Strasbourg, Mr. Jaglado, who will soon visit Croatia, where the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and Ministers spoke about it in the day before yesterday, preparing the chairmanship of this organisation for the first time since 22 years of membership since May. He would also single out our meeting with several members of the Government with a colleague of the European Commission, for the first time such a meeting was organised, it was also in February, where we clearly pointed out our priorities, Croatia's entry into the Schengen area, where we have spent the quality of the absorption of the 120m-euro envelope at the time of accession, where the Ministry of Internal Affairs and all other institutions are working to meet the technical criteria and that before our presidency, we can say that what could be done on our part was fully fulfilled and that by 2020 we are also in a position to make a political decision on Croatia's accession to Schengen. There is also our ambition for Croatia to enter the euro zone. You know that together with the CNB, we launched a public debate several months ago, that we stand well by meeting all the necessary criteria and that it is the only remaining one, which is the reduction of public debt, is an important goal we are working on, which, of course, is the implementation of structural reforms, the development of a national reform plan, which, in its final phase, was one of the key issues in our dialogue. There is, of course, the most visible, qualitative and most important, long-term strategic project, which is the construction of the Pelješko bridge, where we have now come to the final stage of preparing the contract with the selected contractor and what will surely remain in these first 7 years as the most concrete achievement in terms of visibility will be this project. Surely, in this process, we also talked about the importance of further EU enlargement, the important elements of our foreign policy with special emphasis on the support of the BiH, support for all constructive peoples, and in particular the great attention that we give to the legal status of the Croatian people in the BIH in everything we do. It was a month and meeting with Secretary General of the North Atlantic Union Jelsa Stoltenberg where we discussed all security aspects and the global security situation, the situation in Europe, the situation in the South East Europe, the continued strength of the defence capabilities of Croatia, participation in numerous NATO missions, strengthening our defence industry and ultimately what you witnessed several weeks ago, a strategic decision on the acquisition of multi-purpose fighter aircraft, making Croatia and its armed forces a long-term capacity for military aviation, making us an even stronger and more important ally in NATO and partner in the EU. As regards this practice, regular reporting, I think it is important that we raise awareness of European topics with this dialogue between the Government and the Croatian Parliament and focus on what is currently important not only in Croatia but also beyond. It is common for the March European Council to have economic topics, jobs, growth, competitiveness, digitalisation of the European Semester and, in particular, at that time, an important trade relationship between the US and the EU when it comes to the issue of customs duties on steel and aluminium. Other topics included our talks on migration, relations with Turkey, the attack in Salisbury, the United Kingdom and the response agreed on at the dinner table during the European Council. In terms of jobs, growth and competitiveness, I would like to make progress in implementing the Single Market Strategy, the Digital Single Market Strategy, progress in building the Union of Capital Markets of the Energy Union. On this side, we stressed the importance of the legislative packages that are related to goods and services during the Bulgarian Presidency and the continuation of the development of the Digital Europe project. It is particularly important to remove other barriers to the labour market, goods and services and to remove remaining regulatory barriers and to establish an integrated digital market that contributes to the growth of the economy and the creation of new jobs. Croatia welcomed the intensification of labour both on the single market and on the digital single market. We want a lot of security of citizens' privacy and their personal data, it's important and that message was very clearly articulated. And you saw that yesterday, at a meeting of the Government, we passed a law or bill that ensures the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation and thus raises the level of data protection of all our citizens. On social issues, dialogue was continued in the European pillar of social rights which was confirmed at the meeting... in Góteborg. The main objective is to establish a fair labour market and achieve convergence, achieve fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion, which will be monitored at national or European level. On this side, we support the Commission's initiative in the framework of the social justice pact and we have called for further ensured fair and effective implementation of the rules on freedom of movement of workers. Croatia, as you know, is a country that counts among those countries with the highest drop in unemployment at the annual level, it is 9.6% today. On this side, Minister Pavić and Minister Murganic and I also spoke with the Secretary-General of the European Union Confederation, Mr Visentini, with whom we hold a very quality and continuous dialogue together with representatives of roof union organisations in the Republic of Croatia as an essential part and a component of our dialogue with our social partners. We want Croatia to continue to raise minimum wage. We, as Government in these two years, have now raised the minimum wage twice by 5%, which has accelerated the trend of the increase compared to previous years. As far as energy was concerned, the EU strategy, diversification of energy supplies, increased energy efficiency, decarbonisation of the economy, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and compliance with the commitments made by the Paris Agreement. The aim is to build a fully integrated energy market. In this context, I will also refer to further activities of Croatia in the construction of a natural gas terminal. I remind you that we have received 101m euros from the European Commission, we have decided on a special law that would regulate this topic. We think it is important that it is also in line with the highest environmental standards, and that its construction of the partnership that will result, the capacity that we will gain in terms of gas supply in the long term, ensure Croatia's energy security. As for the European Semester, we discussed the priorities of the Annual Growth Survey, the recommendations of economic policy in the Eurozone, and confirmed the fact that the European economy is growing. Croatia grew 3.2% last year, Fitch Standard & Poors raised one, one step from BBB to B+ from the most concentrated SNP in stable prospects and thanks to a stable growth in the economy, a strong tourist season, improving public finances of fiscal discipline. We want the activities that will follow at national level not only in implementing these recommendations but in implementing our programme, implementing reforms succeed with that combination of additional investment in structural reforms, responsible fiscal policies to enable further economic growth, continue the trends that we have now and ensure a better quality of life for all of our people. On this side, as you can see, educational reform and judicial reform, public administration reform, announced reform of the pension system, will all be part of the national reform programme for this year. The Council was also addressed by President Mario Draghi of the European Central Bank, who has given a review of the current situation in the economy of the Member States, and in particular has absorbed the strong exports of EU member states and the lowest unemployment rate since 2008, and therefore Europe continues its recovery on the sound foundations of the financial and banking sector on the basis of better regulation and better regulation than before the major global crisis. It also discussed taxation in the context of the digital economy, the debate was led in a way to ensure, above all, the implementation of the short-term measures provided for by the European Commission, so how to tax certain revenues from digital activities and solve in a long-term manner how to register profits and also tax where companies engaged in digital activities make contact with users. This is objectively one of the most sensitive and complex problems faced by many Member States. It's all on the trail of our agreements that were held at a special summit organised by the Estonian presidency in Tallinn. In this respect, Croatia is constantly working on everything we call an e-Citizen project, increasing the number of electronic services that we provide to our citizens, from the requirements for issuing driving licences, requests for e-passages, e-Issuation of certificates on social security users, on the e-born project, on the issue of conviction that criminal proceedings are not being conducted. So the digitalisation project is in the concept of state "no paper" going on and trying to enable our daily life to be adapted to the modern digital world. In particular, it was an interesting discussion on trade issues, you know that due to the broader context of relations with China, the United States introduced import duties on steel and aluminium, in this context practically while the European Council was at night expecting a decision by the US administration that made an exception for EU members. It is 10 and 15% of customs duties on these 2 products, thus enabling further dialogue between the United States and the EU in the context of multilateral forums with a central role, of course, of the world trade organisation. Croatia has supported the continuation and completion of trade negotiations with Merkusur, with Mexico and the conclusion of an agreement with Japan and Singapore. It is about large economies and better quality contractual regulation of trade relations with these countries will be beneficial for both our businessmen and our exporters. As far as migration is concerned, we continued the debate on the Central Mediterranean route, in particular on how to help the countries of Africa, we had a meeting with the countries of Sahel in February, so several African countries of sub-Saharan where there are particularly, extremely large demographic trends, currently these 5 countries have 77 million people, projections that in 15 years there will be around 130 million people. These are the real big strategic challenges for Europe and, on this side, better regulation of relations, better regulation of our entire development policy and all the instruments needed to do so is one of the ways to prevent what is called failed countries, non-functional states, new conflicts, poverty and the general problems facing Africa today, and we are in a situation where, given our geographical position, we take great care of migration flows. It continues to work on the reform of the Dublin Regulation, with an emphasis on prevention, and in particular on the establishment of a common European asylum system as part of the response to the consequences of the 2015/2016 migration crisis, we referred to you yesterday in the 2nd reading of the law transposing the directive on so-called The PNR, therefore to air passengers, is an extremely important legal act intended primarily to prevent terrorism and combat all forms of threats that can occur in this way. On other topics, it is also important to mention the dialogue concerning Turkey. In fact, Bulgaria's presidency decided for the first time since Zagreb 2000, after Thessaloniki in the format of all EU member states and all SEE countries to hold a summit in Sofia on 17 May, to send a strong message of support to reforms, to us neighbouring countries, for us particularly important, I also discussed this with the president of the Bulgarian government, Borisov, a few days ago in Mostar, so Turkey wanted to see that there was a further dialogue with it, and therefore the meeting of leaders in Varna on 26 March was dedicated to the tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean, the situation in Syria, relations between Turkey, Cyprus and Greece that always draw particular attention to two of our Member States, and it is important that we stick to the agreement concerning the support of the provision of numerous refugees, immigrants on its territory, and there is important compliance with the financial obligations by the EU. As far as the enlargement issue is concerned, I expect this summit to give one support, practically before the end of this European Commission's mandate and that at least an indicative one particular dynamic for us neighbouring countries. In 2020, Croatia wants us to repeat that meeting in Zagreb at the November 2000 summit and to send important messages to neighbouring countries 20 years after it is now in the role of the EU Presidency. For us, this topic, given that the current Bulgarian presidency connects to Finland in a very contextual manner, and then Austria's and then Romania's, we have little distance from this part of Europe in Finland and then Croatia again in the first semester of 2020, such a sequence of neighbouring countries that have adjudged to EU membership has long not happened, and therefore we will be working to take advantage of these meetings and that time to encourage reforms, enable them to meet the necessary criteria, and therefore, from the point of view of Croatia's particular assistance, as I said at the beginning of the BIH on its European path. A meeting was held in art format. The 50th, therefore, is about negotiations on the exit of the UK from the EU. Chief negotiator Michel Burnier reported on the results achieved so far, especially those relating to citizens' rights, freedom of movement, financial regulation, transitional periods, and the issue of Ireland and Northern Ireland that will be regulated by the withdrawal agreement. The withdrawal agreement will be adopted by qualified majority at Council level with the previous consent of the European Parliament. What is being discussed in parallel and how to further regulate relations with the UK, so the Council decided to revise guidelines for further talks, to try to find models of a new functional relationship with the UK, which is nevertheless 45 years in membership, the integration of the people, and on this side I want to repeat here that after we have seen Croatia during practically, during the visit of the Maltese President Malta lifted restrictions on freedom of movement for our citizens, after we have discussed on several occasions Prime Minister May and I after Croatian diplomacy worked intensively on that, after the negotiator Burnier helped, we sent a letter to the prime minister of the UK. She responded to this letter and said that the UK has abolished restrictions on the movement, free movement of people of Croatian citizens since 1 July, and thus the restrictions on the 2+3+2 formula in terms of two plus three plus two years practically remain only after 1 July 2018 in Slovenia, Austria and the Netherlands. So, only three to 27 Member States retain that restriction, and we continue the talks with them. The dinner was dedicated, to the greatest extent of the discussion of the Salsbury attack, as you know, the attack was organised against former Russian servicemen who crossed over several years ago to the UK side. Prime Minister May has thoroughly reported the course of the investigation, the information they have. It is a new case of an attack with a nerve poison that has not been remembered for a long time and which has led Member States to decide to solidarity with the UK in several ways, from a strong conviction to measures that have been made diplomatically or to ban some Russian diplomats from the Member States or by withdrawing their diplomats from consultations. Croatia has been solidarity here in terms of which you know very well and what we informed the public about two weeks ago. Also, I will mention a meeting of the informal council in February, which was important because of several topics. One was the debate on changing the number of representatives in the European Parliament following the UK exit. The number of present representatives from 751 is reduced to 705. The Republic of Croatia gets instead of 11, 12 MPs, which, of course, is good and is consistent with our demographic strength. On the other hand, no proposal for the establishment of transnational lists has been passed, it has been estimated that there is simply too little time for such a step. To amend national electoral legislation, to amend everything relating to the financing of such a campaign that would assume that candidates are elected in all Member States, which brings, objectively speaking, into an unequal position of different political groups and different candidates from Member States. The issue of reducing the number of European commissioners per Member State has also been removed. There was one intention that they would eventually shrink. However, it was quite evident from the appearance of all that the time for reducing such a number had not matured. A French initiative for consultation with citizens was also supported here a few days ago by French Minister for Europe Nathalie Loiseau, which is an initiative complementing this dialogue with citizens who are also leading the Commission at the level of Member States when visiting Commissioners and in cooperation with Member States' officials. We've had several such dialogues. Today there is one where Commissioner Katainen is here in Zagreb and Secretary of State Metelko Zgombić and the French minister also had such dialogue at the Faculty of Political Sciences on 6 April. The debate is also being held on negotiations on a multi-annual financial framework, a topic which is becoming practically the most important. In these talks, I expressed Croatia's clear view that as a country that takes care of cohesion policy, we want still strong funds for both agriculture and even regional development, but we also want funds to contribute to employment, funds that will contribute to young people, education, demographic revitalisation and all that concerns improving the Croatian economy and better use of funds than it has ever been. We also had talks in Zagreb. Meanwhile, here was German Commissioner Mr Ettinger, with whom we discussed the issue which is particularly important at this time at EU level, which will be held negotiations with the goal of being completed around May next year before the new commission, before the new parliament. On the other hand, Croatia has also shown its readiness to add to the European budget. We think it's important, there are several countries that are reserved there. We're talking about the context of the United Kingdom's exit. You know for a fact that a dozen of the most developed members are practically funding 80% of the budget. We have, and we have also spoken on the current clock, taken everything in our power to speed up and increase the process of project preparation, to simplify procedures, to make a good mix of European funds using what we can get from the European Investment Bank. We are also conducting a dialogue yesterday in Luxembourg where Minister Žalac was. A number of developmental character projects where these resources can help us to realise our priorities. In any case, what I want to say is that in all our performances, we show how time passes and one active approach. We wish to send a message of belonging to the internal circle of the Member States. We believe that this is the place where Croatia should be, take advantage of all possibilities and only by confirming that we want to build this European project and on the principles of protecting our national interests, firmly belonging to the values of this peace project for the past 70 years, the project that is there, which will remain, and which we must build not only on our contribution, but also give it concrete content. On this side, I can say that we will closely monitor how both Bulgaria and Romania will carry out their presidency, and then focus on all of our preparations for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79466	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's go to the replicas. We have a total of 10 replicas. The first is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79467	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, a few days ago we learned a draft settlement in the Agrokor case. The draft shows that the main role in the future of Agrokor will be played by Russian banks and the US Investment Fund. Please tell us to the representatives and the Croatian public to what extent and whether this has to do with the future of the energy sector in Croatia to be precise with the gasification of the Refinery of Oil in the Bosnian Ship, with the construction of LNG terminals and with the finding of a strategic partner for INA because you announced a year ago that you will, meaning that there will be no longer a strategic partner, so Hungarians. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79468	The Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79469	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Lovrinovic, for this matter. So you know the ownership structure of Agrokora depends primarily on those creditors and credit institutions where the former owner and former management took loans. You know very well, follow the processes of the Croatian bank, European banks, American banks, Russian banks. This has been about the sequence in recent years as we have come to the situation that now those who are the greatest believers at this point in the bargaining process have when it ends in terms of ownership in the future new Agrokor's largest share. It doesn't matter if you want to do it with the Rafineria Oil Ship, or the energy sector or the LNG terminal. There's only a fact that whoever gave the money remains a believer and he has nothing but to become a part of the property. And this shows that we have no prejudice against anyone... whether they're American funds or Russian banks. And that is an important message of responsible economic activity. Because this is the economy here and that's my impression from all the talks with representatives and SBER banks and WTB.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79470	Thank you. The second is a replica of a respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79471	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, for saying hello to Mr. Prime Minister and his associates. Mr. President, I have two short questions regarding your exposure. So, you referred to your speech as the five-lingual one in Brussels. It seems to me that at the time of the European Parliament MP Anna Maria Coraze Bildt called on countries that did not ratify the Istanbul Convention to do so. I have information that, after that, she came to Croatia on your call, in a way to promote the topic. So I don't know, I'm asking you just to confirm or deny it. And the second question is, what you said about sanctions for Russia. So the moment is definitely very sensitive given everything that's going on in the Middle East. In that sense, I wanted to ask if you were communicating with the president of the state since she was calling on the Russian president the moment we, in fact, imposed sanctions on Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79472	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79473	Thank you very much, Mr. Glavasevic. As far as the speech is concerned, he was in Strasbourg, as regards Mrs. Coraza Bildt, she is a representative of Swedish moderates, she is part of a group of the European People's Party, she raised this topic among others and some other topics at the EPP Club meeting where I was a guest, we know each other very well, we talked, but she was not in the meantime at least as far as I know in Croatia, otherwise she and her husband have a house in Korčula, so if she was, it was possible that she was private, but we had no contact and there was nothing to do with the conversation we discussed in the Assembly. As for the second topic, of course, that we talked to the President of the Republic, very thoroughly looked at all aspects and made common decisions, since such issues were absolutely necessary by consensus of all state institutions on issues which also have external-political repercussions, you saw that the consequences were not in any way dramatic, meaning the responsible decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79474	Third replica, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79475	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you said the Union has strong global activities. I think it is time for Croatia to reconsider its membership in the last 5 years. Croatia has paid in the EU register 3.5 to 4 billion euros and so far we have certified about 3% of the funds, so make it clear and clear how to raise those funds where Croatian citizens are paying billions and only 3% is returned. We serve the EU at the expense of Croatian citizens. Have you shown yourself perhaps about demographics, about agriculture, about shipbuilding? Have you, perhaps, had the courage to talk about it and refer it to the procedure? It's a loud and loud time for you to say when you're going to start running a sovereign policy and not agree to be a Brussels chateau.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79476	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79477	I'd like to thank Representative Panj, I'm sorry, Bulj, but I've come to think of the Chovik series and the popo series, and whenever you perform, you remind me so much of Franjo. What I'm trying to tell you is that the government, myself personally, all together, is firmly representing Croatia's national interests. What you're putting into your rhetoric is that you're so-called. You either don't know what we're doing or you don't have a very good sense of what Croatia's international position means in 2018 or you have slept through that the strategic goals of state policy from our President of the First Tudjman were EU membership and NATO membership, as well as the Council of Europe. If you slept through it, your party, I allow it but unlike you, we behave exactly as is the Croatian national interest and we know how to implement it. And your easy comments, you can only talk to each other for coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79478	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79479	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I have listened to you for half an hour about the situation on the Council of Europe, about the European Commission, but you have not answered our key question. What happens after the European elections, we all know, is the EPP Congress, the European People's Party in Zagreb, which will elect prominent persons, or candidates for the Commission's leadership, or other EU functions. It's the birds on the branch that tell me that you're one of the candidates for the lead. It even mentions the European Commission's leading position as Mr Juncker. It is your right to run anywhere but since you are Croatian Prime Minister, I believe that all representatives in the Croatian Parliament and all citizens must know your ambitions in this regard. If you want to run for the European Parliament, the European Commission or elsewhere, that is what we need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79480	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79481	I thank Representative Zekanovic for your question. I see that you do not have a very good sequence when this EPP congress, the EPP Congress that will be in Croatia, will be in 2019, it is an extremely great honor for HDZ, but it is after all these decisions you are talking about, before that will be another EPP congress that will take place in Helsinki this fall. I am already on these media speculations probably played by someone like you, who wants to tuck in here a little bit and create feelings that it may be a different priority to me than the job of the Prime Minister, I have already responded very clearly to that, so if you want that answer, my ambition is to be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, to work in the interest of Croatian citizens, to fulfill what I went to the elections in September. You were with us then on the list and followed and supported our program, and I expect the same from you, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79482	Next replica, dear colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79483	Dear Prime Minister, you are saying that Croatia is a social state and that you are going in this direction, but your policy towards the blocked could not be called that because Croatia is the only EU member state where the executions are carried out without judicial judgements. This is a serious problem and therefore other EU countries do not recognise the executive solutions of our public notaries. And I'd just like to give you one more detail. You're saying we're recording a record drop in unemployment. It is true for Prime Minister Plenkovic, to record a record drop in unemployment but it is the result of the eviction that has taken place in your government's era of epidemics. So the decline of the unemployed is not the result of the economic miracle of the HDZ government or I don't know the 180 000 jobs that Ivana Maletic promised or who did, but the pure result of a completely missed demographic and economic policy because these people no longer see hope in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79484	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79485	Thank you very much. Representative Pernar, when it comes to a problem blocked and one huge problem affecting a large number of our fellow citizens, the government of the Republic of Croatia, especially the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, is working on three fundamental directions. The first is to find an appropriate legal framework for the write-off of part of the debt relating to the country itself. The second is to create assumptions about the write-off of part of the debts of certain other institutions, which many of our fellow citizens have their accounts blocked. And the third is to be working on a change and a better, better quality consumer bankruptcy. These are the three key directions we are working to facilitate this problem and this pact will be presented by finance and justice ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79486	The next is a respected counterpart, Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79487	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister. You said there was an informal dinner to discuss the attack in Salisbury. Given the importance of Croatia's strategic partnership with Great Britain as well as the importance of partnership with Russia that is now involved in many acute issues in Croatia itself, I would like to ask you if British Prime Minister May presented at dinner evidence that Russia is behind the attack in Salisbury or has only asked that the Member States of the Union are solidarity with the UK itself which can be verbally through without taking concrete measures since they relate to the assurances of the evidence that they have been presented? That's one question. The second question, how do you interpret the Russian unusual move to declare himself foreign minister's chief of staff? If that's a message, I realize that you have to solidarity with the UK, we'll forget, no problem or you shouldn't have done that, we'll create problems in some other issues that are important to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79488	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79489	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic. You have a lot of experience, it would be a little awkward for me to now convince all the details of what Teresa May said directly in a three-hour debate between me and the other heads of state and the government at that meeting. But these arguments were transferred several times to multiple levels and through multiple channels, she then had the freshest information. The information we received was also verified by several other Member States and were therefore quite convincing and were therefore such conclusions and therefore a number of Member States, each of which is almost only three or four others who have not done so, let's just say, nothing at all. So that solidarity was much greater than it could have been in the debate here. We made a choice, the Russian Federation fought back selectively, I think it speaks enough about how justified our move was and how appropriate it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79490	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79491	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government. Although my question is not directly related to these reports, it certainly is. In fact, four out of five Croatian citizens believe they are buying less quality products than they are in other Member States. The European Commission has provided 800,000 euros for research that will take place in May and 16 countries have appeared in that survey. The Republic of Croatia has not reported, and according to MEP Biljana Borzana, who is very active in the field. What I'm interested in now, given that these analyses are going to be done, it's going to be chemical, sensory analysis, it's not just about food products, so it's about a whole range of products that are on the shelves of our shops. What do you, as president of the Croatian government and finally Croatian Government, intend to do in the future in order to put this important issue on the agenda, and at the end of the Croatian Parliament in strengthening legislation to prevent such phenomena? Because this isn't about quality because of the technological but deliberate cheating of consumers...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79492	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79493	Thank you, Your Honor. We discussed this on the European Council, it seems to me either in October or in December, so we discussed it here as well. It may have been a few months now and it's forgotten, but then we're absolutely very strong at it, not just us, but a number of Middle Eastern European countries where the analysis established different qualities of the same products. The European Commission recognized that, Juncker said in his speech in September, I think, working to strengthen legislation. All the countries that have found themselves in the situation that the objects of such inequality have very clearly articulated their position, we speak it through a series of Council working bodies. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is also working on this. And at European Council level, a decision has already been made to end such differences, with our strong activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79494	Next up, dear colleague Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79495	Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. The report you provided tells us about the conclusions of the European Council on the condemnation of the attack in Salisbury, showing solidarity with the UK because you were responding to something from your colleague Klisovic to do so, the question is what similar he referred you to. However, the conclusions of the European Council as we read them did not oblige individual Member States to banish Russian diplomats, there is no word on that. Well, not all Member States have, for example, done it to us in neighbouring Slovenia. Croatia has, in part, explained this, but my question is to eat this decision in order to say in a constitutional dictionary co-created with the President of the Republic who practically called on the president of the Russian Federation to visit the Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79496	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79497	Thank you very much, Mr. Podolnjak. Yeah, that decision was sucreated, we had a meeting of the entire state summit and all the competent services on that subject and we verified all the information we have, so it's consensual, there was no difference. That's number one. Number two, it is true that you cannot find such a formulation of this activity in the text of the conclusions of the European Council. You can find a formulation stronger than it was in the draft on the degree of conviction of the attack, but it was the product of a political leader's agreement very clear oral during that dinner with a move to make every country think about what it can do. And it was passed after all the analyses and on the trail of solidarity with a kind of attack that has really not been seen for years for the territory of a permanent member of the Security Council, our allies in NATO and our partners in the EU, so we made that decision and made it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79498	Thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague of the Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79499	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, here's the report you gave us. You mentioned briefly in the presentation also this importance with regional development and therefore, and the preparation set out for the next EU programming period. What I think we are doing is too little, in fact, we had a recent report by the European Commission, where it has made an extremely unfavorable reference to our public administration reform, to reform too little, to have a particularly territorial fragmentation and that relations between all levels of government that prevent us from using EU funds more effectively are actually complex. I believe that the task of you as Prime Minister is, of course, to encourage more of these processes because unfortunately, we did not take advantage of the extent to which we needed EU funds, they were particularly important for the development of rural space, let us not let that happen to us in the next programming period and listen more to the European Commission and what we have actually promised to do with the national reform plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79500	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79501	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Croatian Government is currently working on finalising a new national reform programme, working continuously to simulate the procedures of existing operational programmes, it is one of the basic tasks, and once these programmes have negotiated, agreed, agreed with the European Commission, we have not had the experience of being a member, now I see that in walking through learned lessons, there I do not want to shift the responsibility of whose government was then, objectively we can talk about it, but I also think that these arrangements were made in good faith, but perhaps not based on considering all the real needs from the level of different units of local and regional self-government and other entities that are users. Our goal, as I said, is to reach an agreement of 60% of the entire envelope, all 10.5 billion euros this year, and to use this positive dynamic to make the financial perspective of that N+3 make maximum use of up to 2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79502	Thank you. And we're going to the last line. Dear colleague Mader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79503	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Prime Minister. We are all aware that a small Republic of Croatia has withdrawn funds from EU funds, but at the same time the last 7.4. tender, which is unfortunately expected to be units of local self-government for almost a year, there have been 464 projects that have only passed, all have passed the procedure, but the funds have been for 102 projects, so I'm curious why? And like this, we didn't withdraw funds from the EU, and why didn't all those who went through the procedure of all 464 projects pass the procedure, and there was only funding for 102 projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79504	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79505	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So as I said, therefore, all the competent ministries that the implementing bodies of these programmes are working on accelerated absorption are working on a greater quality of their work, on the flow and documentation of preparation and arrangements, and ultimately on certification and payment. Different programmes of different allocated financial resources. What's at your disposal is trying to fulfill it. There's one dose of flexibility that can be re-purposed, but unfortunately it's not too big. From today's perspective, when you talk to colleagues who are involved daily, it seems to me that this word flexibility of change for a number of reasons would be the best solution for many of the specific difficulties we have faced, and perhaps in time we would be more meaningful to allocate funds for projects that would be more useful to us. The same thing is true of this example that you state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79506	Thank you. We're going to a club debate now. The first is the club of HDZ deputies and respected counterpart Marijana Balic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79507	Thank you very much, Your Honor. President-in-Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary and Assistants, esteemed MPs and MPs. I thank the Prime Minister for the comprehensive report on the European Council meetings held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March, as well as in the informal European Council on 23 March. As a Club of HDZ Representatives, I welcome this kind of regular reporting of the Croatian Parliament whose purpose and importance is to naturally and familiarise Croatian citizens with the general political and economic situation in the Union, and with key measures and processes taken from the highest political level. In the new political and security circumstances in which the world is located, we need a stronger and more responsible role of the EU that will clearly articulate its priorities on the global agenda. The constructive contribution to the continuation of the European project is also made by the Republic of Croatia. Expressing our position at meetings of the European Council where we are evenly discussing and participating in the development of common solutions and on current crises and priorities for the future of the Union. The HDZ Club is dedicated to continuing the construction of the European project and European values. We firmly advocate that the future of the EU determines the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of European institutions, the approximation of Europe and its policies to citizens and the clearer and more concrete use of a number of benefits provided by the European budget. In the fifth year of Croatia's membership, it is on its clear path towards closer integration within the EU, which requires us to continue and speed up a number of reform processes that this government has launched. Our strategic goals are clear. Joining the Schengen area, joining the euro area and introducing the euro, and continuing to increase the absorption of European funds guaranteeing the realization of numerous development projects in the Republic of Croatia. It is certain that in this financial framework, the project of building the Peljega Bridge with access roads will be our biggest strategic infrastructure project. However, in Croatia's further perspective, it will be very important to link effectively the use of European funds for the realisation of another major and capital project, which solves the core of the problem of an unequal period of the same RH with the rest of the country, which is the Slavonia project. This is a key distribution of political priorities, i.e. financial resources in the next multiannual financial framework, which currently leads to intensive final discussions. The new framework for the planning of the seven-year European budget comes not only in complex political security and global moments, but also in the new circumstances of the United Kingdom of the Union. One of the significant payers in the budget, which creates a financial deficit space in the European budget. With all the new challenges facing Brexit security issues, the consolidation of EU 27 that should not be ignored in any way, we believe that new priorities and new political initiatives should not be financed at the expense of existing programmes and policies. The HDZ Club, respecting the new circumstances mentioned in the Union, also advocates a rational but ambitious approach that will retain adequate funding for traditional EU policies. Cohesion and common agricultural policies, i.e. those policies that are developed and which, by their realisation in a concrete and tangible way, have a positive impact on the everyday lives of people and reduce regional developments, i.e. policies, which provide an important additional value for European citizens. In this context, we also advocate the simplification of financial and other rules for our farmers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen and other end-users. Multiplying the effect, quality and smart use of European funds is significantly greater than the financial contribution... Croatia is paying into the European budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, even a slight increase in financial payments to the European budget would have no greater effects on the balance sheet in the domestic budget, especially in the conditions when we are making a budget surplus, i.e. if better results continue, which Croatia achieves in the absorption of European funds and in the negotiation of new projects. This has also united the incentive for all resolutions to coordinate and speed up the preparation and implementation of European projects even better. Taking into account the topics dominated by the European Council of Jobs, Growth and Competitiveness of Digitalisation and European Semesters, the encouraging fact is that the Prime Minister in Brussels could represent positive results, which our economy is achieving. By creating this, by placing Croatia amongst the circles of those European countries that have the fastest economic growth and the fastest fall in public debt. In addition, data from 60,000 more employees this year drop to 9.6% of the budget surplus, raising Croatia's credit rating to PB to PB plus stable prospects, are indicators that Croatia is going in the right direction. But it's also a real incentive to continue reform efforts. Consistent implementation of a new national reform programme, primarily in this year which is not electoral, will determine the dynamics of judicial reform in public administration education, pension system, which Croatia must implement if we want to see more economic growth. A better atmosphere for business and work and ultimately a better standard of living for people. The HDZ Club is pleased to see another representative in Croatia after the next elections for the European Parliament as a result of the UN and its representatives leaving. We support the express views of the Prime Minister on retaining the model of leading candidates that promotes the transparency of European elections, as well as the opposing idea of reducing the number of European Commissioners. We welcome the continued development of the Prime Minister, that the issue of EU enlargement, particularly for the countries of Southeast Europe, and especially for the BIH, which is our strategic interest, retains its place on the agenda of the European institutions. The HDZ Club also agrees with the announced priorities during the Croatian Presidency of the Council of Europe in the first half of 2020, including growth, development, integration and enlargement. Finally, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the reports in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79508	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleague Balic, therefore, although of course after every data it is important how they are interpreted, he is right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79510	I'm sorry, it's my fault, because clubs, they're my fault because they're clubs. I already thought we'd moved on to an individual debate, so I got a little speedy together. But now a colleague will have the word "Live Wall" and "SNAGA", word, respected representative Branimir Bunjac, please. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next Club of Representatives is now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Honorary Representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, once again, to the Prime Minister with his associates. So what we should talk about today is actually on track to what I wanted to tell my colleague, Balic. The data presented here on Croatia's progress may be accurate, however, we should be very careful about how we interpret them. The European Commission is in its last... The report was presented by a lot more fences than Col. Balic, in her presentation on behalf of the club, interpreted it, so, on the basis of this, the SDP Representatives Club believes that we still need to see more progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without delay on this subject, the SDP Representatives' Club will be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79512	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak, she is gone, she loses her right to speak. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Dodig will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79513	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I've never come to the sixth floor before, and now there's not two debaters, club representatives, so it's going incredibly fast. The question of why did it happen like that? The Prime Minister introduces one practice, which is that he reports on what he was doing and what was happening in international politics where Croatia is very involved and people reported on behalf of clubs are not there and the Parliament is half empty. The question is, what's going on? What's going on? Either it is really interesting to hear what happened when it comes to Croatia's role in the EU and the European Council, or they have ruled that there are not enough incident details to discuss now. I think it's both, and when I put it in the context of what's going on in Croatia, then it's really time to ask ourselves what's going on? For the last week in Croatia, at least the media has been watching an incredible b hourly debate, a burning event that should change the image of Croatian society. Even in the Parliament, however, suddenly we see that everything has fallen apart. At least this one right here. And the question is, does it make sense to think about how we behave? Yesterday I needed to look a little, a quiet fellow Mrsic, please. So yesterday I had a need to watch a little congregation archive so I watched and tried to see what they were saying in the 19th century MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And I wonder what happened two centuries later, and what is the level of the debate then, what is the level of relations between the parliamentary representatives and the chairman of the Parliament, and what is today? We thought that technology had improved our communication and that we were communicating better now, but unfortunately that's not the case. There was no insult, there was no underestimation, there was not so much shame that no one was ashamed, that no one was ashamed today of what he had mispronounced or wrongly done. So people apologized to each other, people debated each other fiercely, but in one completely different way. And now he's coming back to what's here today, Mr. Prime Minister, I deeply appreciate this desire and practice you've introduced to inform us. I deeply appreciate and think that this is something we should respect very much because in this way we are spared often by arbitrary inscriptions, arbitrary reporting and false information, really speaking false information that we receive through various presses, various portals about what is happening at EU and Council of Europe level. Here we can ask you directly and express our views. And it is a step that exceeds the expectations of all those who deal with politics in Croatia because so far it has not been, but it is not appreciated. Only conflict and conflict-level functioning are valued. As you know, that's what I publicly said, in some things we don't agree either, and in this vote on the Istanbul Convention. But on the other hand, I am aware of the responsibility of the Prime Minister and the Government, on the one hand, and of the other hand, the parliamentary representative in the Parliament. I have the right to vote on a point where such a world-wide question is on your conscience and you yourself said it is possible and so be it. But I am also aware that my responsibility is entirely different from your responsibility, and that is why I would not want it to happen, if it were to be identified, my disagreement with the Istanbul Convention, my relationship with state policy and the current government. and according to the current government. I don't see a better solution at this point, at this point a better solution for the Croatian state than the total policy you run except for this segment where there are reserves. I'll express it by voting. But I also ask the MPs to make sure that the cheap political points that are obtained which have become white-collar opposition, not opposition but in one segment of this current political moment that this is important but not more important than that part of responsibility to the overall functioning of the state as such. And whoever questions this, I think his story of the sovereignty of the Croatian state without any responsibility, without any analysis of what this means in the current political opportunities both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe and in international other institutions is an empty story. It's just politics and nothing else. So I support this report of yours, and I support the fact that this government has been very positive in the last year, that it has brought us into a situation that we can think much more casually and act much more casually in a policy that provides for a better standard, which gives hope that every citizen will be better, which gives hope that we will solve the problem of the blocked, which gives hope that we will gain this sense of sovereignty through a better standard, through the democracy shown in the House but not democracy in a way that can be offended. And that is why the HDS, HSLS and HDSB support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79514	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Pupovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79515	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to say a few things on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party club about this prime minister's report, and I'm going to start with the next one. In fact, it is an incredible speed or an incredible ease with which we are losing interest in what is happening on the European Council, whether at ministerial meetings or in other forms and other bodies of EU work, the European Commission. It is actually an amazing way to stop being interesting, important not only to the Croatian public but also to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. After so many years of enthusiasm, after so much energy invested, then exactly the national energies of thousands of people working on the integration process. We suddenly feel like we no longer have any interest in where we came from, what we have entered and which determines the good portion of the fate of our country and our citizens and the circumstances in which we live. It is good that the prime minister is persistent and that, independently of such an atmosphere, he is doing what he is convinced to do both in the Parliament and in society, which is his constitutional obligation to inform the Parliament and to inform the public about the affairs in which he participates, in which members of the government participate when they are in the context of the European institution. But what's not good is the fact that we have no interest in, that our working bodies of the Parliament have less and less interest in it. That's not good. Of course, there's something else wrong, but this is not the time to talk about it. Another thing I want to say is don't let the prime minister mind that there will be something broader than what he was talking about is the issue of peace in Europe, trust in Europe and, unfortunately, the process of increased arms in the EU, in EU member states. So in 2012, the EU received one of the most prestigious prizes awarded in the world, which is the Nobel Peace Prize. The EU has won the award due to peace policy, confidence policy and human rights policy. Unfortunately, today in the EU itself, trust between countries is being violated, trust is being violated, and human rights are rarely being violated, and the EU itself is being squeezed between global conflicts is at risk of jeopardising peace in different aspects, either because of its global obligations, or because of the fact that some of the global conflicts are moving most or most precisely to European territory and to the space of EU member states. This is another topic that we in Croatia must not be deaf and blind to things that concern the EU, and so do we. So what we would like to see and hear and what we should support and in which we should support this government's policy as well as any other Croatian government, which is to strengthen the EU's capacity in defence of peace, in preserving peace not only with military capacities, although they also show themselves in some aspects of the inevitable, but not always the happiest, when countries that need serious economic investment, serious economic growth, and there are many, among them and ours, must stand out to strengthen their military capacities. This is a subject that we need to pay great and important attention to. The third thing I would like to say concerns the extreme caution that we as a country and the EU must have when it comes to protecting the European space or the EU from all the challenges global political processes face in this regard. The issue of security and the issue of migration is certainly two issues that pose a major challenge for our country in the most serious way, and we are dealing with this for the EU, but it is very difficult to deal with. What it was not possible to imagine until yesterday, either in London or elsewhere, that people who are different skin color or who speak different languages in a public place and in a public space are recognised as a potential threat. It is something that threatens civil trust, interethnic trust in the EU, and unfortunately this is happening. It is extremely important in this sense that we in our country preserve it, and it is extremely important that we in our country reduce as many potential conflicts and latent conflicts as possible, such as some of the discussions we are having on a recent basis. And the last thing I want to say is the issue of active EU policy and our active foreign policy when it comes to South East Europe. There are several very important and open issues is the issue of enlargement, it is a matter of stability within BiH and within BiH's relationship, it is a question of Kosovo and the issue of Macedonia. And in this respect, it seems to me that Mr. Prime Minister has a lot of space, not always a comfortable space, not always a risk-free space, but a place where we, as a member of the EU, could play a slightly greater role than we do right now, we can play our own questions, or when it comes to enlargement policy, but also when it comes to resolving issues that still burden some countries in our neighbourhood, such as the issue of BiH, such as the Kosovo issue, and unfortunately the issue of Macedonia. Indeed, it is not of little importance on the one hand that all three people in BiH have a feeling, a full sense of equality on the one hand, and on the other hand that BiH is a country full of stability in a format in which it is possible to guarantee today. The same is true when it comes to resolving the dispute still in place in the area of Kosovo, especially when it comes to the application of the Brussels Agreement and finding a solution when it comes to the Brussels agreement. So these are things that we consider important, important, that as much as we think some of our internal issues are more important at the moment, but these issues are without a doubt issues that determine internal relations in the Republic of Croatia. For this reason, Mr. Prime Minister, we support your report, as we support your efforts not to put the subject of the work of the European bodies aside, not to be outside the focus of the representatives and the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, whether we agree or not to agree on which type of Europe we are fighting, whether Europe that will be more integrated or Europe that will be based on so-called. to the sovereign democracies and their interlinkages. And what is most important is to prevent the negative trends that the EU has as a space of peace, as a place of respect for the highest constitutional values that the modern world and Europe and also our countries have inherited and has as a basis for their societies and their countries. They encourage some facts, there are some people here today who say we better go in the direction in which the current policy goes, for example. The current Polish government, but on the other hand, encourages the fact that organised people such as former Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk, and today the president of the European Council and his party, according to current surveys, jumped 15% in public support and was almost even with the ruling party. So it's not that it's not worth holding a course that protects what was protecting Europe in '45. here from instability, conflict and internal destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79516	Thank you very much. And the last club of representatives is that of GLAS and HSU's name, which will be spoken by respected representative Vesna Pusic, I also apologize to her because I had no information that she had replaced the place, so I thought she was gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, and thank you for your understanding, the European Affairs Committee has had a meeting with Commissioner King, so I have asked for this concession. Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Secretary of State from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. I see these discussions on the report from the council meetings more as one occasion, that is, the reason that every so, once a month, every time in Parliament, we talk about the EU. I think important on a number of levels, among other things, because it is a political space where many decisions are made that directly affect Croatian citizens and a place that we still very often view as them, in other words as a place where others make decisions for us. The very fact that the Croatian prime minister, Croatian ministers, sits in the councils that are the most decision-making bodies in the EU, says that they do not exist, and they are you and we are to the extent that we are capable, prepared and organized to discuss, solutions, ideas that come from our environment, so as far as Croatia is concerned, impose or argue, I mean by imposing, explain as important, relevant, acceptable to the EU. In order to be more successful at this, this debate is one step but I certainly think there should be an extended debate on decisions, policies, new topics on the EU agenda much outside the Croatian Parliament. One of the reasons why the EU seems to be something so far away and unusual though the topics are often very similar to those that we are discussing here is that in Croatian society we are discussing all-powerful things but very, very rarely on topics that are on the agenda and that occupy the EU. And which we as participants in that decision will be in a position to decide and be in a position to influence them. And I think a good initiative would be to transfer some of these topics that we are discussing and not discussing and listening to and not listening to in the Parliament, to the general public, into Croatian society. The absolute and Croatian prime minister, ministers, different people who participate at different levels in decision-making in EU bodies, also have the opportunity to launch certain initiatives, have the opportunity to find allies for certain initiatives. In times of increased fear of global destabilising and uncertainty, Southeast Europe has been re-intentioned, unfortunately we as one segment of Europe always gain meaning in a situation of semi-crisis mainly due to known history, centuries-old not only of 20 years. But this part of Europe has been given meaning from that point of view of the security initiative but not only to security, related topics such as the economy, such as education, such as culture, have also been relevant and can also be initiated from our part of Europe. And I think it would be a good initiative for this House and our Committee on European Affairs to open up about these initiatives that could be Croatian initiatives or at least initiated as Croatian, so that they can eventually become a wider alliance, so that they can open up a much wider public debate, not only in Parliament, but in a debate in society, and to realise from that what is possible to realize is perception, feeling and a real situation where citizens have some impact on what is being discussed there. It is not impossible, it is not unfortunately, to say a broad political practice in Croatia, but it is absolutely possible and certainly contributes to the perception of the EU as something where we are co-owner, rather than to something where they rule or decide. One of the opportunities given to us, and the prime minister mentioned the Estonian Presidency here, is given to us in the framework of the Croatian Presidency. As its topic, the Estonian Presidency took on a digital society, hence the digital state, but the digital society and Estonia from below 2 million inhabitants were affirmed by certainly European but almost globally as a country of top policies in the digital sphere, top-of-the-line equipment, in this respect as almost one country leader in the area. This is an indication that it is possible for small countries, and from that point of view it would be very good to have a clear picture of what such a Croatian topic would be. What we, with everything we have to do as a country that presides in the six months, will be an additional topic with which Croatia will present itself and affirm itself. One such topic can be a small startup of the company, it is something that in Croatia more and more seem to be talented young people starting to start and become successful at it. Another possibility is, say, ecological agriculture, the third option is some aspects of culture since it will in some ways overlap with the year in which Rijeka will be the European capital of culture. But I think it would be good to discuss this issue as a cause, so to speak, I think it would be good for Croatia to define a specific topic through which it will be affirmed, which will become our trademark, and then, of course, the basis for our influence within European institutions in deciding on this subject, of course, this topic must be not only the one that is important to us, but also the one in which we are good or at least we are starting to be good. Another topic about this report is the topic of migration. That's, of course, what I would say is a diminishingly called migration theme, it's a security issue, it's a refugee topic, it's a topic where Europe seriously blew up three years ago to say, seriously divided. And I don't think she has fully understood to date what direction this issue of refugees is a challenge for new EU policies. There are security policies, of course, what is mentioned is a reform of the Dublin regulation that is completely inappropriate for these situations because it speaks of illegal migrants, and it does not talk about global global crises, so what happened was a global crisis, not a question of illegal migrants, so it is a security issue, but it is largely a political warning on the subject of cyber security. Because as the greatest threat to the migrant, or refugee crisis, it is presented and politically used in countries where virtually no refugee is present. In countries where none of those 2 million, a million and a half people who entered that wave remained in Europe. Which shows that political crisis can be made out of any topic in both the country and European proportions, both in European institutions and in European cohesion between Member States, not because of the events themselves, but using cyber hackers, in fact using cyber attacks and creating alternative realities through these channels and through this is causing a global European crisis. There have been natural indications before about let's say Orban Kaczyn Europe vis-à-vis Makron Merkel to Europe. However, I will not use the harsh word, but an absolutely elevated and politically extreme situation in response to refugees in those countries where the reactions are most severe. It shows what cyber attack means, which means cyber security, and to what extent it is a subject that is relevant to the EU, but absolutely relevant to Croatia because if it can be carried out at half a billion people, imagine what and which of the kalfa in that business can do in one country of 4 million people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79518	.../Intruder Reiner: I would ask only colleagues, not those who sit, but those who are on the side to say a little quieter that colleagues Pusic can
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79519	.../Intruder Pusic: They must be excited about my reaction./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79520	.../Intruder Reiner: can speak normally. Here you go, fellow Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79521	Thank you very much. So, finally, two topics that are kind of reflected in us, which we don't talk about very much. One we may be talking about more, but it will absolutely reflect on us both during the process and in the final process, it is a question of enlargement because at this point enlargement is de facto to our neighbouring countries and our role in this process within the EU and our real desires and goals. The approach to this issue with the fig in the pocket is counterproductive and therefore we must look very honestly at what is our interest here and behind this interest to act in accordance with this interest and finally the topic we are not talking about, and it will be significant, so if you want to see the issue of Brexit, that is, the exit of Great Britain from the EU, which will have many consequences, but one small consequence, insignificant consequences for the EU, but the significant consequences for the Republic of Croatia will be the fact that the Republic of Croatia will get one member of the European Parliament more and in this respect have an opportunity to be further strongly represented there. It's something to take care of, too. The Voice Club and HSU will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79522	Thank you very much. You see how you caused the excitement on the side because still my appeal failed to continue speaking. Like you, there was a situation with a colleague of the Bunjec who was on the board, so this one, I got from the service of the information that he had right and had announced it, has the right to speak, so now on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, she will speak and share her time with her colleague Pernar. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79523	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Given this report on the EU we have now heard, I would like to look back at a few details, and the key one is the ban on Russian diplomats. So, the Republic of Macedonia expelled a Russian diplomat, a completely innocent man based on speculation. Based on speculation from British intelligence that the Russians may have been carrying out a nerve-toxin attack on one of their state's in the United Kingdom. And since, therefore, we've had the intrusion not to say gossip, the Prime Minister has decided, therefore, to banish the man from the Republic of Croatia by order of the British Intelligence Service. So what's the problem now? The problem is that we have shown definitely that we are not a sovereign state because here, even our Slovenian neighbours, who are twice as small as the Republic of Croatia did not agree to this ultimatum. They said, show the evidence, where's the evidence for that attack? There's no evidence, we won't banish. And Slovakia also a smaller state than the Republic of Croatia or at least equally large, refused to banish a Russian diplomat. Now, what's the biggest problem? Yesterday the Prime Minister comes here and when we discussed Agrokor, he says, I only act through evidence, only through institutions, only through official documents, and already today he's denying himself because he has agreed, therefore, to banish without any evidence but on the basis of the ad telling stories. And the question arises who then the Croatian administration? Do we, do Croatians, manage Brussels, Washington or London, or do they manage the Croatian Secret Service? I've asked the question here, but no one has listened to me, Bulj, please, to this, whether the state's attorneys, whether the Croatian judges are briefing British intelligence on the items being led to in the Republic of Croatia have never received. Although Mr Vujčić sent an open letter and publicly stated that the offices of the British Intelligence Service in Zagreb were located in the offices of the municipal court and that the letter was also given to the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Parliament President Gordan Jadrokovic, to this day we did not get an answer. So, if we haven't received an answer so far, I ask him to have it today, so the question is, do the British intelligence services have an impact on Croatian politics and how much? It's a very important question, it's a question of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And now watch out, we're like a sovereign state, and we're carrying out the orders of Brussels, London and Washington on a remote control, which wasn't just in this case, but is practically a policy of continuity of this government which, for example, agrees on a remote control that she's willing to buy a Limaria that she calls aircraft to be exposed to a technical museum at a cost of $3 billion with possible corrupt actions and conflict of interest just to buy an American-Israeli friendship and just to fulfill the US administration's mandate to spend 2% of GDP on weapons that we don't need right now because the RH isn't in war danger. The Croatian government is selling weapons to terrorists on the orders of Washington and Brussels. He's selling weapons to Saudi Arabia without knowing where that weapon ends. Then we are brought here to the Parliament, incredibly, and we are brought by the military junta of Saudi Arabia that we are clapping and then here people, robots, listeners with no awareness of anything clapping on people who are committing aggression on Yemen and who are participating in wars in the Middle East. Directly related to this question, I would ask the Prime Minister, what is Croatia's position towards the conflict in Syria? Are we going to participate in this war or are we already in this war? And I'm particularly interested in what is the attitude towards a freedom fighter for Bashar al-Assad? That's the same interesting question we should get an answer to. If there is a conflict between Russia and the United States in Syria will Croatia participate in this war and if in what way? Is it just financial and logistics or will our people go there to die, just like they were sent to the Russian border? And that's interesting. Here I call on HDZ representatives if you want to fight, pack up and go, no one defends you, but do not send Croatian sons who do not agree with your policy and who are asking Croatia to wage an exclusive defence war. But of course you don't have to worry, HDZ deputies will avoid going to war because they, as you know, have serious health problems, some have anaemia, other syncopes, etc. And then the Bunjac and his sons will go, and their sons will hide in the münchen battlefields and some kind of specialist examinations, etc. It's an evil to speak of, and it's an evil to be revealed in front of this High House. Croatia has brought itself among other things into a schizophrenic situation, be careful now that we banish Russian diplomats, to carry out harmful sanctions on Russia, primarily harmful to our interests, to keep soldiers on the Russian border, and on the other hand we invite Putin to Croatia, to open an exhibition yesterday because they are looking for me here in Klovic's courts with the presence of the president, the minister, the government's representative and the entire public life, we give Agrokor Sberbanci, which shows that we are in the politics of a completely unclear structure, or we could say the reverse roles. It's a policy of nihilism and a policy of undoing all the values our government is carrying out, which it also accuses others of conducting. It is a policy in which it is possible not only to be friends and enemies with Russia at the same time, but rather a policy in which we can at the same time declare ourselves great Christians, and on the other hand we go to the Church only in votes and blackmail priests with their filth. That's the policy. And don't hit me again because it comes from your party, it's your people... It's a policy that's called credible and when you take that program "Reliable" when you see what it says, then you see again on the other hand that there's nothing in practice. What does the “Reliable” programme say? It says that 180,000 jobs will be opened, it says, the VAT will be reduced, the agrarian bank will be introduced, it says, that the executive law will be amended, that the division from the only home will be banned. Is there any way that the Croatian public could have seen it by now? There's nothing, there's nothing. Isn't it amazing that we in Croatia today have a situation that the ruling party's president has more support for both the SDP and his party? So it's a denial of simple common sense, it's politics I can do anything in my literal sense. Thus, the Living Wall rejects not only this report but it rejects the entire government policy and if God is today after the vote, it goes to the castle of history where it has long been in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79524	Thank you very much. They've just joined us, so let's welcome the students of the 13th High School from Zagreb. Here you go, colleague Pernar. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79525	Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to say that Prime Minister Plenkovic expeditively expelled a Russian diplomat along with part of EU and US members. For what, though? Because of a double spy and the question in fact of what is behind that attack, the evidence is actually not clear and does not point to someone's responsibility. But what he would like to say is that human rights are being violated daily in occupied Palestine, and the UN is also testifying to that. And here we have recently had a situation that the Israeli army shot at the protesters unarmed, that it killed almost 40 people and I'm surprised why Prime Minister Plenkovic has the courage to do so. claims to himself that he has the courage to make a decision to banish a Russian diplomat, does not have the courage to banish an Israeli diplomat because of such a cruel policy against the Palestinians. It is not clear to me, Mr Plenkovic, why the lives of the Palestinians are worth nothing, and the life of a double Russian spy is worth so much. What hurts me here is actually hypocrisy. If you had a credible policy, Mr. Plenkovic would react to the annexation of Crimea, or if you looked at the annexation of Crimea and the annexation of the West Coast occupied since '67. In those years, you would be a credible politician, then you could say gentlemen of Parliament's representatives, to me, international law is important, I believe that taking over a foreign country can't be justified, etc. But what's going on? You do not condemn the annexion or occupation of the West Coast, you buy from Israel military planes that are exhausted, but 30 years old and you estimate that we will use them for another 30 years, foreign media in Austria say that they can drive for a maximum of 10 years. And not only that, there comes a new shower and a new slap for our citizens from that same Israel, that is. I'm sorry, not from Israel, but the country plans to buy more military helicopters from America. So why Mr. Plenkovic, who are we preparing for war with? Isn't there other priorities in this country and ultimately, will this purchase of these planes, will those billions that have been spent stop a young man looking at us from the gallery and planning to leave our country? I don't think it's going to help, as well as the citizens who are in the blockade, whose power has been unplugged, the water, which is in trouble with the directors, the credit problems, etc. There's going to be more raids soon, Mr. Plenkovic, and I'm going to have to live-at again, and I'm going to have to record what's going on again, why? Well, because of the censorship, Mr. Plenkovic at HRT. So there's no objective and impartial reporting on HRT, but it's turned into a PR agency of your government, public television, I find that regrettable. Right, someone told me, Ivan, says I'm looking at HRT, and if I wasn't on social media, I'd think it was just me in trouble, says the woman would think everything was actually great, no. And that's what HRT is trying to show persistently, that the situation in Croatia is actually the most normal, and that if someone's in trouble, amigo, it's your own fault, it's just your problem, etc. So, instead of having a democratisation after we join the EU, instead of having a smaller censorship in the media, we have more pluralism, different opinions, etc. All we can see, Mr. Plenkovic, is only and only one brain. However, what is particularly true, let's say picturesquely in the eye, is your political rating because despite such propaganda and your everyday appearance on TV channels, interviews, headlines in daily press, you are still the most hated person in Croatia and you should wonder why? You should wonder why the HDZ rating dropped by almost 10% in a year from 34% to 24%. It's all the consequences of your policy. Of course, not your own, but the entire HDZ team that systematically degrades the Croatian being and works against the interest of our country, the monetary policy that HDZ advocates and leads is directed against the Croatian state. The law you are implementing is and which you have established has enveloped the citizens in black, it is against Croatia and its citizens. Also, the foreign policy you run is a service policy, and the contract for the LNG terminal and the law actually about LNG that you are now pushing is also against Croatia's interest, which you must be aware of. Why? Because that gas is more expensive, citizens will not pay for more expensive gas, only two options are possible. Or that this LNG terminal there is going to be collecting dust, or that a lot of money is going to go for nothing or what's less likely is that we're all going to say now let's go buy more expensive gas. I don't think that's going to happen, and I don't understand how you don't see all these problems, you obviously don't care about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79526	Thank you very much. We move on to an individual debate and the first one will be a respected representative of Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79527	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Prime Minister Plenkovic, I asked you a few questions in the replica, of course that you have not answered these questions as a diplomat, but that you have started with insults and callings which make me happy because I expect nothing from you and your arrogance, but a different dream raised and living like you, you have rightly lived under a glass bell, under silk and so on, and you behave and, of course, underestimate, share and on the basis of your assumptions you throw people into the soybeans as you wish. I will repeat the questions I have repeated, no matter what you call different names to those who do not want to be with you, to those who do not want to be with you, so I will ask you one more question. Without hating you, but to discuss, to explain. I know you're the intellectual elite, I accept that. In the glass bell you were raised, but I was accidentally chosen by the people and known that it was difficult for you in my constituency and while awake here I would ask questions, you were angry, you were not angry, you were calling on my Sinjana, Vica Buljana, Mark Happy, Tihomila Raju, Mika Tripal and many others who gave great pain to the democratisation of the Republic of Croatia. You said that the EU has strong global activity, I just asked you a question for the period 2014 to 2020. Croatia will pay between 25 billion and 30 billion kuna, so so far we have paid 25 billion, around, only 3% of Croatia's EU cash register has returned, that's my question. We country, which is demographically weakened, everyday people leave, agriculture never gets worse. Before joining the EU and before accession negotiations, we had 64,000 family economies dealing with dairy production. Now we've got about five, even less. Slavonia is empty, Dalmatian Zagora empty, only 2011 to 2016 moved 26,000 people. Those are the questions I'm asking you. Will you use as other countries to use only the advantage of our neighbouring country mainly to resolve their disputes with Croatia, such as Savudrija, why do we not solve our missing and lost? Why do we accept that Serbia is a small HAG to Croatian defenders when Croatia was not joining the EU? These are the questions I ask you, as a man of pro-European orientation. My differences and your differences don't take so long to endanger you and you don't answer those questions. I'm not insulting you. I'm asking you as a prime minister, and of course when you insult that even the chairman won't warn you. That's the rule and that's how it has to be with you. So it was during Sanader while you were secretary to the current president of the Parliament. These are the times, i.e. the says Sanaderism, but now it's Plenkovic'sism. You all know, we can't ask. We must not ask the question, should Croatia be questioned after 5 years in the EU, the results of its membership, I ask you the question. I didn't want to personally endanger you or your integrity, but you insult her, insult her, but every force of time. My questions about demographics, you asked your questions, Diane, Junker, don't ask. Turn off the economic belt, it's a question legally, legitimately, that question should be asked. That's under the United Nations Convention in '82. Mr. Croatia is a signatory, former state, but nextly, the European Commission, the EU, requires its members to protect their territorial waters, i.e. Our Adriatic Sea, where we still have bigger stains than Split area, balance water, oil. That's what you're talking about, in the EU in the European Council, how to fight against our citizens being, not being in a worse position around the Ljubljana Bank, which is what Slovenians use well with European officials. Your good relationship with European leaders, as much as they mean to Croatian citizens, but you find yourself offended by these issues, you find yourself offended, you quote the series. I mean, if I said what you look like to me, and why would I say that, I mean why. Either you're jealous or you have other attitudes. And you are the person who declares the Istanbul Convention, non-violence, no humiliation, you with your arrogance, so people have conscience, freedom, have their intellectual level, not underestimate, humiliate the diameter. No, that's not good, you've introduced a new rule. Perhaps the advice of Brussels has made you a little bit of a nation, but that's not good. It's not a good message to ordinary citizens, who agree or disagree in thousands of things, and that's good in the demographic system. There can't be one man all of them. We don't have to get along, but you don't have to humiliate yourself, because you don't know anybody's way of life. Someone's got weight, someone's got a glass bell lighter. I am proud as a parliamentary representative, and I am honored to be able to ask in this House questions and precedents and other ministers, and I will ask them, I will ask them. What about the Strategic Port of Gazenica? Where in central Dalmatia, in Zadar, Croatia invested more funds than the Pelješki bridge. If we consider the road, the date, the dalmatinian so-called. which is connected to the port of Gazenica, a total of two billion and two hundred million is invested in that port, more than in the Pelješki Bridge. But for a small amount... A company, the state of which the ministry has broken its concession contract down at the port of Gruz in Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that protecting national interests? Is that Croatia's protection? Is it just about the euro and the introduction of the euro? Is it only good with the advocacy of Brussels officials, is it only good for your friendship, for all people, because you do not want to be an enemy. But I'm interested in how many effects we have from agriculture, demographics, demos of industry building, all these, blocked, said only 3.5 to 4 billion euros, we're going to pay in the period from 2014 to 2020, and so far we've only returned 3% of the funds to poor Croatia. About energy, well money for the subsidized, of course, was done by the previous government at the head with the minister, headed by Prime Minister Milanovic, but he was Vrdoljak, subsidising renewable energy sources, a billion and a half kuna to foreign investors, while the solars are not naturally mentioned. I expect you to accept the questions of the President of the Parliament, of course when you do not answer the question of trying to humiliate and insult, which is good, it pleases me, means that I am either to you or to you in a shoe like in the previous government because I was in living shoes because he was numb to accept diversity, because you are obviously just imposing non-violence on your progress, your own interests, and you are not really showing this uninhabited in reality, insulting, underestimation. Because if intellectual elites were doing their job, you should know, I wouldn't be in Parliament. Imagine the Croatian economy, Agrokor, 10 billion kunas without bonds, without the backing of the CNB allowed it to use Agrokor. And that's why it's now in foreign hands. Our sources, our agricultural land. And I liked to file a criminal report with all of you experts. I'm proud of my life, and I believe you're proud of yours. And by humiliating and not answering the question of parliamentary representatives, you speak more of yourself than of me. But, as the diameter of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, accept differences, do not share Croatia, do not let the spirits out of the bottle, because when they escape, I am afraid you will not be able to bring them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79528	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you called me unbiased or biased. So the first offensive sentence was spoken by you at the expense of the Prime Minister and I didn't warn you. Then he called you Panama, so he apologized, so I didn't react at the time because I didn't react when you said something that I didn't think was appropriate. So what do you want now? You kept the whole pledoies invoking that you were offended and humiliated, but whoever the sword was barking from the sword and the death, so please don't call me who I was absolutely correct, I could warn you, I didn't. I could have warned the Prime Minister, I didn't, because that's the rules of the game. So if you want to talk hard, then be ready and get a kick, and don't come in here and censure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79529	The violation of the Rules of Procedure to you 236, because you have now spoken as a parliamentary representative, and I believe that Mr. Plenkovic is not being a tribune to be a lawyer, because you have, means of course you act like one. I don't want you at all, I never called you what they call you, and I know you're breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79530	.../Intruder President: no, no./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79531	And I'm proud of what you're calling me as an intellectual elite in that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79532	.../Intruder President: and who calls you?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79533	You are a man who simply, you are a messenger, a messenger to all whom you have served.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79534	.../The President's intrusion: you're out of time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79535	From Kosorica, Karamark, Sanader, now Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79536	.../Intruder President: Come on, my dear friend./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79537	This one is your protector and attorney now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79538	.../Intruder President: Dear friend Bulj, dear friend Bulj, I ask you to be a knight so when you strike someone then take a blow when you get them back, and don't act here and center it on you with your masculinity that you're talking about./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79539	How don't you know I don't feel ladyy? How do you insult that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79540	Who insults you? So who insults you? ... Here you go. [[The intruders can't be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79541	Infringement of Rules 2 3
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79542	.../Intruder President: 8./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79543	Eight, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79544	.../Intruder President: 238./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79545	Look, about my manhood that you talk, you can talk about your manhood, is as I feel it's my right to express my position. But you're usually, you feel nervous, I'm not nervous that he called me, but that doesn't answer the questions I ask. That's the problem with me, and you obviously don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79546	.../Intruder President: well, well./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79547	That's not a problem for you, of course the people chose me as I am and of course I'm your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79548	.../Intruder President: no one against you has anything, come on fellow Bull./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79549	That I will not be a knight and a manhood to build as you have built from Kosorica, Sanader,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79550	.../Intruder President: colleague Bulj, colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79551	Karamarka, now Plenkovica. These are out of danger, Mr. Plenkovic's lawyers. Soon they were, look at the pictures of the sequence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79552	Comrade Bull, you're very nice, but you're insulting again because that's the way you work. Insult the other, and then they'd like the other one to keep quiet. But they won't shut up anymore, you'll get back every time, every time. So let's move on. Now it's my dear colleague Tomislav Sokol's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79553	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, fellow MPs. Well, here's something I'm going to try to talk about on the subject of this report, although I can see that it's not particularly interesting for some colleagues, but, well, here we are. Most of the time, I think that this is the submission of regular reports, that it draws attention to the problems of the EU that are not quite worked out and I regret that there is no longer any interest in this and that these discussions are unfortunately used instead of discussing this topic for some personal accounts, stories about internal-political issues in Croatia, etc. And that is why we have the consequences that the EU is not sufficiently a fruit of interest in the Republic of Croatia, that there is little turnout in the elections for the European Parliament, etc. And I think it's the atmosphere we need to fight and try to improve, and I think my colleague Bulj agrees with me. However, I would point out a few aspects of the report itself, the first topic of equality, so if the EU rests on something, which is a unique legal system where all are equal before the law, that is, should be equal before the law, and that is why the EU is different from all the forms of integration that existed in Europe in the past, precisely because there are no dominant forces or at least they should not exist, but they should all be equal in one single legal system where they sanction both large and small. And so far, it's mostly worked. So far, the practice of European courts and other EU bodies has contributed greatly to the fact that both large and small Member States, counterpart Maras, can you do a little bit? ... Anyway, so that's something that's certainly positive. [[The intruders can't be heard.]] What is not good, which is that some countries in the EU feel equal to others, unfortunately that practice we have had, began in the '90s when some Member States like the United Kingdom managed to achieve themselves, to agree on some arrangements that applied exclusively to them, and not to others. And that's the situation we've got today. When we talk about Brexit, we see an example of these... solutions, i.e. the proposal, or the desire to apply only certain parts of European regulations to a country and some not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, VB, if we remember and when there was a referendum on Brexit, the free movement of workers was a problem, while the free movement of capital was something that was very appropriate and that no one questioned. I don't think that's good, I think that kind of system where some rules apply, and to some others it's certainly not good, especially for small Member States. In this regard, I also support this Croatian initiative, that Croatia should remain part of this EU centre, that it should not be put on the margin and that all rules should be applied equally to all and I think that this uniqueness and legal system is what is essential for the EU and what is important for its long-term survival. It is also important for the long-term survival of the EU and co-operation, meaning the revote principle, the principle where some countries, thanks to their voting machinery, are able to push their interests to the detriment of some others, is something that is not standard practice in the EU. We know that in the EU, the majority of decisions in the Council of Ministers and in the European Council are made unanimously and that the principle of agreeing on co-ordination and compromise is something that should certainly be welcomed and that needs to be continued. And in that sense, and in all these sensitive topics such as migration, etc. The key is certainly to seek consensus, so that some countries would not feel as winners of that system as losers. The second thing I would point out, the Prime Minister mentioned the issue of Croatian priorities in terms of the budget specifically for agriculture and European structural funds, I think that's good. Of course, as a less developed Member State, Croatia has an interest in being the emphasis on the financial perspective, but I would not ignore EU programmes, such as Horizon 20-20 means programmes in science and not only in science where all countries can participate in..., of course, then some countries like Germany, France and Great Britain get more, but I don't think that in our way of thinking we need to make peace in advance with that we will always be weak. I think that we should also encourage that part of our EU membership, that we should work to raise awareness of our scientific community and the wider society on the benefits of these programmes and strengthen the idea itself that we can compete with big ones. Of course, I may be subjective here because I was the assistant minister of science, but I think it's certainly one aspect that should not be ignored. And I think that Croatia should also advocate that part of EU funding and seven-year financial perspectives is very important and that we are thus stimulating those of the most qualitative parts of Croatian society that are able to compete with even the strongest and even with the Germans, the French and others. Finally, as far as the foreign policy aspect is concerned, BiH has been mentioned. I think BiH is an absolute strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia and I am glad that this government plays a much more proactive role there than some previous governments. It means that BiH is the strategic interest of Croatia and because of the Croats who are a constituent people there, because of the geopolitical position, economic ties and everything else. What I think is particularly important is that the EU and here I think Croatia can contribute to a single position towards BiH and engage as an active player in resolving the situation in BiH. The fact is that some foreign forces, some countries that are not in the EU, have seen BiH as their own area of interest, especially some countries in which BiH once was part, and that is something that is certainly a long-term challenge, both for the interests of the Republic of Croatia and for the interests of the Croatian people in BiH. Especially when we have a situation where some BiH politicians like to call on these third countries and, based on that, actually build up their own political position. I think that Croatia should continue with a proactive approach, I think that it should lobby within the EU to actively engage in the situation in BiH, primarily for the survival of Croats in BiH, and for the survival of BiH as a state, there is definitely no survival of BiH as a state without the protection of the interests of Croats in the long term. In this sense, he would certainly point out the issue of the electoral law as the most important issue for the equality and survival of Croats in BiH, and I believe and hope that this policy will continue to represent the interests of Croats in BiH. I think that on the subject of Croats in BiH and the whole theme should be spoken more in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79554	Let's move on, dear colleague Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79555	Thank you, Mr. President. On this report submitted by the prime minister on the events and developments of the most important messages within the EU, I would like to look back on several topics. First of all, I would like to remind the prime minister and the Croatian public that the European Commission sent its report on the implementation of economic reforms and the economic situation in Croatia to 73 pages on 6 March this year. In the report written professionally and diplomatically, serious objections can be read and more clear criticism on the government's account, that it has done nothing significant in implementing important economic reforms. Obviously, these are extremely important warnings because they come from exactly the highest place in the EU. But what happened when that report came to Croatia? The government typically performed in PR style, they told the public, so that's what's expected. After that, no consultation, no session, no debate was held to report or to discuss this important report by the European Commission and to adopt or speed up the Action Plan for Structural Reforms. Furthermore, I have sent a letter to the President of the Parliament to Mr Jandrokovic to place this question on the European Commission's agenda if the Government will not discuss these serious warnings, the criticisms it received from the European Commission, that we are here to discuss the parliamentary representatives and, in my view, it is writtenly responsible, but in a way that I can reasonably conclude that this is not so important for the Croatian Parliament. When it comes to foreign policy, we need to make it clear and I want to tell the public that it is very clear and visible that we have two foreign policies. One is being led from Pantovic, and the other is being led here on Mark's square from the government, so we see this on a number of examples of the Three Seas initiative, relations with Russia, etc., etc. all this is damaging the position of Croatia's reputation in the EU and in the world. The next point I want to say is the issue of introducing the euro into Croatia. You see, it really seems amazing that in a situation like this where Croatia, in a realistic sense, when we compare the real state of economy, productivity, technological equipment, etc., we are very much behind the EU average. In economics, it is known in economic theory that a country that, regardless of this state of the real economy, wants to quickly cross and take over another currency, will freeze its economy and challenge the competitiveness of its products on the international market, i.e. specifically within the EU. If we have anything and a good example of it, unfortunately it is bad for Greece, but it is an example of Greece. That country is a grave patient, it cannot be saved and when this arrangement expires in a year, they will simply have to return to that problem. He will have to write off half of all debts to Greece first, then everything, and then he will even have to give them something in advance if he wants to remain a member of the EU and NATO pact. So my message is as a university professor who deals with monetary issues, international finances, don't come into the euro, don't jump into a project that threatens the position of the future of the Republic of Croatia, so this can cost the Croatian economy. What makes me a scientist now and a politician, which makes me happy is that there is still in the EU, where they are deciding, but there are reasonable people who will certainly refuse Croatia if we apply tomorrow, if we say please, in a month's time, they would say for sure, because they refused Bulgaria a month or two ago, they would say, you have big problems, you're sick, we have enough patients, we don't want to endanger the euro project that already works, so, very difficult. What do you, Mr. Prime Minister, expect from the euro? Mr. President of the Parliament, please, if I may finish within this time limit, then, to establish peace. You, Mr. Prime Minister, I know you're not an economist. I said yesterday, you're a lawyer, but you expect, so don't fall for the old delusion that someone expects the currency to create a state. The euro cannot create a country called the United States. That's what Aristotle said. So if someone believes that really common money is the best way to definitely and practically achieve a state, then it can really have a very bad effect on that project itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79556	My colleagues and colleagues, please let my colleague Lovrinović finish. Please be as quiet as you can to your seats and not be too loud, so that your colleague can finish the presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79557	Here, I hope, Mr. President, that in 15-20 seconds you'll extend me because this doesn't make sense. Let's ask a question now after 2013, four and a half years went by as the EU's Republic of Croatia. What are the results of our EU membership? We have become the second most underdeveloped and poorest member of the EU. What's the next score? We have mass eviction, particularly qualified workers and experts and what is particularly interesting and what should be pointed out is that this scenario has not been expected by any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia since the entry into the EU and which is a logical consequence of the rise in reluctance, so people are increasingly less interested and increasingly less believe in the EU project. And why and what's the consequence?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79558	Please, colleagues and colleagues, let's be fair to Agent Lovrinovic and let him speak in silence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79559	Mr. President of the Parliament, you are unable to maintain peace in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79560	.../Intruder President: Ma colleague Lovrinović, do not give me lessons, please, I am trying and looking for ways for you to speak in peace, you are still calling me. Please finish your speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79561	But I am, so I'm sending you a message, this is a third attempt, so you're in no condition to maintain order and peace, so I'm going to stop for people to apologize, but let my time run. So I can't help it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79562	No, you're talking, or you'll be out of time. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79563	Well, I've already lost a minute, and you're going to blow me off what it is. Here, honourable citizens, you are the only one who can talk to you, you who are watching this, this circus in the House, this is the best indicator that most of the parliamentary deputies sitting here, especially from the ruling coalition, that they are not at all interested in these topics you see, which I am trying to talk about. They're waiting for a vote and how they're going to do as they're written on paper, you know. They've got precise instructions how they'll, why they'll need to be for, which will be against. It's finally time, I won't speak any further because this topic, you see, is not interested in the EU of anyone here, this is one disrespect for parliamentary MPs, the Parliament as the Supreme Institution, and it has collapsed to this level precisely thanks to a number of MPs here. Therefore, I urge you from this pay phone to open your eyes well in the next election and to see who you will support to come to this House. You want to support people who will be air-conditioned here, who will only listen to party bosses who will vote for or support people who will talk about real life problems in the Republic and who have a firm desire and intention to solve it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79564	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Now we're going to end this debate and we're going to go to the vote. We're continuing the debate. It is up to the honourable representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go, pal Bunjac, you're out, thank you. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Bojan Glavasevic, here we go, giving up. Dear fellow Milenic gives up. Dear Miranda Mrsic, colleague Mrsic? He's a colleague of Mrsic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79566	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't think I'd be in line so soon. Mr. Plenkovic,...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79567	Wait a minute, come on, leave the assembly room for those of you who don't want to stay in the assembly. Please, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79568	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, it is actually an unimaginable fact to me how confident you deceive the Croatian public by creating perception that Croatia is following and supporting the EU trends that are in favour of our citizens and that Croatia is seriously considering all those challenges ahead of us in the near future. That this is how they confirm the actions of your Government, which Croatia places at the bottom of the EU, for many reasons and for many statistics, from the preeminent forms of work to health and social status of our citizens. And while you, Mr. Prime Minister, are in Brussels indignantly in favour of the implementation of the European pillar of social rights, I see the prime minister has better things to do, so he doesn't listen to what parliamentarians are saying. At the same time, your government is not inclined to improve the level of rights in Croatia, which is even below the directive, which proposes to adopt at least a minimum of these rights in Croatia. Isn't it hypocritical of you, Mr Plenkovic, to tell us today that your government is a strong advocate of the European pillar of social rights until you do nothing in Croatia at the same time. And not only are you not working but you are also against improving these rights in Croatia. You also deceive the Croatian public, but you also deceive the EU on the state of affairs in Croatia and on the Croatian definition of going the way it promotes the EU. I see you somehow support this idea of the pitzen candidate you discussed on the European Council on February 28th. It is clear to everyone, and you can't tell yourself that it doesn't tickle your imagination and I can't take the impression that you're using your position as prime minister right now to ensure the best start in the EU when the time comes for the European Commission's leaders to choose. Mr. Prime Minister, you were elected by the citizens to work for the benefit of the citizens, not to work for your own good, and the citizens did not choose you to have a springboard for Brussels from the prime minister's post, but rather to make Croatia a more modern and advanced state. However, Europe is not blind to see what is happening in Croatia, so it is clear in the European Commission's report that reforms have not progressed in Croatia. It is a worrying fact that we have read in the paper that you or you will distribute 600,000 kunas to engage agencies that will examine what citizens think about pension reform, health reform, public administration pay reforms. However, it is this move, Mr. Prime Minister, that makes it precisely for you to confirm that you do not have a vision, but that you do not have the courage to spend not only what is necessary in Croatia in order to put yourself on the side of countries with an increase in GDP and with countries that have an orderly society, but you do not already have the courage because you are more concerned with the perception of the public, not the improvement of the country. Because you obviously want to see what citizens think of you through this research, and the real prime minister would carry out reforms that he knows are important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And while Europe is seeking to strengthen social rights in Europe to rebuild the trust of EU citizens where the main purpose is to ensure peace and social prosperity of EU citizens, which is why you in Croatia are doing exactly the opposite, something that is not in the spirit of the EU. If you are as much advocacy for social rights as you are in Brussels, then I ask you how the Croatian Government will deal with the Council's recommendation on the access of workers and self-employed in the social protection system. I ask you what your personal position is about the policy of reconciliation of business and private life to limit non-standard forms of work currently in place by the EU. If it is to be tried by the announcements in relation to labour legislation, health reform and pension reform, it seems to me that you will do exactly the opposite of what the EU stands for. You do not need that 600,000 kuna research because it is clear that these reforms need to be implemented. Croatia is a record for Eurostat by the number of workers who are in overtime and work for a certain time. About 25% of workers in Croatia today work for a certain time compared to 12% in the EU. They have no job security, they leave Croatia, they have no future and you dare not give a positive opinion of the two laws that go in order to reduce this unfair practice in Croatia. These two laws are the ones that will partially stop young people from leaving Croatia, so some of them will get contracts indefinitely, and these laws have the support of both public defenders and trade unions and NGOs, but because of some of their own interests, the government has not dared to give a positive opinion on these two laws. You are also talking about digital Europe, you strongly support the EU's bid on this issue, and I ask you schools, I ask you what measures you have taken in Croatia to prepare Croatia for the consequences that will be when we arrive at an advanced digitalisation phase on the labour market. And in order for our workers to adapt to the time that lies ahead of us, not a word. Croatia still doesn't have a development strategy, and how we adapt to anything if we don't know where we're going. You support the energy union, and I ask you what the government has done so far to ensure energy independence in Croatia. Mr Plenkovic's commitment to the EU does not mean agreeing with everything Brussels promises, does not mean declarative promises and support, but support for works that make your government one of the worst. It has recently been announced that 65% of Croatians have gone to Germany for economic reasons, 27 for political reasons, and even 67% of them regret and do not want to return to Croatia. All 15% is thinking about returning to Croatia, and what is alarming for you, but for both the Parliament and all of us, 37% of them are highly educated. You are obviously running away from making decisions is gone because you do not show what you would do if those people who left Croatia started thinking about coming back to Croatia. So far, the government has not launched any major reforms, and what it has launched has caused damage to the citizens. Croatia can and Croatia deserves better than what you and your government have now afforded it. Croatia is a country that must not be at the bottom of the EU based on numerous statistics, and for this situation you and your government are the most responsible. Therefore, if you care about the improvement of Croatian citizens, I suggest you start in the EU, show your example of taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, start a debate on measures that will help the Croatian economic situation, especially social convergence. Prove your actions, not your words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79569	Let's go to the replicas. The first is the honorary fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79570	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm not used to the new Rules of Procedure yet, but I'll try two of your things just to comment. First of all, as far as the pitzen candidate is concerned, you here, Mrsic, are guessing whose personal ambitions are or aren't, but I think we should deal with the metrics. And the measure is that the EU's frequent objection is an objection to the democratic deficit. So it's some unselected bureaucrats who rule, etc., etc., that don't match anyone else. Exactly the idea of a pitzen candidate, meaning that you know in advance which political group is running for President of the European Commission, who will then have the support of the majority in the European Parliament if this option gets a majority, is just positive that this story is broken and that it is created and that there is a democratic legitimacy of whoever is elected. Plus, what's clear from the report, so it's not binding because you have that provision of a contract that says, taking into account the European Parliament, but it's the political weight of that story and I think that due to further democratisation, the EU needs to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79571	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79572	Dear fellow Sokol. So when you defend yourself so much, what do you defend yourself so much if it's not true and if it's not in your head? I don't see why you're taking it so far away from yourself because HDZ is a member of the situation that's gonna be what it's gonna be, who knows what it's like, but it's expected that the people will probably have the largest number of seats in the European Parliament, and why are you defending yourself from it? It would be an honor for the Republic of Croatia. We need to be open. Therefore, having someone in such a high position from a small Croatia is good for Croatia, and why are you defending it? You don't want it to be that way. So I don't understand your discussion. If you'd replicated me on the issue of social convergence on your own... Yeah, you should have chosen what you're going to ask first? About these other things, then it would be clear to me, but I absolutely don't understand why you discussed it this way because if it doesn't exist, The desire has no reason to discuss it. [[President: Thank you. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79573	Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79574	Thank you very much. Dear Mrsić, you mentioned the problem of work and contract for a certain time in your discussion. The fact is that unfortunately, this government has results in a reduction of unemployment, i.e. the number of unemployed persons exclusively in terms of the departure of young people and people in working age outside the Republic of Croatia. We have seen, unfortunately, a survey these days in which these people have no intention of returning because they see that in the Republic of Croatia things are not taking place in a positive direction and that on the other hand they are very difficult to achieve perspectives as they do in other EU countries as a rule. So don't have any illusions that this will be the government's agenda because we don't see anything about it. I think it's in the interest of this government to keep those people tied up interestingly. for a party currently in power. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79575	Here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79576	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras. I have proposed a law which unfortunately you did not support, which can correct a part of this problem because we now have conditions for this and this problem has been pointed out by the European Commission to Croatia, and the Government is obviously deliberately forgetting it. We have support in these laws for both trade unions and NGOs and the occupancy attorneys and lawyers for gender equality, and Minister Pavic in the government because I believe that the prime minister can't do everything, so he has his own ministers who should ensure that he makes the right moves, the government said it wasn't even a problem. That working for a certain time in the Republic of Croatia is not a problem and that it should not be solved. And that's what I answered in my discussion, that the government does not recognize or solve the problems of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79577	Thank you. Now let's go to the esteemed fellow Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79578	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend Mrs., you pointed out that Europe is not blind. When we talk about seeing everything, we actually see that there is absolutely nothing going on in the Republic of Croatia on reform processes. I would just point out one reform that Europe estimated to be very positive some year and a half ago, which is an educational reform. Unfortunately, this educational reform left only a form and a declarative commitment to it, and the only thing that is happening on that trail is the waste of personneling, changing ministers, state secretaries, setting up and cancelling competitions, arguing with the NHS and HDZ about how the reform will be implemented, and while all this is happening together, while one of them is at war, our students are still waiting, and yesterday's meeting was one of the examples of why we need education reform as soon as possible, that is better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79579	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79580	Dear fellow Glasovac, Churchill still said, if you don't know what to do, start a task force and the prime minister does it one way or another. Education reform is the future of Croatia, without educational reform we will not be competitive in the EU and we will be the country in which Europeans will come to spend their age, we will be a country of services and we will not be a country of production. And education is the key to that. All the countries that started with this are today countries that have GDP growth, which the economy benefits most from. One of the countries is Finland, which has shown how it can be done with education and instead of having role models in those countries, we have examples in the past and we want the education system back in the past, into divisions, in who are Ustashas, who are partisans instead of talking about a digital revolution waiting for us in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79581	Now it's all yours, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79582	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Mrsic, therefore you mentioned three vulnerable groups of this society, primarily unemployed people, especially young people who leave this country and for this reason another group of those who work but somewhere one family member, somewhere even two, but because of small salaries and even a block of accounts, are not able to live normally and the third group in my opinion are the most vulnerable pensioners. At this point we have a problem with pension levels, in the future we can expect that the problem will only increase. that pensions will be less or less sufficient for people's normal lives. But what's crucial, if you don't start with the reforms you're warning, we won't just talk about the pension level anymore, but in general about the stability of the pension system. It can also happen that such a pension system in the future is falling apart because there won't be enough of those who pay and there will be more and more of those who will need to retire.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79583	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79584	Thank you very much. Well, the government has decided to spend 600,000 kuna on researching what citizens think about pension, health system reforms, social care, for what they know, it's common sense that Croatia needs to change and that the government has to do things that maybe everybody in society won't like but it's a government job and not everybody likes it, and here's the government, let's just say at this point, doesn't think about the poverty of people who do. And that is the problem that today in Croatia does not mean that you will avoid poverty. There are people who work, but with what they earn, they can't meet all their needs and their families. And that's what the problem is. The problem of the pension system, small pensions, can and should be solved now and not put it under the rug and set up a variety of different groups that will or will not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79585	Thank you. Now let's go to the esteemed colleague Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79586	Dear colleague, you say we have a need to defend ourselves. No, actually, we're just results in a year and a half we can show what you're not in four years. And so this is, among other things, macroeconomic indicators, we've come out of the excessive deficit procedure, we've got an increase in credit ratings, an increase in employment and everything that you haven't done. And the educational reform has been on the spot for four years, and it's going to start, so don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79587	Answer, colleague Mrsic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79588	Dear colleague Peric, and you could have mentioned in 2002, 2003, when the SDP government was so that we didn't do something you expect to do. It's been two years since HDZ had two governments in which he could do some things. I wasn't even talking about how this government didn't do some things, but it didn't do enough, and it doesn't show, it didn't do anything in the pension system, it didn't do anything in social care, it didn't do anything in the labour market. I'm talking about worker poverty, I'm talking about citizen poverty, we're at the bottom of the EU. Well, I didn't make it up. The EU has taken these achievements into account, but that is not enough. Croatia is at the bottom of EUROSTAT by all parameters and that is what concerns. And that's what I expected to hear today from the prime minister how to get off the bottom of EUROSTAT and that's the goal of every prime minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79589	Time, thank you. Dear colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79590	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. When we talk about subsistence and subsistence towards Brussels, Mr Plenkovic did something amazing, let's just remember the debate on how to patch up a hole because of the departure of the UK from the EU, it was somewhere in the morning, if I recall. Already somewhere in the daily daily daily, the regime's HTV report releases Plenkovic's statement where he promises that, we will give more money, we will give more money without asking this Parliament who said something in EU accession, as he said. Without asking the public, without having arrived at all consult with your Government in Croatia, with any profession, no analysis, no facts or political legitimacy, you promised as a purely political act, yes, we will give more money. No rights whatsoever. And when we see what is done and how it is done, we are not surprised why there are no results and why no reforms are carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79591	Answer, here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79592	Dear counterpart Sincic, yes, it is a servant mentality that we as a country must move away from it, Brussels is not everything, we are part of the EU but we do not have to blindly follow everything that comes from Brussels. We must take what is good for us, not what is good for the EU, what is good for Croatia, and that is one of the examples where the government has sinned. We are not talking about pension reform where Brussels proposes something that we do not have to accept in Croatia and we do not have to accept the dictatorship of Brussels. That was before 2013, 2013, Brussels wanted us to retire more strongly, to extend the retirement period, to be in 2025, but the government said no, no. And that is what I warn that this servant mentality will not bring us to have a better Croatia and make our GDP better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79593	Thank you. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79594	Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic, you said that moving into this government's time is significant, but you forget that it was both in your government's time and by the same model. I remember the campaign, then there was the SDP's password to open 500 new jobs a week and the truth was that 500 people were leaving Croatia a week. You didn't see that problem at the time, you were eye-snapping like Plenkovic, and that's why you ended up losing the election, that was the consequence of not facing reality. I invite you Mr Mrsic next time if you are in power not now, then continue again where Plenkovic stopped but change your policy, do something, don't let young people move but I'm afraid the citizens won't give you another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79595	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79596	My colleague Pernar, your rhetoric is always the same, so HDZ and SDP were the same, and I am no longer a member of that party, therefore, but also what I can say is that I was a member of that government and that this government was doing everything it could to stop the emigration from Croatia. I wasn't talking here about what people were when they went to Germany but I was talking about what we have a report that 67% of the people who went to Germany do not want to go back to Croatia at any time. And why won't they go back to Croatia? Because they feel that the political climate is such that it does not allow them to move forward in business, to have a safe job, to have good wages. And when that changes in Croatia, young people will return and that is the government's job, every government that comes here is a job to change the political environment, to change the state of the country so that people can come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79597	Thank you. We're going to the next debate. Dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79598	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the meetings of the European Council held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018. And we got one of those, I'd say a frame picture of what was going on there. Unfortunately, as many times as we have not received anything in being Croatian representatives and Croatian citizens expect from the government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. from our prime minister, which is that the topics that Croatia is struggling with, and this is not the crucial topic of getting the UK out of the EU, or whether Croatia will choose 11 or 12 MPs in the next European elections, the subject that has been bothering Croatia and Croatian citizens is that our prime minister at European Council meetings is determined to oppose the pension reform imposed on us by people from the European Commission, which means that since 2038, pardoned 33 years of retirement will necessarily be left at 67 years of age, that people will be further retired for early retirement, means even more than this case now and that it is particularly important to be covered by about 3,000 of our fellow citizens. If this is not the topic on which the prime minister, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, on the European Council, should say that Croatia will not agree to such models and such reforms, then I do not know what it is. We're not there, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to what big talk they're saying, but we're there to fight for our citizens. Which is why 3 hundreds of thousands of our citizens who have planned their working life would want to play with their grandchildren since 2033 if they had or dedicated themselves to retirement, which is why they should now be able to listen to the will of the EU, which is obvious by the Croatian government of HDZ, to work for another two years longer and in this way I would say to reduce the quality of their lives or to reduce the period that they thought they could devote to themselves without talking about it, and not to mention that the words about higher pensions, higher pensions are not at all on the agenda at this time. On the other hand, much more important things for Croatia are when it comes to the economy on European councils, which is why GDP is slowing down in Croatia, which is why we fell back to the EU's beginnings. And when we compare ourselves with other countries and our HDZ colleagues often want to compare with Hungary and to wish for leaders like Orban. Not a small number of them in HDZ today have shown themselves nominally who they are, whose Prime Minister Plenkovic does not lead a party according to democratic standards that would prefer Orban rather than Plenkovic. With that already in place, I would like to compare with Hungary in terms of GDP growth and economic performance. This is what Croatia should look at from its neighbours where they are better. And let's add up to the story of the so-called so-called. The purchase of INA, which after a year and 4 months from the press conference, or 5 months from the press conference at which Prime Minister Plenkovic promised to buy INA, the government decided to take a consultant who would probably work for the next year, and then the term of office of the government of Mr Plenkovic will expire if that year comes at all because we see that today most 76 are in the Croatian Parliament, this is the least possible majority that is possible from 151. So de facto Prime Minister Plenkovic at this time depends on whether any of the MPs will catch cold or will have to leave the assembly for certain matters and will not be able to vote on some decisions that are important like budgets or something else. So at this point, we have a terribly unstable government, and that's the main problem of the Republic of Croatia, and that's what we need to talk about. So we have no security, stability that Croatia will lead in the next two years. Of course, it does not occur to Prime Minister Plenkovic that he might be able to resolve the elections where citizens would say who they wanted and how they wanted Croatia to move on. But this government, which is currently being drawn up, I have said of 76 advocates of support in the Croatian Parliament, 76 of whom are not elected at all to support Mr Plenkovic. We all know who it's about, the HNS, the Sauchi, etc. Not to count now, Mr. Vardi, there are as many of them as you want. It is amazing how easy the most important Croatian problems are being solved or discussed at all, and that we have a government that has no legitimacy at all to represent Croatian citizens. So that's what we need to talk about here and what we need to talk about. And normally, in this situation, Mr Plenkovic cannot even be imposed as an authority on the European Councils and impose problems on the Republic of Croatia, and I said what these problems are and which should solve the slowdown of GDP, pension reform. There is no protection for our citizens, there is no protection for our citizens, there is no transparency about the crucial problems in the Republic of Croatia, here is Mrs. Dalic, who also means today, did not go very optimally and well for the citizens to see that there is no consensus around her and that the majority of them are getting smaller and smaller in the Croatian Parliament every day and that one vote is practically divided from not being a minister. But yesterday she told us that she got a T-shirt from the people in Pica, but she didn't tell us that these same people in Pica, Belje, warned her of impossible working conditions in Pica Belje, the behavior of those who operate there, that people work overtime, beyond the Labour Act, etc. Ms. Dalic did not mention anything, because of course Mrs. Dalic only cares about her problem, about her continuing to be a minister, and that people, who read millions in Agrokor and around Agrokor, continue to do so. And that's the biggest problem that we have in the Republic of Croatia, that we have at the moment, a government without legitimacy, because citizens didn't choose it this way that it works with most of the 76 with instability within the HDZ that is obvious, with protests everywhere. I am not talking about these yesterday in Split, which we hope to have absorbed, today, with a vote on the Istanbul Convention, but with the dissatisfaction of people leaving Croatia, due to the uncertainty of business, due to material conditions. Because a man goes from Rijeka to Zagreb with a cross to warn about medicines our children don't have, and we spend 3 billion on planes, on all these things, our Government and most in the Croatian Parliament, the minimum majority in the Croatian Parliament, of 76 MPs, shakes hands and says that they don't really care, because they think they can do what they want. As long as there are representatives like the people of the HNS and those who do so, for whom they will vote, only if they are in power, but unfortunately I say 10 MPs in the Croatian Parliament are only functioning on that basis, there is no special struggle for citizens, the interests of citizens, anything at all, they only care that this government survives as long as possible, because then they will also be representatives in the Croatian Parliament as long as possible. When you see all this together, it is no wonder that Mr Plenkovic, at meetings of the European Council, cannot perform and solve our problems with authority. And on the other hand, I don't think at all as a colleague of Zekanovic, that our diameter, because of all these situations that I've been telling you about before, can run to be a handsome candidate. So he might be, and I think he'll probably be a Commissioner in the end, it's something that's likely, perhaps the Vice President of the European Commission, that might as a nickname get in that division, but a Spanish candidate can hardly be, because of what I just said in his debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79599	We've got three replicas. She's the first respected colleague of Lukacic's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79600	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Maras, you have given a series of incorrect information in your debate. Whether this government is stable or not is not your problem. That's what we're going to worry about, we've shown today that we have a majority and don't worry about it. I'm just going to tell you how much this government is working for all the groups in this society. You know very well, we're also discussing it on committees, and I'm just going to tell you what you did, just two things, you took people with disabilities money, you wanted to destroy protection workshops, and that's what your former colleague Mrsic knows very well, fortunately we didn't give it to him, when he was a minister. Take care of yourself, let us go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79601	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79602	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ljubice, as a responsible Croatian politician, I have to take care of the stability of Croatia, and your body language and the way you discussed it speaks enough about you not believing what you just said, that it is all stable and that it works. So, yes, it means that neither Mrs Ljubica Lukanovic believes that things work the way she said it, because from her words it can be very clear and that the one she said it to can be recognized. So on that side, you obviously don't believe what you just said, that the majority is stable, that is, that all things work in HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79603	Comrade Maras, it would be at least correct to, correctly pronounce your colleague's name, so she's a colleague of Lukačić's. Now it's my dear colleague Ivan Lovirović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79604	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you were talking about the fact that happened here today, to which we are witnessing, which is that for the first time this is actually the hardest week, the political week for Prime Minister Plenkovic. For the first time, 71 MPs voted for the impeachment of a member of the government, for the first time, Minister Maric was saved like this in his hair, now Vice-President Dalic. All this concerns the EU, together, about how the reform programme will take place, structurally, etc. So that's one for the hair majority. And we know how it was created, you spoke carefully of it. I am interested in your opinion, so why is it that the prime minister, because of his credibility, why is Mrs. Dalic's burden ready to carry and is fighting so hard for her instead of fortifying his position in the EU exactly that he is a shifter and that she is firing her because she has done nothing about the economy?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79605	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79606	So I think Mr. Lovrinovic has no choice but to defend Mrs. Dalic because he stood firm behind her and can't admit now that Mrs. Dalic clearly took advantage of the crisis in Agrokor to help her friends because then he would admit his mistake and it would turn out to be co-responsible for everything that happened, what everyone in Croatia sees to be. So there is no hiding, his authority of the Prime Minister has made it possible for Mrs. Dalic to provide her friends with tens of millions of kunas in text management and other consultants. There's no more speech here, everybody knows it, everybody sees it, and everybody's valid today. So if you see three-quarters of Croatian citizens wanting to call off Minister Dalic then we have nothing more to talk about here. But you see, and I told you about an atmosphere in HDZ that they too see that the majority is thin, none, and that they will be tortured for another year and a half until the next parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79607	Thank you, colleague Maras. Now it's my Uncle's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79608	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maras, you have repeatedly pointed out, to yourself, that you are one serious politician. However, you are either not familiar with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament or you are deliberately telling the truth. It means that Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic would be called off 76 MPs should vote for, 76 should be in favour, so it is not true that only 1 vote divided her from the resolution. And the second majority is the majority, do we have 76 hands, 80, 100 or 150, most of them are the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79609	Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79610	Thank you very much. Mr. Striker, this majority is like the intensity of your voice, I've barely heard what you're saying here. How confident you are about the stability of the government is your gesture enough. Look at the atmosphere, everything that happens in society, how people think, what the trust of citizens is, it all reflects on the stability of the government of the Republic of Croatia. You can have a hundred votes, and you don't trust the citizens and be unstable, but you unfortunately don't have a hundred votes, but you have 76 votes and, unfortunately, 76 votes and you don't trust Croatian citizens. Now, can you explain to me what stability this is for the country? Not at all. But that's what you feel. Your voice barely reached me, it felt in your voice. I had to work hard to hear what you're saying, so much for your persuasion, or what you're saying right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79611	.../Intruder President: Thank you fellow Maras./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79612	Wait a minute, this is of interest to the Croatian public, I beg you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79613	.../Intruder President: Comrade Maras, you are not a spic candidate, you may be a steak candidate, but your time has run out./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79614	Okay, maybe I'm not a spy candidate, or a steak candidate like you, maybe you're not a spy candidate at the HDZ Club, and you're not hers, either, but let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79615	.../Intruder President: I won't let you finish because your time is up. Come on, sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79616	No, I'm not going to sit down. If you let someone talk as much as they want, then we can finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79617	.../Intruder President: I let you speak longer than it took, more than it took.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79618	Don't treat some people differently, some people differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79619	.../Intruder President: A colleague of Maras has completed your debate. Let's move on now. It's my friend Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79620	Dear ladies and gentlemen. We are witnessing a situation where Croatia is actually ahead of a breakdown, external debt, public debt and internal debt growth from month to month, year after year. The burden on residents is thus increasing, not only because of the growth of debt in absolute numbers, but also because of the decline in the population. It's just that the burden of debt per capita is getting bigger and bigger. Such a situation will eventually have to be broken down, eventually all will have to be sold out, and eventually, when all sales are sold out, there will be austerity measures as in Greece. That's when it's going to be the so-called turn. and so-called Involve. I must warn this in the case of workers of the Croatian highways that 1000 will be fired because one part of the agreement on taking a new loan to pay off old loans in highways meant the introduction of an electronic toll payment. In other words, foreign lenders who give money, those who borrow it, they condition the granting of these loans by actually reducing costs, they call it by increasing cost-effectiveness or as already and ultimately workers will be very little on highways, they will not work there and they are all people who were more or less caught over political lines. Which means that the incarceration system is sometimes turned against those very ears. And my message to all of you is this: This government, or HDZ, is not for you, it is only temporary for you in order to get your votes. The moment you become a burden and a burden, and in this system it's only a matter of when you become this government will turn against you and there's a problem. Namely, there are no alternative jobs for you to draw it even better like this. It is not a problem if there are extra jobs in shipyards, or if more people work than they should. The problem is if these people have nowhere else to work and that's actually the problem with this government. The problem with the government is not that there are too many workers in a factory or shipyard. The problem is, there's no other job. This government will not create other jobs, nor will there be a plan for their creation. I want to tell people that it's not some individual's fault or some company. It is simply a macro policy of economics chosen by us, which involves an unrealistic exchange rate of kuna, a currency clause on loans, a restrictive monetary policy, etc. etc. All these questions I have raised are never discussed in the European Commission, and I will explain why. Because the issue of exchange rate policy or monetary policy is generally never the subject of debate because it is intended to be the same and not change. Why? Because the goal is to keep each EU member country in permanent debt and economic slavery, and that is why I must, especially for the sake of young people, point out the future of Croatia in this economic model. And that is why the only way out of such a situation is also leaving the EU. Without leaving the EU, we cannot change our monetary policy, we cannot protect our production by changing courses, we cannot introduce customs duties for importing EU products, and it is also no secret that we do not decide anything in NATO. In fact, although NATO has a consensus on decisions, it is a fact that one Montenegro cannot, for example, make a clear disagreement, so that all other Member States cannot implement what they are up to. In other words, the consensus only needs de jure on paper, and de facto America actually decides everything and everyone else is her listeners. I'd like to point out why. So because without sovereignty, means economic and foreign policy our country cannot succeed. We can't develop. We cannot make decisions that are in our interest, but on the contrary, we can only do someone else's will, conduct other people's opinions, implement to say so in a foreign directive. Without sovereignty, there is no survival of the people in our realms, and in fact this lack of economic sovereignty of the state is ultimately reflected in every individual who is ultimately economically dependent. So if the state is in economic slavery and its citizens are. They were handed over to foreign banks, handed over to the perpetrators, handed over to them for mercy and mercy. This government has no intention of changing anything. This government is government status quo. This is a government that doesn't deal with these problems, meaning the problem of demographic breakdown. He's not interested in the government. So instead of saying that the prime minister says people we have a problem 200,000 young people have left Croatia since I became prime minister. He's gonna say no, ladies and gentlemen, we've recordd a reduction in unemployment. So there's a replacement of thesis and what's actually a bad thing, so the escape of 200,000 people from the country is trying to get through some kind of economic dictionary and a term to reduce unemployment as the success of this government. I think it is a failure, because jobs in Croatia are not open. These people didn't stay here, and the question is when they'll be back and how many of them. And then the words they say from that song will be fulfilled, says "the tribune that there are fewer of us, they weren't there or then they'll tell everyone." But while there are people who are conscious in this country there will also be resistance to such a plan and programme. The resistance to this policy existed before the 1990s, it existed even after the 1990s and it exists now. And that's why I'm standing in the Croatian Parliament. I call upon the Croatian people to stay away from the spirit. I want to tell all members of my people, and therefore other peoples, not to give up fighting for a better Croatia. She's possible. We can succeed as a society. We don't have to live in poverty, have a criminal elite in power, but each of us has to do everything in his power to change the situation. So I here from the Parliament speaker invite all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to resist the totalitarian system that controls all media, which controls cash flows, which actually controls what is the most terrible human head. So I'm calling on citizens to break out of hypnosis manipulation and another thought I just want to tell them. Every time one of you who is bitter about HDZ policy leaves Croatia, he is actually doing a service to HDZ because HDZ will be easier to win elections if those who, let's say, are 200,000 voters who are against HDZ and bitter HDZ come out of the country, Mr Plenkovic knows, it is 200,000 less voters who will vote against his party, or for another party. And another thought is that whatever country you go to or move to, you'll be strangers, you won't be yourself on your own, and you'll always be second-class citizens. They say Germans auslander, you'll be auslanders or I don't know immigrants in America as they call it or Australia, etc. etc. It's sad and embarrassing to leave our country when we're a rich country. I must repeat that half of all islands in the Mediterranean are located in Croatia ladies and gentlemen. I was shocked to hear that. So one Israel has only a few coral reefs, there is not one inhabited island, or real island, Lebanon either. Syria has only one small island that is inhabited. I'm telling you here, I just want to show you what Croatia's potential is. We can build nautical tourism in Croatia, we can, as much as make a marina we can rent places for yachts and we can make money. So we have a coast, we can urbanize it, we can and have our own food, we don't have GMO food, we can grow Indian hemp. My people can do miracles, but it takes political will, HDZ doesn't have it, the living wall has it. And I call on all citizens of our country to support us in the first elections to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79621	We have two replicas. First up, he's a colleague of Falcon's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79622	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's colleague Pernar, I always like to replicate to you, maybe I'm one of the few here, but I really like it because it's very simple. So it's just... The incorrect data you've provided and then I'm facing you with rights and exactly, if you won't admit it, but that's another thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you were talking about public debt growth, so if we look at the ratio of public debt to GDP, the record would be 2014 when it was 85.8%. The biggest growth was the year of 2012 to 2013 when it jumped from 70.6 to 81.7. Today we are in a situation where this public debt is below 80% of the BPD. If we add to the fact that for the first time in this millennium, we have a surplus of the state budget and the growth of credit ratings, then simply everything you said doesn't stand. And that's what I think the public should know anyway and I recommend to you there's an institution called Eurostat, the data is all available, you can try a little bit and look at it. It's not much of a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79623	Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79624	Thank you, Your Honor, so I'll try to explain it to you this way. You claim that the public debt has fallen because its share in GDP has decreased, but Mr. I am speaking to you in absolute amounts, meaning in absolute amounts of Croatia's debt per year is growing. And what he is in the share of BPD is the question of how GDP counts and who is actually profiting from GDP growth, whether it's Croatian citizens or foreign banks, etc., or whether the profits of foreign banks are their incomes, you're counting it all on BPD. What I'm saying is that your growth in GDP and some god-awful reductions in debt do not benefit citizens. I'm telling you that the total debt is getting bigger and that the average citizen is getting more and more due and now you can philosophize as much as you want. And as for the rest of your claims, and sir, when one day you're blocked, if you do, you'll understand what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79625	And the last replica of my colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79626	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, here I would like to ask you a simple question. So 77% of our citizens think that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, they are unhappy, their situation is catastrophic, leaving Croatian people etc., and then we hear the argument that this, from HDZ, is essentially the opposite. Now it's not clear to me how it is that everyone doesn't feel it except for a few people who appear publicly on behalf of the HDZ, who accuse, for example, of disaster seekers who artificially created the climate that the situation is negative and, in fact, according to HDZ, the situation is good. So I'm wondering if you're sharing this conspiracy theory that HDZ promotes or do you think that's not the case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79627	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79628	The Prime Minister has recently become prone to conspiracy theories. For a time, he said that we from the Living Wall wanted to destroy his government, break it, and now he is inclined to have some of the ruling majority who might want to break it. But what is crucial is that public perception depends on what they watch on television. So that unfortunate box controls people's heads. And if TV shows just some fairy tale stuff, then people think everything's great and everything is great. And that reminds me of those ISIL propaganda videos from Syria where they share children with candy, where they're all happy and smiling, where everything is full of food, where people enjoy, children play, etc., and in reality there was hell on earth. In the same way, the HDZ through HRT shows citizens that everything is great and of course 77% as you say does not trust HRT, and every day that percentage is growing, as well as disagreement with government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-13-0.u79629	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I announce the start of next week on Wednesday 18 April at 9.30 p.m. The final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. The rest of you will get in time. Thank you very much. The session was interrupted at 13.08 p.m. We are now going to vote on the debated points. First: European Council and European Council meetings reports, Article 50, held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018. The applicant is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social and Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, the Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, the reformist and independent representatives and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I am voting on the following conclusion: Reports on the meetings of the European Council and the European Council of Article 50 held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 84 for, 40 abstentions and 8 votes against the adopted Report on the meetings of the European Council and the European Council were held in Brussels on 22 and 23 March 2018.
