ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66240	Good morning, we're back to work, i.e. We begin work with the Proposal for a Law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 292. But, of course, before the point, my colleague, Peja Grbin, the SDP club, came in first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The SDP club is seeking a 10-minute break regarding the economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66242	Thank you. Live wall, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66243	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to talk about slowing GDP growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66244	Thank you. Next up, a colleague named Lovrinović came forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66245	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, I have no right to take a break but please allow me to continue when we return from vacation to ask you a question as a representative who must be interested in the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66246	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66247	Then please allow me, I am not asking a question here on my behalf to ask you, but the question is intended for the President of the Parliament, you are now replacing it. Why doesn't the agenda item on the CNB Report come in a year and a half on the achievement of the monetary policy objectives? It stands here for the first half of 2016, the second half, 2017, who simply protects the governor from criticism or debates uncomfortable in the Assembly, and how does the President of the Parliament define the agenda? Why is he stalling and hiding this topic extremely important for all Croatian citizens? I want to put it on behalf of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66248	Okay, thank you, thank you. You'll have to ask the President of the Parliament a question. Next up is Nikola Grumoja, Club of Representatives of the Most, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66249	Dear Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66250	Thank you. That's what we're done with, so we'll continue at 9.45 minutes. Thank you. [[It's 9:00.35.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] A fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66252	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. HEP is not in my vault. The dead-cold minister said he was in charge of state property management. A man led by a resistor who performs administrative and other tasks relating to management, availability, acquisition and sale of state property, I quote art. 23.a The Law establishing the division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration and coordinating the management, availability, acquisition and sale of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is in the jurisdiction of other central authorities of the state administration. The man whose vault is every stock that the Republic of Croatia has. Asked about the privatisation of HEP further, he says: I am not in the HEP assembly or on the supervisory board, so I don't know. And I am now asking you, especially your colleagues and colleagues from the ruling ones, which will then be given to us by the Ministry of State Property Management, when the minister at the head of that portfolio knows nothing about privatising the largest commercial company that remains owned by the Republic of Croatia. The privatisation announced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia more than a year ago. Do you remember any more of that? You remember the announcement that we will nationalise the INA and that nationalisation will be financed by the privatisation of HEP. Do you remember? The minister obviously forgot about it. Okay, he'll say one. The Ministry of State Property may not be here to manage any company in each individual portfolio. The ministry has been here to prepare plans, to prepare strategies, to create a framework for managing and making available property owned by the Republic of Croatia. But look at the devil. The latest property management plan owned by the Republic of Croatia has been brought by Milanovic's government. Since then, we no longer have plans to manage and dispose of state-owned assets even though it is a clear and explicit legal obligation to make such a plan in the current year for the next year. We don't care about plans like that. Okay. We may not have plans, but we have a strategy for managing state property. But there's a problem. The State Property Management Strategy was last adopted for the period from 2013-2017. So the State Property Management Strategy has expired. She's gone. We don't have a single document to regulate how state property will be managed to define what we're going to sell, what we're not going to sell, what we're going to borrow, etc. There isn't! But decisions are made. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the nationalisation of the INA, as I have already mentioned, of which this home, even though the interpretation is in the process, does not want to discuss for over a year and two months. Privatization of HEP. We've got problems in Petrokemia. Yesterday, the Uljanika administration informed us that the state's restructuring plan expects 2 billion and 100 million kuna, with 1150 workers fired. And what does the Department of State Property do at the time? He acts as a real estate agency and sells state-owned apartments, and he does that while at the same time we have a serious problem of protected tenants that we plan to throw out on the street during a certain period of time. The Ministry of State Property Management in this form has proved to be completely unnecessary. Dear colleagues and colleagues, especially you from the ruling majority, consider this exposure an appeal. We lost over two years when the issue of government property management is on the agenda. More than two years. You won the election and you formed power, but that didn't give you ownership of the Republic of Croatia. You've got a responsibility, so it's time to start acting like one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66253	Thank you, fellow coat of arms. Next, a colleague, Branimir Bunjac, is in front of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66254	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. During the 2017 budget, the government planned a 3.2% growth, and this was confirmed by Minister Zdravko Maric in an interview from 31 May 2017, and said among the ranks that growth could be up to 4%. According to the Trustable HDZ programme, 5% GDP growth is expected in 2020. With the crisis in Agrokor, the Living Wall warned the prime minister that such growth was inconclusive, which he resolutely refused and said that all trends in the economy are positive. Now in the last quarter we see that this is not because we have a growth of very thin 2% and only 1.3% compared to December 2016. At the same time, in November of last year, public debt for the first time in Croatian history exceeded 300 billion kuna and reached its record. I would like to point out that RH is currently in debt on the interest capital market 2.9%. So our 2% GDP growth fails to compensate even for interest costs, which means, by looking at interest costs and looking at public debt, the Republic of Croatia is in fact still in recession, or back in recession trends. This really represents an amazing debacle of this government. I'll say it again - debacle. One real disaster because it fails to take advantage of the situation that all Member States currently have GDP growth in the EU and most interestingly, the EU itself has an average GDP growth of 2.6%, meaning greater than Croatia. For 8 years, Croatia was in recession and there was no wisdom needed to realize that we had the chance to grow more than 5% that we were just a little more responsible than this government does. An even bigger disaster is that agriculture, fishing and forestry have a decline of as much as 5%, that the processing industry is down, and that the buildings and properties are positive 0. I would like to point out that countries in the environment have the following GDP growth, Hungary and Latvia 4.8%, Slovenia 6.2%, Poland 4.3, Romania 7%, Austria and the Netherlands 3.1%, Germany 2.9%, means much more than Croatia is developed and we can tell the three-year economy that does not have such an opportunity for growth as the Croatian economy, which has just been integrated into the EU. I would like to ask the ruling majority, is this an economic bad picture, is it the Rules of Procedure of Parliament's fault? Is that what election legislation is about? Is this about Facebook comments? Whether this is the fault would be the politician, the names of the squares, the boards or it is wrong that there is no reform, which is a territorial structure expensive and inefficient, which the public administration has a crisis of governance because of party entanglement, while corruption is booming, and the executions and blockades choke the existence of 1/5 Croatian citizens, while demographic measures are cosmetic nature, while companies are sold to foreigners, after almost all the banks have been sold, while concessions on water and beaches are given, while agricultural land sales are followed, until the problem of Agrokor, INA or shipbuilding has been solved. I'd like to say, the ruling majority, this time something well-intentioned. You must understand that you can only be kept alive by the results of your government. All the pranks, tricks, petty malice, the cool games and the PR can't save you if your government didn't do what was expected of it. You have the lowest rating at the moment, starting at the time when the government was formed 14.10.2016. You have lost 1/5 voters who voted for you then within 16 months. It's time to take a break. And instead of dealing with the opposition and dealing with marginalities, to start dealing with what the Croatian citizens are most troubled by, and that is, the issue of the economy, the issue of existence, the issue of social justice, the issue of justice, and therefore, the question of the future and not the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66255	Thank you, colleagues of Bunjtsu. Next up is my colleague Bozo Petrov, go ahead and see the Club of Representatives of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66256	Thank you. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, which would happen if we, as parliamentary representatives, really created laws to measure, absolutely every person in the Republic of Croatia. I'll try to find a way to hear me, so I'll try to present it the next way. In 2009, Jure received a notice from the municipal court that he owed 850,000 kn, although he never took a loan. After that there was a trial, today the debt goes up to 2 million kuna, regardless of what the court expert proved to be falsified to it absolutely did not help. His struggle for the justice system lasts 10 years. And if you want to help Yuri the moment you discuss the laws of the judiciary, then you'd ask that at that moment you don't look at your friends, or your colleagues, or the people you know in the system, or how many lawyers will get or lose money, public notebooks and others. Take care of Yuri and the like, because that's why we're here. As the Bridge handed over a package of reforms, we'll direct the others, when you discuss a package of government reform that she handed over, about makeup, remember Jure and remember his family that's been going through hell for the last 10 years. The second picture, Antonia's family took a loan, her father lived, her father was working on the railroad, meanwhile what happened with the Swiss franc, couldn't repay the loan, the bank canceled the contract, he got cancer. At work they thanked him, gave him severance and something to treat, the bank in the meantime sat down to his account, took away an absolute amount of financial resources afterwards he had to go to treatment, he couldn't go to treatment, he died. Remember the executive law we discussed here, remember the amendment and the opportunity you had as parliamentary representatives to change these things. And I'm really asking you, please don't miss your chance next time. Antonia is a real person, she exists and she's there, third picture, today Ivana lives with 3 children, she's single, single mother. Her youngest child went through a series of operations because she was born with birth defects. They live in a 30-square house. At first, they were both powerless and waterless. And their condition was that when it rained out, it would be poured down their walls. Imagine how much more dignified life, her family and the little Ante you can't notice, he's an extremely bright boy, no matter how much he goes through, how much more dignified their life would be, to allow them to get the opportunity not only for heat but for saving themselves for electricity. And we're going to have a chance here, we let the Microsolar Act go, we're going to have a chance to change that together. I could name entrepreneurship laws, public administration, everything that's said and said is going to happen, and it's not really about. I ask you to stand up for the laws, to take advantage of the opportunity to have, we have less than three years left, that at the end of the day when you leave this House you will be proud that you have done something right. I'm not inviting you to disobey your boss, I'm asking you to explain to your boss why it matters because we're three years old. And it doesn't matter who runs the initiative, run all the initiatives, but let these initiatives ultimately result in the well-being of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Limit cosmetics to the toilet area, and show people it was worth spilling blood for Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66257	Thank you, fellow Petrova. In accordance with Article 228, since for the next item of the agenda, as I said, we do not have reports from the competent working bodies we will continue with: - Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014, 2015 and 2016. But before that, colleague Bauk is looking for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66274	Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The SDP representative club suggests that you put the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Violence in the Family, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. Number 105. - Proposer of the SDP Representatives Club. In fact, the Parliament approved an emergency procedure on 10.3. Last year, the government was manifested, on 4 July 2017, and there is no reason why this point should not be discussed since Article 228 allows this to be used as a rule and I suggest that you put it on the agenda after the break we are looking for because of the problem of the elevators in buildings up to 4 floors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66275	Thank you, colleagues, Bauku. So I approve of a ten-minute break. As a member of the SDP, I support this proposal, but during the break we will see if there are business opportunities for this. Thank you very much. [[It's 10:30.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66277	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia joined the EU on 01 July 2013, allowing us to use a large part of the EU funds to help our citizens. In particular, it amounts to over 10 billion for the period 2004-2010, 2014-2020, amounting to over 10 billion euros. Unfortunately, after the use of the EU funds, we are quite poor, i.e. we do not withdraw enough funds and SDP representatives' club, which wants to address our citizens' problems in the Republic of Croatia, proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to support the initiative and to include in the programme of using EU funds one project that would allow the installation of elevators in all buildings in the Republic of Croatia that have at least 3 floors on the ground floor. So it could be 3, but it could be in some cases, which is almost incredible, but in the Republic there are buildings without elevators that have 7 and 8 floors. At this point, it's about 16 thousand entrances to the Republic of Croatia, or 16 thousand possibilities to install elevators to help our citizens of later age, that they don't have to think every day about whether they're going to leave their building two or three times, whether they can go to the store, whether they can do something for themselves and their family. EU funds also allow for an increase in the living conditions of the needy, poor or disfellowshipped persons, especially persons with disabilities, families or older people. So, EU funds provide such programmes and it is almost incredible that the government of the Republic of Croatia is missing the possibility of relatively simply reaching EU funds that would help, I said 16 thousand entry into the Republic of Croatia, or over 700 thousand of our citizens covered by this programme. We propose adding one part related to inclusion and health, i.e. investment priority 9a, which includes the care infrastructure for older people, to include housing infrastructure and its adaptation, in changes to the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion in priority axis 8. In this way, to enable the EU to co-finance 80% of this project, in this way to enable more than 700 thousand of our citizens to have more quality housing, in this way around 3-4 billion kunas of projects to be launched in the Republic of Croatia, which will indirectly benefit our industry directly, since we also have our elevator manufacturers, i.e. elevators, which will thus employ over two thousand of our citizens. So we have a direct benefit. Number one, for 750 thousand of our citizens who will have a better housing, over 2,000 new jobs and the use of around 3-4 billion kunas of European funds, which, unfortunately, we are not using at the moment. This is a message and a request from the SDP Club for which we will launch a public petition in order to get as many citizens involved in this kind of support as possible and to show the rulings that there is a need to secure elevators in all the higher buildings in all our cities, so that our older citizens will have no problem getting out of their apartment once or twice during the day. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, especially in the city of Zagreb, which is about 6000 such entrances, which the mayor of Zagreb could start an initiative and a program like this because for a rotor who works in the city of Zagreb 250 million kuna that is there in New Zagreb, in 4 years the city of Zagreb could solve this problem itself. And that's why we're here and that's why everyone who can influence the Republic of Croatia should deal with our fellow citizens' problems and help our fellow citizens, especially those of older age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66278	Time. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66279	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here in the Croatian Parliament you never know when anyone will request a break. Given the circumstances I haven't been here, if I were, I would have signed up to talk about this same subject, but since I haven't been looking for a break of 10 minutes or I can speak right now if you want, I'm asking for a break of 10 minutes to talk about this subject because I think I know some more details.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66280	Okay, now you can't, we have to start with new points, you can look for a break, so a little bit more. Before the replica of his colleagues, the HSU and GLAS Club are looking for a break. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66282	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, I'm looking for a ten-minute break to discuss some new details about the installation of the diesel in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66283	Thank you. So I'd like a break by 11.16 minutes. [[It's 11:00 P.M.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:16 AM]] Here is my colleague, Hrelj, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66285	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I called for a break to talk about the problem of installing elevators in the Republic of Croatia and it would be fair to say that they always admit who initiated it. Secondly, I started talking about this a year ago and asked Prime Minister Plenkovic if he intends to propose that he enter it and open a new niche to finance these EU projects. It should be said that this is being systematically handled by a gentleman at the late age of 84, Mr. Želimir Manenica, and thanks to the Association of HT and HPT pensioners, we today have known all the entrances from... in the Republic of Croatia, which needs an elevator, i.e. they have the possibility of installing an elevator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Last year, the regulation on, or the Construction Act changed and no longer required a building permit as one of the expedient environments for the installation of elevators. Continuing this problem also deals with the euro representative Biljana Borzana, who contacted all relevant in the European Commission and who received confirmation that it is possible that the installation of the elevator in the Republic of Croatia is co-financed with 80%. According to experts, it is possible to install about 8.5 thousand lifts somewhere, which in calculations with an average price of 50 thousand euros, some five-storey means more than 4 billion kunas the value of these projects. However, the situation has broken down and at this point, of course HSU with its coalition partners is active all over Croatia, we contact the representatives of tenants and building managers and ask them to express their interest in the ministry so that the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds will have an experience at all about the needs and motivation of the people for the installation of elevators and, through the installation of the elevator, Croatia gets on the mobility of citizens. So citizens can live normally, live on the 5th floor, drop down, do all their needs, and this way we have situations that maybe once a year come down from their 4th, 5th or 6th floor, or they can't come down at all, but they all have to beg their neighbors to get food and all their basic supplies. And imagine what it's like for those who give first aid services to the Red Cross, fire departments, service services if they still have to do certain work with such efforts and how they will be on the 5th, 6th floor to provide help or service to people in need. So this is one, one very good project for Croatia, good for the movement and mobility of citizens and not only older and powerless but also families with small children and persons with disabilities. So this is a good project for everyone. Our initiatives and applications and press conferences and local and local ones in the Croatian Parliament have in some way produced fruit because at the moment there is an active working group between the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds. And it's definitely making all the assumptions that would go into changing the funding program. What I would recommend to my colleague, dear colleague Maras, to the president of my Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, I would recommend to him that, until the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, when he does not have to ask for a majority on the board to put a topic on the agenda of the thematic, thematic session of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership put the problem of residents of the Republic, as it writes in the current Rules of Procedure as part of the work of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. So we don't have to, we really don't have to expose ourselves from this pay phone, but we can look for the thematic session and then call all the relevant subjects and look for what stage it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u66286	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. We're moving on to the agenda. He's the first. - Proposal for a law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services, first reading, P.Z.E. number 292. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? An additional explanation will be given by State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Mr. Zeljko Tufekčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73176	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the proposal for a law on conditions for providing customs representation services, it is a completely new legislative proposal governing the area of customs representation, and in accordance with the powers conferred on Member States to regulate eu legislation. This law also replaces the current Law on conditions for the performance of representation operations in the customs procedure which will cease to apply. Therefore, the customs representation is to carry out the actions and formalities of the customs legislation prescribed by the customs representative for the account of the person represented in its business with the customs authorities. In the Republic of Croatia, according to the current normative framework of customs representation tasks, customs consignors, i.e. Legal persons performing representation tasks and authorised customs agents natural persons taking customs representation actions as employees of customs consignors. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since 9 October 2013, the European Parliament and the Council, on the Union Customs Code, which is directly applicable to the territory of its Member States making up the EU Customs Area, shall also be subject to the issue of customs representation. In this regard, Article 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The customs code of the Union prescribed that Member States may, in accordance with EU law, determine the conditions under which a customs representative may provide services in the Member State of establishment. The EU's general customs legislation is directly applicable in the EU area, which empowers Member States to issue certain issues in the field of customs legal relations with national regulations and in accordance with the Union's legal principles and the basic principles of Union customs legislation. What's the current situation? In the Republic of Croatia, the conditions for the performance of customs representation operations were governed by the Law on the conditions for the performance of representation in the 2001 customs procedure. That law relied significantly on the customs legal regime from the time before the entry into the EU of the Republic of Croatia, which also took effect on 1 July 2016 and fully reformed EU customs legislation. In particular, the Union Customs Code and the regulations supplementing it and implementing it together with the national rules adopted in accordance with the powers laid down in that Code shall constitute a full legal regime governing the provision of customs representation services following the adoption of this law as a result of the legal property of the Union. In view of the above, it is necessary to indicate the urgency of the adoption of this law in order to comply with the EU acquis or customs legislation adopted at EU level, thus enabling the full application of the provisions of Article 18 to be applied. Union Customs Code. The regulation of the area of providing customs representation services constitutes the final act of the regulatory harmonisation of the Croatian customs legal system with the obligations arising from the new or earlier reformed EU customs legislation, which took effect in May 2016. The measures proposed by the new law, therefore in accordance with the powers conferred on Member States by the Customs Code on Member States to regulate certain issues in the field of customs regulations which are not subject to the EU's jurisdiction, the law on the conditions for the performance of customs representation operations will regulate the setting of conditions and procedural rules for the granting and proof of the right to carry out customs representation tasks, i.e. the status of an authorised customs consignor and the status of an authorised customs representative for the provision of customs representation services. The lease of business space owned by the Republic of Croatia at the location of the border crossing will be arranged, keeping records will be arranged. In addition, expert examinations and professional training of authorised customs agents and supervision of the proper application of this law. What will be achieved for economic operators? Therefore, the adoption of this law will result in the first modernisation and substantial simplification of the legal regime for the provision of customs representation services, which will now be subject to only one type of authorisation in relation to the existing legal regime governing the enforcement of three types of authorisation, and this authorisation for the provision of customs representation services is now prescribed. the authorisation of a customs consignor and the concept of a customs agent is introduced. It is also further flexible to carry out customs representation operations which simplifies and lowers the total customs operations in the holding in such a way that, in accordance with EU law, the obligation to authorise customs representation operations, or under the new customs agent status regime, must be lifted by a natural person who, as a representative of a legal person or trader, takes the actions and formalities required under customs legislation in business with customs authorities. The second expert examination for a customs agent shall also be considered as proof of the EU's compliance with the customs rules laid down in relation to the approval of different customs simplifications. It therefore facilitates and simplifies administrative requirements and procedures to demonstrate compliance with these criteria. Furthermore, the simplification of administrative requirements and procedures for approval, the performance of customs representation operations in business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia at the location of border crossings. The suspension of the obligation to issue an authorisation to carry out the customs consignor’s operations at the border crossing is also foreseen and it is prescribed that the business space owned by the Republic of Croatia at the location of the border crossing shall be leased to the customs consignor. And finally in the interest of legal certainty, therefore respecting the acquired rights of parties and their legitimate expectations and a successful transition to a new legal arrangement by transitional provisions is ensured the validity of already issued authorisations. Otherwise, 612 authorised customs consignors are currently operating in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. legal persons and about 2.5 thousand authorised customs agents, therefore natural persons and under the new regime of customs agents. In addition to harmonising with the acquis, this law significantly simplifies business for those economic operators as well as for their employees in terms of reducing administrative requirements and as already explained in advance. The law goes into two readings, which is certainly an opportunity for possible further improvements to this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73177	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for explaining the draft law on the conditions for providing customs representation services. There's a replica of my colleague Maras on his display, please. ... Let's apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Before I open the debate, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Seeing as I don't, I'll just give one technical note. Since the agenda is item 2 of the proposal for a law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences for terrorism and other serious criminal offences, first reading, P.Z. No. We'll put 294 in the last place because the parent board is only 11 and we'll continue after this point with a united debate on the report on the work of the Governing Council for 2014, 2015 and 2016, if that's okay with you? Thank you. So now we're starting a debate on behalf of the Advocacy Club. First is colleague Anton Kleman in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is the HDZ Club, in its first reading, will support this law in order to regulate the regulation governing customs regulations. This law is one of those smaller laws that regulates the issue of a customs agent and representation of a customs consignor and with its employees according to therefore to the user of customs services. In principle, this law is such that it adapts to EU laws and uses the opportunity to sort out issues that are allowed by these EU rules. It is important to say about this law that it was in the process, so the debate with the interested public is a very small number of objections to the law, only 10th, so it is a sign that the law is well prepared. Because when we see in that section, in that part of the public’s remarks, a lot of objections means that the public is interested, or the profession is not satisfied with the proposed solutions. We've had exactly 10 remarks here, I'd say which are one part and accepted in the very text of the law, one part has been rejected but basically nothing. So we can say that the profession is satisfied with this bill, and I don't see any dubiosis under that law, and I think all clubs should support it, and I think that's how it's going to be. What is important to say is that this bill simplifies the procedure in the regulation itself, which prescribes these procedures. And here's after what we had in the last law that would cease to apply by adopting this law is that we will no longer have three types of customs clearance, so far it's been so that the approval to do business by an authorised customs consignor, it's one for a legal person. Then we had permission to carry out the duties of an authorised customs consignor at the border crossing and to carry out the duties of an authorised customs representative for a natural person. And it was prescribed, i.e. it was still prescribed that one authorised customs representative could carry out customs operations so that only one customs consignor, i.e. representation, could be sent. Now this changes, and so with an authorised customs consignor, we have one notion, and that's one agent, which is now a customs agent. I think it's very good because it'll simply simplify the customs business itself and it'll also cost certain customs services. We have this series of provisions that well regulate this issue, so here some can state, therefore, the passed expert exam for a customs agent, will be considered proof that he can handle these tasks, so he won't need any additional tests, additional certificates. So this exam will be quite enough for a customs agent to do those jobs. Therefore, it will not need any special authorisation of customs action at the border crossing point and will also be strongly simplified and, therefore, the lease of business premises for which the Republic of Croatia at the border crossing points and will in some ways be more justly resolved and there will be an opportunity for a public competition so that space can be purchased which will later allow for the work of the customs consignor. All in all, I think this law in first reading is okay, the only thing I think you should see, since in transitional provisions, later provisions, let's just say that, you have two ways of defining criminal provisions, or, infractions, you have serious injuries and minor injuries. So I think perhaps in the spirit of the good state, that in these easier provisions, therefore, easier violations, you may not immediately be going to sanction finance, but perhaps with some kind of warning, to see, when you've already classified one and the other when it's not solved in one item all, that you might see the possibility that some easier offenses might start with a warning first and then solve the issue, later on when you repeat the offenses. So that's some suggestion, and otherwise the law as such, here, has a very passing assessment for us, and we as the HDZ Club will support that law in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73179	I thank my colleague Anton Kleman. Next up is counterpart Boris Lalovac on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of Lalovac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, as we have heard, means it's a bill, which represents alignment with EU regulations, which means it's more technical in nature, so it could go into emergency procedure by uniting first and second reading and we see, we have the situation of the Rules of Procedure, which goes according to procedure. And these are the laws that are of a technical nature, which I think as soon as possible, when they are passed and given some of the reliefs that they bring, that we should go into an emergency procedure, where we have said, several times on the Committee on Finance, that we will support it and that these laws, where we agree with the opposition, opposition and by ruling to speed up these procedures, we see that we are pushing them through two readings, and what is important, unfortunately, are going into an emergency procedure. So right now in the Republic of Croatia, as has already been spoken by 612 authorised customs consignors, i.e. Legal persons performing representation tasks, and about 2,500 authorised customs agents, i.e. natural persons taking customs representation actions as employees of customs consignors. What is the essence of this law other than this harmonisation is that the existing legal regime, which regulates the obligation to comply with 3 types of approval, and today it is an authorisation to carry out the tasks of an authorised customs consignor, means for a legal person you need approval. Then you also need authorisation to carry out the tasks of an authorised customs consignor at a border crossing, means for a legal person who performs representation tasks at a border crossing and you need a third authorisation, an authorisation to carry out the tasks of an authorised natural person who performs as a customs agent. This bill proposes to regulate that only one type of approval, means approvals for the provision of customs representation services and the introduction of the concept of a customs agent, meaning this, this law, means reducing that particular administration, which is now on the single customs market, because we know that threatening all economic integrations has been the customs union. The customs union of European countries, Croatia, I think, was quite well prepared when the Republic of Croatia enters the EU, as regards these customs regulations and adjustments, although I say, customs was the first to be hit, given the large number of people who worked at these border crossings no longer. I think the customs administration has done quite well in this particular transformation, the transformation of that part of the job, and certainly this further proposal will continue to be simplified, so that in this context, praises both to the customs administration and to the Ministry of Finance, related to simplifying that part of the job. Moreover, what is important is that, with this law due to the interest of legal certainty, respect for already bankruptcy rights because certain approvals and successful transitions to this correction association have already been granted, means that transitional provisions have ensured the validity of already issued approvals during a certain period, i.e. until the expiry of the period of validity of the previously granted approvals. So the SDP Representatives Club will support this bill, as I said, I think it would be good if this went into one reading, it's technically nature, you have and as far as committees are concerned, unanimously supported by this law, and that as soon as possible these laws come into force and make business easier for our entrepreneurs, and those others that are more political, that we can discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73181	Thank you, fellow Members of Boris Lalovac, for his presentation on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, we have two replicas, a replica from counterpart Jelkovac Maria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73182	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lalovac, you have stated in your debate that in fact you believe that such technical changes to the law would be better to go through one reading, i.e. through an emergency procedure and that it would only speed up the adoption and that in that part I might agree with you in some way, but we have in fact prescribed what things we are doing under the urgent procedure. And I can only say that this government is really trying to implement what is prescribed and, unlike your government, which practically brought most of it into the emergency procedure when it was much bigger what it is than that now that we have these technical changes through two readings. And as for the very procedure of adopting the Rules of Procedure, so I can't agree with you to hurry here because we really had a long procedure when all clubs could first send their proposals to the proposer then we had two meetings on committees where we all discussed as well. And so and then the amendments were still being submitted to the original draft and there was still a public debate. So I think we could all really say everything about the Rules of Procedure's proposal and propose those amendments and the proposals we actually considered necessary. So I think there's really a valid reason for him to go on as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73183	Thank you. Answer, here's your colleague, Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So he has to understand that I'm amazed at this form of replica, since I've given you support for this form of law. The promoter didn't say the reason why this is going in two readings. So it might be good in the finals to say why it goes into two readings and not, although we do know that all European laws that are of a technical nature have priority and that they can go according to emergency procedures, so I would definitely correct you in that part. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, I did not engage in this debate, I spoke more about the political nature of this document and that it would be good to discuss, you made the decision. And what you're saying is that in the past, some laws have been passed that have been quite harmful, and I don't think that's correct in such a way that we can discuss it especially when we're talking about this, we could get me a bunch of things that haven't been done right. However, even when these laws are passed, I wanted to be constructive in this regard, it seems that with HDZ, even when we commend you that you can discuss something constructively, you cannot respond positively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73185	Thank you, fellow Lalovac, and the next replica is colleague Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lalovac, here in your constructive debate you definitely said a lot of what we agree on, we agree in principle that this law is good and that it should be implemented as soon as possible. I'd just like to mention one of your comments about it. Neither you nor I are in the debate... Something important that now an agent like that can represent not only one legal person,... [[You don't understand a word.]] one customs consignor than he can represent more than I think is good, because it should be said that it is not such a small segment of legal persons and people working in that economic branch because we have today 612 authorised customs consignors in the Republic of Croatia and 2.5 thousand in the future of agents or customs agents. [[You don't understand a word.]] So it will simplify the work of customs agents, i.e. agents and flexible their work absolutely so they will be able to work for more consignors which I think is good because they will be able to fluctuate much more at border crossings and they will be able to do that job. I think it's a very good solution and in any case in that law it's well solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73187	Replication response, colleague of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, as I was saying at the outset, I commended the customs service that one of the first organisations within all ministries has actually adapted to the EU market, i.e. the Single Customs Union. We also think this will continue to simplify business even though we know it wasn't a simple process. We also saw large columns at the border crossings where you had to complete the infrastructure and technically adapt. I know it was, but there was a lot of indignity back then. However, I think that the Customs Union of all services has reached the most and as far as e-documents are concerned and as far as the entire business is concerned, so this part goes in the fact that it is really the Customs Authority, and I say here I publicly publicly commended one of the better organisational units, not only within the Ministry of Finance but within the entire state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73189	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. And now it's an individual debate of counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73190	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with the Deputy, Director of Customs of the Republic of Croatia. So, in the introduction of the proposal, here is the law in the conditions of providing customs representation services, saying that in fact this law regulates our national legislation but also the implementation of the EU Regulation 925/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council since 9 October 2013. And in fact, this regulation settles the issue of a customs representative. Therefore, the regulation alone allows EU Member States to determine the conditions under which a customs representative may provide services in the Member States in which he has a business establishment, as well as a State Secretary. This law is necessary to adopt and fully and normably regulate the implementation of customs legislation. The Republic of Croatia is obliged to regulate the issue of conditions for a customs representative. The law allows for a good administrative and simplification and provides for the obligation of only one authorisation to provide customs representation services. approvals for the customs consignor. The law also regulates what is important and is related to border crossings and leases, the purchase of business premises owned by the Republic of Croatia through a public tender. And by law, which was also highlighted by the secretary of state, which is very important, it is greatly appropriate for the businessmen and this is what Mr Lalovac spoke about, so the current Rules of Procedure allow certain laws to be passed by emergency procedure. I believe that and this law is one of those that was possible to bring it by emergency procedure, I don't see why he would go in two readings. It is appropriate for economies to make it simple or simplified because now one authorised customs agent can carry out customs representation actions for several customs consignors. It is necessary to tell or distinguish between a customs consignor who, as a customs representative, provides customs representation services and a customs agent who is a more natural person who, as an employee of a customs consignor, takes customs representation actions. It is also important to stress that the obligation to approve for customs representation operations is lifted, or until this customs agent has to have a natural person who, as an employee of a legal person in this case of a company, said I was taking those actions and formalities required under customs legislation in the commercial customs authorities. Kliman stressed that a large number of interested public were not involved in the public debate, saying that this law or rather the working group prepared this law well and implementing this EU regulation, but also specificities related to national customs legislation in the Republic of Croatia. So she took care of both the content, the matter of the law and the specificities of customs treatment in the Republic of Croatia. What was related to the criminal provisions spoken of by Mr Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Club, and this was also talked about on the parent committee where an objection was made regarding the criminal provisions which are extremely high and the question is whether it is possible to put into the pre-treatment law before punishment and why the state cannot mitigate penalties for those who are dealing with so-called ‘the Court of Justice’. Get on with the job as said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73191	We have one replica, here's your colleague, Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73192	... We once tried to emphasize this on the sidelines of the debate with the secretary of state and we touched the issue. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here I would pray once again really to see the possibility of seeing for yourself that these are not small for easier violations for a legal person up to 80,000 kuna, and for a natural person up to 30,000 kuna fines, so see if it's possible to drag this whole story through. If we have already been grading violations of difficult cases and easier cases, these easier cases by their own name say that they are not that difficult. It's a normal thing that we can't tolerate someone who's dealing with the overdrive should be removed from the market, not only punishable but also harder to sanction, so I don't see that he could even enter this category of easier violations. One more thing I would like to stress is that there will be no border crossing left without a customs consignor and a customs agent if there is no business space in the lease because there have been provided moments when in the public tender there is no distinction of business space that can be given for one year without a public tender to rent until the next public tender, so that it is a good solution that there is no one in the indefinitely seeking someone who is interested in working on that border crossing but that a continued business can continue as the state administration imagined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73193	Thank you. Before responding, we would like to welcome the Association of Pensioners of the Brdovec Municipality, which is currently in the assembly. Nice to meet you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73194	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since here is a colleague, Kleman, who has been dealing with criminal provisions, and he has been talking about examples of practice and life, I also think that we should consider these things regarding criminal provisions, especially those provisions that are extremely high in order to make certain advances. I said so in my debate, and here, given that this is the first reading, I think that until the second reading, there is the possibility that the proposing and working group might consider this part and bring the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73195	Thank you. Now we're closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73196	Now we're going to vote on the points we discussed. The first is the draft law on conditions for providing customs representation services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 292. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a law on conditions for the provision of customs representation services is adopted. Secondly, all comments will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 108 votes in favour and 13 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73197	So, we continue with the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2015, 2015, 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73198	Mr Vice President, you just want to give me an explanation on the basis of my request and the application of Article 228 to a specific situation which was 15 or 18 minutes ago when there were no applicants, rapporteurs, etc. when the order could be applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73199	Proposer, the rapporteur was sitting in the hall... I'm telling you that during the session, there can only be a change of order if there is no agenda for each item of the motion authority or government report and we agreed to skip the second item of the agenda and to unite the third, fourth and fifth points together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you think that I have violated the Rules of Procedure which is still in existence now, you have article 236. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73200	Mr. Vice President, I didn't even raise a breach of the Rules of Procedure to have a business right to request an opinion from the Constitutional Committee, I'm just giving a useful suggestion that you agreed with.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73201	I'm psychic. We can continue with a joint discussion on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for 2014, 2015 and 2016. The HINA Act, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The government has delivered an opinion, please the President of the Governing Council of HINA, Mrs. Maya Plescalt, for an opening statement, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73202	... Honored representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] As chairman of the Governing Council of HINA elected in 2017, it is my duty to inform you of the work of the Governing Council for 2014, 2015 and 2016. What is evident from all three reports of the Governing Council is the positive business of HINA, which is not only about financial success and the restructuring of HINA but also about editorial policy and the successful completion of development projects. During 2013 HINA approached a very painful process of restructuring, and it was ordered by the authorities of the Ministry of Finance and Budgetary Control when expenditures were required to be cut at all levels. Almost 5 years later, in 2014, HINA for the first time did business in plus, then there were 273 343 kuna surplus revenues used for further basic activities of HINA and invested in technical and technological progress. During 2014 HINA made a total of 25.5 million revenues, it achieved on the market 8.22 million kuna, which remained at the level of the previous year and was regularly paid off for restructuring that was fully paid out in 2015. During 2014 HINA averaged 126 employees, 150 users on the market and is about as much as HINA's emissions were taken over on the basis of a common subscription contract. A conference of the European Association of News Agencys was also held in Split and became a member of the Executive Board of the Association. During 2014, the union and the management of HINA started collective negotiations up to conclude a collective agreement concluded in 2015 and returned material rights to HINA employees. During 2014 HINA has moved from one classical agency to a multimedia agency that is by its transformation, just by investing in technological audio photo equipment, audio services and everything else. By carrying the project of that period, it was, of course, a website that was launched on 1 July 2014. The new portal introduced the practice of the public service concept in line with the recommendations of the Ministry of Culture, the Competition Protection Agency and the European State Aid Regulations, which include a summary of all news and a series of other contents open to the public. In addition, HINA's IT department has developed an integrated editorial system as a web application for processing text and multimedia content that has been in practice since the beginning of 2015 and is now investing in its development and maintenance. 2014 editorship comes out on social networks and such as YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, invests in new websites, video services, audio services, free portals. The number of exclusive news, thematic texts, interviews is increasing. The quality of news and perseverance in respect of the principle of agency reporting are balanced, i.e. as high-quality, professional, impartial and independent reporting as possible. In this way HINA adapted to the needs of the media market and stopped the reduction process of HINA's emissions users during 2014. During 2014, there were more than 175 000 audio and visual offices delivered to HINA's office. The positive business processes continued in 2015 when HINA gained a profit of HRK million 495 393 and then, in accordance with the law and the Statute of HINA, it is used to carry out and develop activities and represents an increase in capital. In 2015, HINA achieved 24 million 945 thousand 373 kuna from the sale of services and on the basis of a total subscription contract of 16 million 623 thousand and 999 kuna. The expenditure in 2015 was reduced by 2.14% again and they were lower in 2014. What matters is what happened in 2015. HINA paid off the entire credit commitment and thus saved 135 thousand kuna still has 125 employees, 150 market users and approximately as many of those who take HINA's emissions on the basis of the Agreement on a common subscription. In 2014, HINA successfully participated in a competition for the European Parliament's media partner and the contract was signed in 2015 and worth 58 000 euros. During 2015 HINA signed a contract with a large media house and the number of users grew slightly. It still invests in development projects, means the acquisition of photo equipment in IT, video equipment. As part of these investments, a new server has been purchased which serves as a data repositories for the new editorial system and web portals. A system was developed to distribute HINA's content to users... with the interface for administration and supervision of the system, the adaptation of the health portal for search and EU youth search. What is extremely important is that it... created this cooperation with the European Parliament and the supervisory authority gave high marks for the project itself, which allowed the signing of a further contract by 2019. In 2015, a hundred journalists, editors, photographers and other HINA employees delivered nearly 179 thousand audiovisual offices in Croatian and English, which is about three thousand more than a year ago. Two portals have also been launched, which is the EU youth and health of HINA.hr. In addition to all the news summary available... all HINA news and content on social networks in 2015, the general public through a special service... has provided news and photos from the South East European leaders' meetings, European basketball championships, European Games. In total, 343 news and 547 photos were made through.... Thanks to investments in equipment, laptops, smartphones, digital tape recorders and photo and video equipment in the new editorial system that independently developed a better organisation of work and professional access of employees, the way in which all the contents of HINA’s emissions are published has been accelerated. During 2016, positive business was also continued and HINA participated in the work of the European Association of News Agencys and, through the work of the Management Board, lobbyed for a better commitment to the status and legislative treatment of news agencies with the European Commission. 2016 HINA ended up with a profit of 882 thousand 359 kuna. During 2016 HINA made a total of 25.19 million kunas of income, and this amounted to 8.56 million kuna on the market. The expenditures were reduced by 1.36% compared to the planned ones, and HINA continued to have the same number of employees and the same number of correspondence. Development projects in 2016 in investment in technological development and the acquisition of information news photography and video equipment using their own funds as well as those withdrawn from European funds are soon the process of producing HINA's emissions. This puts 330 thousand kuna into equipment, of which about 40% of the funds are provided from the EU Youth Portal project. During 2016 there was consolidation of the IT system as a whole including redesign of all HINA web portals and their adaptation to work with applications and virtualisation of physical servers. HINA's editorship in 2016 continued with the development of long-term projects launched two years ago based on the editor's main programme of work, primarily the web site that experienced redesign, video and audio services and two portals with free content for the public. The number of exclusive news, thematic texts, interviews, reports, analysis and chronology has increased, and thanks to investments in equipment and editorial systems that have developed independently is an accelerated way of working. In 2016, a hundred journalists, editors, photographers and other editors delivered more than 215 thousand audiovisual offices in Croatian and English. The following figures are not included in the content published on social networks. In 2016, cooperation with the European Parliament was completed, but the editorial office decided to rename the HINA.eu portal and continue to publish news from the EU, in particular on decisions made by the European Commission and the European Parliament that have an impact on the lives of citizens in Croatia. This is a short report for 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73203	Thank you. We therefore continue with the report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014, 2015 and 2016. We have two replicas at the presentation of Ms. Maja Plescalt to the President of the Governing Council of HINA. The first replica is a colleague of the Petrijevčan Irena, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73204	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Presidents of the HINA Board Board, Mrs Plescalt, the Honored Representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Mrs Zvonarevic and Mr Partl. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here we heard your report although it is ungrateful to discuss for 3 years united and it is about 2014, 2015 and 2016, so we are in an awkward position but not our fault. But what I wanted to ask you. Since today is more dangerous than ever since the survival of HINA news agencies, it is to say a tiny, tiny player on the global market. Since the Internet has enabled every user to practically distribute its information and news, whether the administrative board has some strategic plan that thinks a year in advance given these circumstances in the sense that you have invested in the equipment of virtual servers, cameras etc., which is very commendable and commendable is the shift in business but at the same time there should be a development of applicative services for users that I have failed to read from this report, whether you are going in this direction of development and I would invite you then as an administrative board and president to pay particular attention to this segment in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73205	Thank you, Mrs. Petrieucan. The last replica of Mrs. Maja Plescalt's presentation is Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73206	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, when you spoke about HINA's positive business, you specifically referred to yourself at 2013. In fact, you forgot to say that the arrival of Kukuriku coalition fired 30 employees. It means from 167 to 130 employees. With the same amount you had in 2012. So by 2012, HINA had employed 167 employees and received 18 million kuna from the state budget, with only 10 million kuna coming in. Also, in your presentation, you referred to the HINA portal, i.e. health-related subportals, i.e. for young people and the EU. I must remind you that HINA is no port. Therefore, HINA is a public service paid by taxpayers and should be in the positions of one public, objective, one fast and credible service that must not be influenced by any political, economic or any other common. I also say that for the public, I say, I stress and support positive business, but we should talk about the facts that led to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73207	Thank you. We will now welcome the students of the elementary school "Venceslav Novak" from Zagreb, who joined us in the assembly. Give it up! Nice greeting to the students and teachers and teachers. Since there are no rapporteurs, and the Government's representative will also not give an additional explanation, I am opening the debate, thus uniting the report on the work of the Administrative Council of HINA for 2014, 2015 and 2016. First on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73208	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed, and the Assembly Committee on Information, Information and Media accepted at the session held on 28 February 2018 that the Croatian Assembly of the Annual Reports of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014 and 2015 be informed about the passage of time, and that the 2016 Management Council report be adopted. The period of time has already become a common phrase when discussing the annual reports of state and public institutions reporting to the Croatian Parliament, and when the Croatian Parliament is not discussing the reports in due time, but with a time-limit of sometimes more than 3-4 years. The reports of the Governing Council of HINA are divided into a description of the work of the editorial board, the Governing Council, the review of the sessions and the review of the financial situation which actually dominates the overall report. The work description of the editorship is about the structure of HINA, investment, major problems and planned activities. The work reports are scarce, summed up, repetitive phrases, and there is obviously very little time and attention in the quality of the content presented in the report itself. For example, it is said that there has been an increase in the number of exclusive news, thematic texts, intrajua, reporting, analysis and chronology, without giving detailed information, particularly numerical, and analytical information. HINA is financed from two sources: from market users who buy its information, an average of 150 market users, for about 8.5 million kuna per year and approximately as much of HINA's information is taken over by a joint contract with the Republic of Croatia for about 16.5 million kuna. The incomes of HINA over the past years have dropped - from €39.2 million in 2008 when the share of income from users of services was 44.84%, amounting to €17.6 million, and 55.16% of the revenues from the contract with the Republic of Croatia, i.e. €21.6 million, up to 2016 when the revenues from the customer of services amounted to €8.5 million, i.e. 34.45% and 16.3 million from the contract with the Republic of Croatia, which is 65.55%, which increased the share of the total state funding of this service. For the period 2016-2016, the HINA averaged 126 employees, as well as 2014. The first year after the restructuring, while 2015 averaged 125 employees. Before restructuring, the number of employees was over 150. As employees fall, employee expenditure has been reduced, but income has also been reduced. It is pointed out that the basic feature of the 2016 report is the continuation of the positive business of the agency, i.e. the surplus expenditure of the third year in a row, after a successful restructuring was successfully carried out in 2013 in HINA, preceding the accumulation of losses of €9.8 million, i.e. around 2 million, on average annually. The 2014 report does not provide details of the cause of these losses, as well as analysis of failed media monitoring and digitisation of Vjesnik archives. Annual HINA publishes about 74 thousand titles, on average 203 per day, and has a large photo base, annually about 138 thousand, and has increased the audio and video fund. Annually, about 10% of titles are translated into English, due to the importance of the international position of the Republic of Croatia and the achievement of foreign-political objectives. As positive examples of work, HINA HR health projects and the processing of EU topics are highlighted, e.g. The EU of Youth, and HINA's exit to social networks, platforms, means Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, there have been minor developments in the expansion of development, correspondence networks, because it is one of the biggest advantages that agencies have in relation to other media, and in Croatia it is even more pronounced because domestic media is cornered. They shut down their correspondence. HINA in Croatia in 2016 in 6 counties has permanent correspondence with 9 employees, in 2014 it was 6 employees, in Istria 1, in Primorje Goranska 2, in Split Dalmatian 3, in Osijek Baranja 1, in Karlovac and in Vukovar Srijemsko 1, and in permanent correspondence in Brussels, Ljubljana and Sarajevo. Several court proceedings are being conducted against HINA, according to former workers' claims concerning the restructuring and disposal of excess workers from 2013 since court proceedings can objectively result in obligations of HINA for gross salary compensation and compensation for tight interest payments, a reservation has been made for potential losses at the start of the court disputes of 1.6 million kuna, and part of the disputes has been settled. It has been observed that it is poorly invested in the education of HINA employees, from 2014-2016 around 25000 kn was spent, which is insufficient investment in the entire education of this agency. The 2016 report notes that the Governing Council held 5 sessions in 2016, which discussed and adopted quarterly financial reports, adopted a financial plan and investment plan. As no new members of the Governing Council have been appointed by the end of their term of office, members of 5 convened the Governing Council, decided on their action after the end of the term of office, as well as the decision to extend the mandate of the current director of HINA to the VD until the election of the new director of HINA. It is unclear how the administrative council regulation could rule on its operation after the end of the term of office, which must be demonstrated by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia. The role of HINA in media descriptor should be explored more closely, because as the report points out, I quote, but by strengthening influence, HINA's responsibility as a public service, which must rise up to the principles of independent, impartial and professional agency journalism at the time of the ever-extradation and tabulation of the media scene. In addition, HINA as a public medium should also play an educational role in society, as well as the role of Croatian promoters in the world. It's a finished quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73209	Thank you for the presentation of our colleague Nikola Grumoje, we have three replicas. The first is the replica of counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Grmoy, my replica is actually going, and that's what I'm going to look into in the debate on behalf of the club, actually in the direction of this time of the famous. I think the flow of time, it really can't be an excuse for anything, I mean, so we're going to do the difference now, one thing we're going to learn, because there's, like, you know, it's past time, so we're just going to take it into consideration. I mean, if there's a report now, if we see that there's one continuity, a positive trend, I don't think that the passage of time, is an adequate argument, that in fact, effectively, we say, I mean, we effectively share a pack to HINA ourselves, because that, I mean, we don't share a pack to ourselves, and we should, not because in Parliament, it's not discussed. But, taking in knowledge, is such a, a little more subtle rejection, no, I think we can agree on that, so I think, that this passing of time, not only in this case, but also in many others, should not be an excuse for anything, but in fact it is a way, that in one nice or less fine way, somehow this, usually in this position, is a guilt, for something is not done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73211	Answer, there you go, comrade Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73212	Well, what the intentions of such decisions are, I wouldn't go into it, but the fact is that we are late with many reports, the fact is that some changes to the Rules of Procedure, which have been announced, will not speed up the debate of these points, we can, as the chairman called a session for Tuesday, because everything about the debate with the Rules of Procedure has gone astray, and what they are responsible for, because they put this debate at 11.30 so we can decide that the Parliament is meeting for several days. Well, anyway, the public themselves resented that parliamentary break, which we had, and which, in practice, neither you nor I had decided, and if we had been asked, probably as an opposition, they would have wanted the Parliament to have taken hold of it in those days, because then we are more in the public's focus. We can open up certain topics. So you should definitely do more work, more work days, then discuss all these reports in time, and not just take note, because I am in no way inclined to just take notice of certain things. Well, anyway, we had this conflict and about the CNB report where we insisted, not only that it is being taken into account, but that the Croatian Parliament, which also chooses the governor, can say something about this report to the CNB, just as you should say about all the reports that come here before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73213	Next is colleague Hrvoje Runtic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73214	Thank you. A fellow Thunderbolt, based on what I've heard and read, I'll say maybe a little more general. It seems to me that the media scene has been changing for a long time, and when the media is compared today and 5, 10 or 20 years ago, it means thanks to new technologies, the content is consumed in a different way. And I believe that this media scene will continue to transform that way, which is nothing strange. Let's say that transformation has passed the already creative industries, like the film industry, the music industry, etc. It's all gone somehow in the digital direction. I believe that it is to be expected that the number of correspondence, which has been discussed, will be reduced and that the media scene will generally be unrecognizable in the next 5-10 years compared to what is today because news will be consumed as it is today but will be distributed primarily through social networks, which will probably lead to a huge increase in the face of news, we already have this today, especially in some countries, let's say in the United States that if the media scene is compared to this who we are, it is unrecognizable. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73215	Answer, there you go, comrade Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73216	Well, fellow Runtic, that's exactly where my exposure went, and there's the value of HINA as a public agency to follow something that's not interesting maybe to other portals that prefer a different form of news, and we all recognize the value of HINA and we want it to go in that direction and to develop and invest practically from the state budget. But of course, it will also need to find a way to respond to these challenges that this change, or transformation of the media scene, brings. And I think it's a challenge and a board of directors and all those who work in HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73217	Thank you. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73218	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. While we were in a political marriage, you know that certain things happened where some reports couldn't be put on the agenda, but that's less important. In your debate, you talked about some things that you only touched edgely like that and are actually the main tasks of HINA, which is the opening of a representative office in the world's metropolis. We are true, we have mentioned this in Brussels, we have one in Madrid that reports only the Real or Barcelona football games, but we don't even have representations in the Republic of Croatia, we don't have, say, in Slavonski Brod, we don't have in Zadar and Sibenik and in fact from these cities and we only report when there are certain incident situations or when some politicians once wanted that information to be transmitted. What's ugly, which is tragic, and what's inadmissible for HINA is that it transmits information from other media and is actually the role of it producing such information and that the media rely on HINA, that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73219	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73220	There I absolutely agree that HINA should be the one that creates content, of course it would be desirable that this content comes from lower levels, what these large or mainstream media will not follow and which they do not find interesting, and the movements are in life of some local community or important events, so that they should definitely go in that direction. And when you talk about these dark times, the truth, we've had dark times, but we now have a situation that media is well controlled by those who either have power or have money. So that's what's not good at all. And I think that exactly the public agency should be immune to this and rely on objective reporting not on fake news as my colleague Runtic says, but the fact is that today we can read through the media also certain moves of the policy intentions of the ruling or those who have money to push some initiatives, projects or similar things. This is what we all need to resist, and what I also demanded in the talks with the Minister of Culture, in the case of HINA and in the case of HRT, that it be not a channel for the placement of the thesis created in the Ban Courts, in the Government or in the Office of the President, but rather an objective service that serves citizens objective, true information. So I see the role of public media in Croatia, and unfortunately that is not the case, we can see it every night. Here I will share with you one fact, since MOST is in opposition, I have never once been invited as a representative of the third party in the power of the opposition in the Croatian Assembly Studio 4 HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73221	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73222	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected Presidents of the Board of Directors and representatives of the Ministry of Culture. I must point out immediately that in addition to being a half-empty assembly and this debate opens up an ungrateful position for the MPs that in March 2018 we are now discussing reports for 2014, 2015 and 2016, then it is partly unprofessional of us, although we are not actually objectively responsible because we know what it was like, and there is no need for us to repeat the general known political events that led to the delay not only of Parliament's work but also of some other institutions and procedures. Now the theme is HINA and it is not to silence that the last few years HINA has been on several occasions and itself subject to news even though the primary job is the distribution of news. Simply put, the taste of the 2014, 2015 and 2016 reports is on the one hand a financial consolidation, we have seen positive business, credit closure, which is certainly commendable, but on the other hand objectively speaking, it should be said that in certain specific areas there is room for completion. A colleague of the Grmoi who has now left said that it is unclear on what criteria the Administrative Council has extended its mandate to the director, it is not unclear on what criteria it is. This was one specific situation when the new Administrative Council of HINA was not appointed before the end of the current mandate, so the Administrative Council not only then but on two occasions acted according to the interpretation of the HINA statutes, that Article 13 but also according to two laws then signed by Jadranko Crnic as constitutional judge. For what reason? So precisely for reasons to prevent a vague legal situation or a vacuum in a business where the Parliament did not appoint new members, and we know why it could not appoint and the current term of office has expired. And so it was the first time in 2012, the second time in 2016, each time for a particular reason. It was, of course, as I said in line with the interpretation of statutes and laws, and then the principal, who is now also appointed for a year because it was provided by the Law on Institutions. There has been some speculation that the debate on HINA reports in the Assembly has not come for certain reasons that are political. That's really not true, it has nothing to do with objectivity at all because when we talk about the HINA reports, there has to be a question of what's sensitive about it. If we stick to the subject and these are reports of the Governing Council of HINA, the board of directors, then there is absolutely nothing sensitive. However, if we talk about what I mentioned, about the news where HINA has been the subject in the last few years, then another debate is being opened, or another subject that is not the subject of this debate. But it's not even a problem for me because you can see where we are and what we are very quickly. And to go back to business reports now, what we can notice are oscillations between these reports. In other words between the years, so we see the shifts in business for the better, we see the repayment of credit, we see the closure of 2016 in plus, which is positive, which is good. If we talk about reports submitted by the Board of Directors, then it can only be said that this is one standard financial report on business. And to put it that way, there aren't any critical points. What can be seen and some have noticed that in 2014 a little more than 195 thousand kuna were paid for 4 members, which turns out to be 2000 kuna per month and on average have 5 sessions per year. Also in 2015, in the name of the compensation for members of the Governing Council, around 233,000 890 kuna went the same for 5 sessions a year, it is similar in 2016. So it actually turns out that it doesn't matter if they have a session 5 times or 25 times a year because they get a monthly fee anyway. What has also been the subject of some discussions over the past 3 years and more that HINA has been found several times as a subject discussed in the context of unprofessional monitoring of news. We had a situation that on one side of one news society called HINA's leadership for mention while other journalists' associations praised the same leadership of HINA for positive work, for positive shifts in business, for respecting collective agreements, etc. And at the very least, many who were not guided found themselves in a dilemma. One portal says it's HINA, and the other portal says it's HINA and it's the diametric opposite. And now whoever read it found himself in wonder, at least he wondered what the facts were, which is the truth in that whole story. Although it is not up to me to judge now, because this is neither a courtroom nor I would allow myself to do so although I have my own personal opinion about it but as regards HINA, what is indisputable and what should be pointed out, and we all know that HINA is owned by the Republic of Croatia, that it is a public institution law, that it must act as an independent, impartial and professional, professional news report must be kept by principles not only ethically but also by any other and HINA should neither come nor come under any other interest policy or any other world-famous control, and that must be aware of all actors in HINA and I believe that they are. Hypothetically, there may be a situation where a journalist professionally does his job which will say he makes objective news but, for example, Hypothetically higher instance has the need to correct the news. I didn't discover hot water now, which is what Hollywood production made movies and movies about. But what am I saying? What I'm trying to say is that it violates the integrity of this subject and that media if it happens. And I don't need to touch on behalf of the club, but we've witnessed various events, and that's why this needs to be stressed. So you need to repeat from this pay phone no matter how late we are with the report as a competent body that anyone who works for the media needs other than objectivity and professional reporting to stick to the Ethics Code of Journalists. And actually to recap these reports are standard, but it could be more detailed in terms of not only statistical data because we have enough of them than if there were fewer copy traps, that there were more of those logical things. But since we're discussing them with a three-year delay, then there's no point in getting into more detail now and more detail into the analysis. The president of the HINA Management Council highlighted positive developments in business and improving the efficiency of this news service, I can confirm this on behalf of the HDZ Club, should continue to do so. And I want you to continue in that direction that is good and at the same time try to understand everything in HINA that prevents you from becoming an impartial and independent journalist service if there is one. First of all, you need to be effective in terms of today's modern age as I pointed out just before in the replica because today you are all aware of the old news what was two hours ago and it imposes terrible challenges and demands that must be followed or simply no survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73223	Thank you. Two replicas, first mate Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. Although I appreciate a few of the truly noble thoughts you've made in your presentation, I have several objections. When you call for only reports to be discussed in these discussions, or those things that are in the reports, I must warn you that this is not possible. I mean, the reports we're reading here aren't poetic texts, so they're not poetry or prose to represent some kind of poetic universe that's closed and should then be interpreted as an independent phenomenon. So when we read these reports, we can't think and discuss why they are exactly the way they are, not the other way around. So in that sense, it would be nice to be able to deal with only them, but since we're all particularly aware of the situation of culture as it has been for the past few years and we can agree that on several occasions it was not good. With perhaps marginally positive trends no longer good than it was good, so I think that in these discussions, we must also touch this context of the political one that conditioned these reports to be like this. And yes, I think it would be better for me to conclude this, let's say, it would be better if in these discussions we were less concerned and I didn't say that you were doing it, but actually by subtly assigning blame to each other why something like that didn't work out, and maybe more we tried to be objective about how the mistakes were on different sides, some of us could have influenced, but what if we were already discussing three years later at least that distance served as some distance that allows us objectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73225	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73226	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Glavasevic. I didn't think it was necessary to discuss it, so I also mentioned the context of the report and the context of the social events around HINA that led to the impartiality of certain actors not only in HINA but in the media space. I, you know this well, I really appreciate the journalistic profession, and I honestly think they're very underpaid, that they don't have how it bothers the world or Friday. Besides public media, as far as I know in HINA and HRT, they don't even have a collective contract, you know as well, they often end up on the road after years and years of professional work, and on the other hand they replace them with students, fees, etc. And I do have normal approaches to both the media and the press, but sometimes I ask myself, and now I'm going to tell you an example of how normal it is on the other hand if I have access to them as much as they don't personally to me because I have no objections but generally world-wide. Here's an example. I've been walking through the hallway recently, sitting a journalist in a chair, I say first good day both as a woman and as a parliamentary representative, which is irrelevant, the journalist doesn't answer at all. A little later that day, a colleague from your SDP party passes by with about a meter and a half, the same journalist first shouts good day, even with a light bow. How can I expect the bias of this journalist if his behavior shows this level of unprofessionalism? I'm not saying that this journalist is not unprofessional, but I can no longer expect some objectivity from that journalist because he simply cannot be objective on the basis of not only this detail but also some other details. So there are certain prejudices here and certain world-classes towards me as representatives of the HDZ, and that should by no means be what is tolerated from journalists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73227	Thank you. Comrade Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73228	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. You're very actually speaking in your statement about the HINA institution very correctly and I would say with very mild criticism or a mild statement of those criticisms, but whoever wanted to hear it could, in fact, be very serious criticisms that you were talking about. And you said that when it comes to the HINA reports, then there are no bigger problems, referring to financial reports, but there is one thing about the Ethics Code of Journalists that you said or the Code of Honor of Croatian Journalists. So when he looks at fundamental human rights or under 13 it is said that journalists respect, protect and promote fundamental human rights, freedoms, in particular, the principle of equality of all citizens. However, even before and recently, we have had cases, especially now the director of HINA, who through social networks deals with individuals, groups or associations, and here in a special way promotes his worldview, which is not good because HINA is an institution or what it should be. I'm glad you mentioned it, that you noticed it, maybe you didn't particularly emphasize it, but here I am stressing it out especially now, and I think it's a journalist, especially the director of HINA, who can't do it in any way. Given the lack of time, I'm not going to talk about those things you said about HINA, you've dealt with other journalists, journals and portals, which is not to praise HINA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73229	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73230	Dear colleague Babic. Here's what I said in the previous line about HINA's business there are facts that talk about stabilising business and they are commendable. On the other hand, there is also this segment that certain media have dealt with HINA in one way or another that does not impute any responsibility to anyone. However, when we talk about social media announcements and in general about the conduct of journalists, then we should certainly take care of the code of ethics and not only the code of ethics but also the messages sent on these social networks. So, the journalist, editor, board member, board president, director of some media house, and by all means, he can turn to his posts to say so, the public in the wrong direction if he doesn't care that these posts are professional and impartial and objective enough. In politics, shootings are allowed through social networks, so because there is always the opposite side in politics, but we have to ask the question of what is the opposite in the media? There's no other side to the media. How can you fool someone if someone does, and we don't call anyone here, so you're not a politician. You're a media employee, you have to stick to the code of ethics, you have to be impartial, you have to be objective, and if you send the opposite instructions from that, then we all have to ask ourselves in public space if you're impartial. Anyone to talk about, any television, public house, portal, etc. And there must be no difference between what you do and what you say. That's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73231	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next debate is on behalf of GLAS Club and HSU, colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73232	Vice-President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The GLAS and HSU club supports these reports, and we must say that with great interest we have been waiting for reports from the administrative council to arrive just for this year, 2015 and 2016 because we, who we remember for a little while, know that from 2009 to 2013, HINA was the case. It was a rare house scandal in itself and I will only remind myself that at the time HINA was brought literally to the brink of destruction and the question was whether at all it would be possible to survive, whether the state as its founder and owner saw at all the future of the national news agency, whether it was possible in those circumstances, and I recall, it was a huge debt, about failed business moves and projects, about credit debt, about extremely bad interpersonal relations, about the situation that the Assembly Committee on Information and Parliament was sent almost on a monthly basis which anonymously, which signed performances, complaints, forces and forces. Here in this House, and particularly in the board of directors, there have been long-standing debates, which unfortunately have been burdened by politics. First of all, out of ignorance and inability to influence what was happening in that newspaper house until one form of consensus was reached, and until the Ministry of Culture set itself in this whole story quite decisively and constructively to stop some projects, to resolve the issue that was burdened by HINA for some time, and that is the digitisation of Vjesnik's building and that is in the synergy of HINA, the Ministry of Culture and Government, on the other hand of the Croatian State Archives, and that is the issue solved. And it was extremely important to open up the possibility of internal capacities and energy that it has therefore and the resources owned by HINA, to see in the years to come whether HINA is capable of survival, above all on the market, and on the other hand whether it is able to respond to its basic mission, which is that as a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia, it is one part of the task in achieving our national identity and stability of the information system. This took a lot of steps, above all in the stabilization of business and more than to welcome that three years in a row the trend in the business itself is going extremely positive, that they managed to recover credit debts before the time. On the other hand, that the losses have been reduced and that they have actually grown to profit, that when you recalculate how much HINA annually pays VAT that actually the cost of the state has fallen to below 15 million kuna per year. And that trend is showing that this cost is increasing. Also, what is very important is that journalists in HINA have achieved a higher level of autonomy compared to management, meaning that business policy, on the one hand, does not interfere with editorial policy as was the case before and that the impact of the profession would be said because it is the core business of HINA to be crucial. This is seen from a whole series of details in these reports but it is also seen in the progress made both in the number of publications and in quality and in the growth of those that are key business partners of HINA, which are users of their information service because in these three years as we see it, it has managed to modernise business, inform the entire range of functional HINA, start new information portals, increase the number of large subscribers and, of course, income from that title. What is important, and journalists are also allowed to work in better technical conditions because they are more technologically equipped than before and what is great is that in the era of general dispersion in the information system itself because we do not forget only journalists in the past few years when we talk about this profession, there are over 800 jobs left. So this is the time when a whole series of media was shut down, it's the time in which the media had abolished their correspondence and associates on the ground, it's the time when the base from which the information was drawn was significantly weakened by human beings. In that time, therefore, HINA manages to do exactly the opposite. So, to expand the network of your co-workers, journalists, fees, correspondence and what is actually great to see that big media that still have their own infrastructure relying heavily on HINA services and that very extensive reports from social events, news that HINA is placing, and we heard how much this is on a daily basis. It's a really huge number. So that they use full-blood and that on large portals and in printed media, as well as on HINA's television content, so what HINA delivered makes a very important part of their media service in general. These are good things because we have preserved a system that needs the Republic of Croatia and because of its political influence and because of the better information of citizens, but also because of what we have been stressing for years, which is the preservation of national identity because service in all segments that are not daily policy is also very important. It's not just about sports. It's about culture, it's about education, it's about those segments where other media have no commercial interest, and they deserve more than that, of course, than they deserve, that information and content can reach as many people as possible. I agree with colleagues who have underlined that it would be good for HINA to have more publications translated into other languages. However, in this sea of media product HINA is broadcasting and 10% is a very respectable figure. Take only on a daily or weekly basis as much as this and in this sense, given the fact that HINA has preserved its capacity and has actually maintained very high operating standards by fulfilling the owner’s order. Now, in that, I repeat, the GLAS and HSU club supports these reports and thanks for such an extensive number of data. Of course, we're not happy that the reports are back in 2014, but this is how we got a complete picture for a three-year period. In the coming years, we hope that this reporting rhythm will be better, i.e. that the Croatian Parliament will be able to hold all reports that HINA delivers in time because it is not a problem for HINA, this one, on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73233	Thank you. It's three replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73234	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Beus, I'm actually glad that you pointed out this, that you explained this context which my colleague Babic had touched, is now missing, in one of his replicas when he talked about how many people lost their jobs. I mean, it doesn't matter. It's easy today, when the crisis went on and on and on, like, you know, the Kukuriku Government, for their governments, 30 people went away. I mean, let's remember what the crisis was like. Let's remember how well it is and you've explained just as well what state HINA was in, anyway, at those moments. So I think, too, on the basis of the debate of counterpart Petrijevcanin Vukasanovic. That's why it's important that we not manipulate these things but accept them objectively. Of course it's relatively simple to say today: and you know, it happened during your government, but it's very important to say why something happened because without it it turns out to be Fake news, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73235	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73236	Kola Glavasevic, in the restructuring and resolution of the problems encountered, only four criteria are important to which the owner insists. It is a reduction in costs, an increase in income, a reduction in the number of employees and a disbursement of potential credit debts. So, generally taking it, it's wanted by a business entity, and whatever HINA is a public institution, it is a business entity, therefore, to be reduced to rational frameworks. Let's not forget, these requirements are highly set at the moment of the major economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia when the HINA rightly respected a large number of employees and, on the other hand, they are not productivity. If we pull the parallel, say with the situation on HRT, don't forget that all the political parties in the Croatian Parliament at the time when we talked about restructuring programmes insisted that the number of employees was constantly falling, there were thousands and then there was no question whether a reduction by 20 or 30% would affect quality because we all had a consensual position that the quality of what HRT produced was not enough in relation to the number of employees. Today, when we have an example and a case in which a business operator of the Republic of Croatia, the founder of the Republic of Croatia, has asked that, through restructuring, reduce the high labour costs, when it has been successfully implemented, we can now calculate whether we prefer Pero or Marko. Whether we knew Mark or Peru or Anica or Marica personally or not. Of course, many of these people knew each other because we meet them in public work. Not just in the halls, but in my day-to-day work. And it's never easy for you when someone you know says he's out of a job. But I repeat, more than 800 journalists in the Republic of Croatia have lost their jobs over the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73237	Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73238	Your Honor. My colleague Beus, along with all the praises you gave HINA and I'll be free and I'll say two things that aren't very positive. At the time of the Perkovic case, Mustac, HINA did not inform the citizens in due time, of all the facts that followed the case, unlike others, who provided this information to the public in due time. Furthermore, a fresh example, it is about the family association, we understand your attention and the fact that HINA as a public institution in 2 weeks on about 300 of its users placed 2 false news on behalf of the family. The Dom Association filed a criminal application against the association On behalf of the family and Željka Markić and a scientific analysis that enabled the political success of the Belgian political movement in Croatia, which was also reported by the Association by the Administrative Council of HINA. Often because of the wrong editorial policy, information, which is not true, comes public and can be interpreted in a wrong way, especially when you talk about journalists who lost their jobs, I can't help but remember Helena Krmpotić, who worked on HRT4 who got fired, and her father was a protected witness in the Perković Mustac case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73239	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73240	When it comes to reporting with Perkovic and Mustac, it is one of the media attractive events, which I think is best covered, when it comes to national media in the Republic of Croatia, because we have a daily report and all national televisions have worked very hard to have both pictures and tones. In that sense, to say that the national agency has become under-involved, it's a little funny, because the strongest and most important users were right there, but she didn't sneeze there. And as for the family association, which I call the Association of Thieves and liars of those who are very corrupt. And I'll tell you why. They're the last ones to say anything on this subject, because this association has announced through its portal that my biologically deceased father was a suspect in war crimes. They didn't ask me before, they didn't publish the denials. They didn't ask me for two months. So, the Association of Thieves and Liars will end up in court, precisely because she's the one who, through her own reputation, is the one who's been making up fiction, spins and plantings and... I'll see you in court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73241	Comrade Culey, please. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Petrijevcanin Vukasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73242	Thank you, well-respected President, dear colleague Beus, very much commended you on the INA, the autonomy of journalists is improving business stabilisation, modernisation, etc. But the question is, how can HINA do that, who made it possible for HINA. This HDZ government has shown what is unfortunately not many of the previous ones, which is that it has not reduced personnel by coming to power and the people who were placed during the former government, have been left behind, which has never happened before. As far as I know, that wasn't the case before, and I'd say that this government, actually on the example of HINA and on some other examples, has shown that it can be better and that it can be more professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73243	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73244	Dear colleagues, I would be very happy to confirm that what you have just said is true, but I will not engage in further controversy, namely, it is very important for me, that every government, regardless of which party or coalition in it is responsible for the resources that are manageable. So are the public institutions in which he represents the founder. In this particular case, I have already said this, I commend the efforts of the ministry responsible for not caring for those who wanted chaos, who wanted to actually cause additional problems, new management difficulties. There have been such pressures on various sides, some unfortunately bear fruit in some parts of the public sector, but here it was clearly estimated, that it is very smart and important, to listen to what people who work there actually want. And that they should not be forced to break their spines, imposing other political views because it works. Because as you can see, the government of the Republic of Croatia is pleased with the situation in HINA. So if we're satisfied with the opposition too, where will you get better news? So we've escaped one topic from the day-to-day political bickering and HINA's not burdened with politics, as it's been burdened before. And... And still. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73245	Thank you. We are now moving on to the next individual debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73246	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Representatives Club is certainly planning to support all these reports. A good part of what we'd like to say here on behalf of the club is actually some of the things we've touched in previous discussions. I'd start with this problem, getting the first two reports to know about the flow of time. If we've already said, and I really do need it, in this place again, that I think that if we should share a pack in this way, so, by saying, we're taking notice, instead of actually accepting the report, we should give it to ourselves. That's how it is. I mean, we can understand that there have been some really objective circumstances, which are why these reports have been delayed, and we can also agree that you know that in this house, most of you have played some kind of executive role and in representative, you know what the dynamics of working in the executive government are like here, you know that sometimes things just don't get there. However, I think that especially if we have seen that the trend is positive, if we have all pointed out in the discussions that the reports are actually good and there is no reason to effectively repeat it, we are giving HINAs. It would be good if we could share it with ourselves, but, well, we all know what the circumstances were, but maybe something else is said about it. I'd like another thing I'd like to point out here is again about translations. The Croatian language, estimated, has some 5.6 million speakers whose first language it is. So we're talking about Croats in the Republic of Croatia, or Croatian speakers in the Republic of Croatia, in the BiH and in the emigration. 5.6 million. If we add to it persons, say the Croatian second language to which they rule well enough, so that they speak it and what in the wider region in the world, we get a number of 21 million speakers. So 21 million people understand Croatian and are able to read it, etc. That's 0.28% of the world's population. I'll give you one comparison. According to the 2017 ethnologist, the language with the most speakers is Mandarin-Chinese, which has 1.15 billion speakers. The second is English, which is at 1.06. Of which, just so you understand relationships, Chinese has 960 million speakers whose first language is 193 million to whom the second is, and for English, the figure is different. 400 million who are first language and 660 million who are second. So there are more speakers to whom there are others. So there are more speakers who have a second language than those who first. Why am I telling you this? Because if we make what happens in this country only 21 million people potentially available, we haven't done a very good job of explaining to the world what's going on in this tiny piece of the globe. There is news in English, but especially in the EU in which we belong, in which we have chosen in the referendum, is of immense importance, indeed immense importance that we make the events in our country available to all those who are part of this community. So I don't think there should just be news in one foreign language, like English, but why not on the other? Some others. It may also be German, it may be French, but I think that this job in the EU today could only be done by a house like HINA. You can't expect private media to do that. Their mission, after all, is not to represent this country. We've pointed out many times that it's part of HINA's mission. And that is why I would really like to underline on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club that there should be much more news in foreign languages. There should also be more news and more content on the EU. We often talk about how European themes are far away from our citizens. As citizens, we also speak in politics about how the EU should be there for citizens. But if we do not educate citizens about the EU, if through developments in the EU and news from other Member States, which we do not make available from European policy, in fact, that responsibility for the Union's far-reaching citizens falling on us and on our shoulders. It's something that we can sort of order to the people of HINA sitting here as a recommendation. Of course we can't influence how they're going to work, nor should we, but this is something that we can point out, since it is still a state agency and they are towards our representatives outside. And then the question is, I'm going to get a little away from these more general issues, and I'm going to get caught up with something concrete. Education of employees is mentioned. Therefore, the amounts invested in the education of HINA employees are absolutely inadequate and unacceptable. So, with the understanding of the circumstances that may have led to this, we really want to encourage HINA to invest more in its employees. All of this I said earlier won't be possible unless you invest in people who should have the task. Of course, that’s how these people are engaged. In her debate, counterpart Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic mentioned that there is no collective agreement. Some security you should give these people, and if you have right in HINA or let's say it's just as big, if not a bigger problem on HRT, if you have such a widespread phenomenon... Work, I think that effectively means that the state is behind it, and I don't think it's a good message, and I don't think you're going to get people who should be doing all these noble tasks that I talked about before, and even before I do, my predecessors and predecessors will be something that I don't think will be convincing on paper, let alone in practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd go back for a moment at what I said earlier, and that's about new media. In a scientific paper I recently read, I ran into data that on one of the biggest Croatian media when they watched how many visits there were on their website from someone typing their address into the browser and coming to their site and how many visits there were by someone from a social network clicking on a link to come to their site that first happened that over 60% of the visits were from social networks. This tells you that people will no longer go to watch the news of everyone on your site but that they will go to social networks to inform themselves. That's and I'm going to say more about it in my individual debate because I think it's worth saying, and maybe on behalf of the club there's no room for it, but I think there are very, very serious implications. So HINA has profiles on social networks, but I have to argue that the way to approach these profiles I think is not in line with some kind of, let's say, I think it can be much better and that it can be done in such a way as to increase the reach of these publications on social networks and to make maximum use of what these profiles are and serve. I think that's very important. I think that's something to be studioed into. Today there are people who are professionals, who are educated among other things for social networks and for working on social networks, and I think that such people would make sense to engage. It's also connected and we've actually touched on it and I'm going to close this debate a little bit, there's a question of professionalism, arbitration of professionalism and somehow a question of how much space there is for individual freedom of expression, let's just say if you're a person who participates in the work of HINA and other media or state agencies. A colleague from HDZ has been distracted here by the emphasis of the worldview, it is a colleague of Babic from the director of HINA, but I would always prefer to know the values of the person who works because this means that the person behind those values stands and is guided by values rather than by interest. And that's at the end of the day, you can't take state policy into personal interests, you have to run it with values of some kind because values and professionalism aren't really connected and they shouldn't be connected. And the politicians here, we're not invited here to be arbitrationists of journalistic professionalism, we can't be, we don't need to be. I can understand that a colleague of Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic that she came to a conclusion about someone from the profession on the basis of observed behaviour, however I must warn that it is a little... /The speaker speaks in a foreign language./... so you came to the conclusion that you could not necessarily be derived from your set of premises, it may have occurred in some other way, but ok on the side of that. So I think the real solution to this problem lies about professionality, the connection of professionality and value in this. Someone's professionalism shouldn't be less professional in its performance and approach because it has some value. There are many examples in the world where you have people, journalists and journalists behind their values, but they are perfectly professional and independent of who they are and their values will not affect their will and desire to inform the public. Because it's not a question, I'd say it's not just a question that you're going to report on things that agree with your values, so that's a question of being able to talk to someone who might be a different orientation. So the solution to this is that we are strengthening journalists' associations, or strengthening this one mechanism of actuulation, if we as politicians can't be adversaries of their professionalism, they have to be alone, and we need to encourage the profession to be strong enough, to be independent enough of politics to be possible. Once we've done that by modeling some other countries where that's the case, I think we'll have a much healthier society. Because also colleague Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic touched on behalf of the club in her debate, the existence of a number of journalists' associations. I mean, if we're honest with each other, I think it's clear that some associations are more professional than others. This is unfortunately by creating doubts about it and by political manipulation we have come to the conclusion that citizens really don't know who is professional anymore, and who doesn't, which brings us to this, and I will really end it, that until we achieve it, until we strengthen the profession itself, journalists and journalists themselves enough and create institutional support for full free action, we are doomed to find a way together to strengthen their profession and create that sense of security because without free media and freedom of speech, there is no democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73247	Thank you, too. Before moving to a single replica, I would like to welcome the students of the elementary school of Venceslav Novak from Zagreb. Welcome! Now, I would like to ask my colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic, for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73248	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Glavasevic, I must now report for the replica when you mentioned me three times. As for your exposure, I agree with what you're warning, the need to adapt HINA to this global market. Once the information was so little that it was hard to reach them, it was a real challenge, and now the information is so much that it's a real challenge to tell what's true and what's a lie and it's actually a space for HINA and for all the news agencies that they're actually working opposite these other people who place some kind of world-class and some colored information that's not entirely objective. And as for this second part of the debate, recently, one of the colleagues here literally ran the assembly and offered HDZ his vote for anything, provided that one editor on HRT, editor on Sunday at 2:00, right? And he literally offered his vote. I sat there, I thought what would happen if these came to power, would that be media freedom? No, that would be the introduction of dictatorship and censorship, so much for that. HDZ, this government at least, has never done anything that would go against the freedom of the media that we see and, for example, HINA in relation to other former authorities and what would happen if someone else came to power, I don't mean specifically to power, but to others, I would specifically light a candle of freedom and objectivity of the media because we saw it from the attached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73249	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73250	Thank you, Mr. President. So, yeah, this first part you were talking about... The information and difficulty of resolution is something that can be called an Orvellian paradox, no. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem, and that's exactly the way it is. It is the role of institutions like HINA to have a kind of certificate of reliability, I would say. I have to admit, I didn't know about this case of a fellow who was running, but to him or her, I suppose he's going to be embarrassed. Yeah, responsible policy never tries to edit the media. On the other hand, I have to admit that I don't like to think about these sbb kbb scenarios, which Flight 3 would say, which would be if it were, but it's very important, I think, first of all, that we're mutually and even more than that towards the citizens to make it clear that in the country's current leadership towards the media and the freedom of the media, really no one has any clean hands, I think in some ways, in some ways, that in some ways, the candle burning as popular as it is a motive lately, I don't know, I still think that as long as we're here, we're really trying to do something good, I think maybe we won't still light the candles, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73251	Let's move on, not now, dear colleague Miro Bulj, but he's gone and he's losing his right to speak, so after him, he's a respected colleague of Sanja Putica, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73252	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed President of the Administrative Council and State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, we have three HINA reports, she would say only at the beginning and intro and about the debate so far that I am glad that we have such a majority of 78 hands and we are quite enough to be stable as you can see. HINA's basic activity is the collection of factual and objective news-agency information and its general service news HINA is obliged to place on the disposal of all subscribers in the Republic of Croatia under equal conditions. That's what it says in the existing HINA Act and what we can read from these united reports. The 2008 HINA Act, of course, needs to be done, that it needs to be improved and as I hear from the Ministry of Culture, will be in the legal acts of the Ministry of Culture in 2019, I certainly welcome it because, as we have heard here today, we see that we need to change the HINA Act. According to this law HINA is obliged to report to the Parliament every year, today we are able to discuss three reports, we do not have it for 2017 yet. In addition to these reports that I have read and I welcome, a detailed financial report is attached and a report on the work of the HINA editorship is attached so that it can also be observed at the level of figures and statistics but also on the level of content, or what the editorship estimates that HINA should be placed as objective information in our public space and not only in our own but also in the EU space. In 2014, HINA took out a loan as we have seen from the financial report and paid it off already in 2015 which was commendable, and this loan was intended for the restructuring of the agency, however, in these reports it is necessary to highlight the year 2014 as a breakthrough, as the lady said in her submission of the report. She went out on social networks and in 2015 she continued positive business, invested in developing her activity but still the most important feature for all three years the full financial report is a positive business and also that the excess income was invested in technological progress, strengthening administrative capacity, and today as we heard HINA has 125 employees. Of course, there is a question of their further education, their personal improvement of professionalism so that, of course, all of us who are users of the ultimate HINA services have as high quality services as possible. It is also to point out that in 2015, a 58,000-euro contract was signed, with the European Parliament in cooperation, and thanks to how much I read in the report to the European Commission's positive assessments, this contract was invested in portals, such as Health.hr and EU portal and youth, which is a media partnership with the European Parliament. The key question is us, at the end of some of those facts, facts, statistics and figures. The key question, for us as legislators, which we bring here laws, including the HINA Act, but also for the end-users of HINA services and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, is that positive financial business is a key criterion for the successful loss of a national agency and the importance of the role played by HINA as a national agency. It should certainly be stressed that as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we should insist on further professionalisation, ethics and objectivity of people working in HINA, but I would say that people who are employed in HINA, perhaps today, in the Croatian media space and public space, have a rare privilege of working in the national agency, as much as they can be objective, unlike the influence in some other private media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73253	One is a replica, dear colleague Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73254	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Putica, you're asking a good question about whether finance should be our only criterion of trust, and of course I agree that it should never be. However, as I pointed out in my presentation on behalf of the club and as I was saying earlier, we must be aware of the delicateness, as we have also liked to say lately in our position. So if we can't be attributes of professionalism, we have to set up a set of very clear criteria for these others, which is why we will evaluate and what we will still value as criteria. Well, in that sense, I'd like to hear more about it, so what do you think we should do about it and how we should do it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73255	The answer of my colleague Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73256	Dear fellow Glavasevic and you and I, as MPs in the Parliament, as well as politicians who are engaged, therefore, very often in the media, know exactly what objectivity is, therefore, no matter which political side we belong to and what personal attitude we have on certain information. It is clear to all of us that one national agency, first of all, must be professional and objective, and that this information should be put together as a platform for all other public services in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73257	Next individual debate, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73258	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of HINA and the Ministry of Culture, through our replicas, I've actually talked a lot about HINA, but I want to now, given these reports related to 2014, 2015 and 2016, I think they deserve a little attention and are actually talking about them. This reading of the data for 2014 and 2015 and 2016 also shows that since 2012, when the personnel, their own incomes, HINA managed to reduce by only 2 million kuna, i.e. about 8 million kuna in 2015 and the smallest in the history of HINA. This can really be read from these tables, which are attached, which are attached in this report to each report, which are comparable data on incomes and expenditures, which has been from the state budget for HINA, which has been their own money since 2000. The current leadership, I said in the replica, says that it is a positive business and I certainly welcome it, but it is neglected that during the Kukurik coalition, in fact the number of employees by about 30 was reduced, and these revenues remained at the 2012 level when HINA hired 160 employees. In 2012, HINA employed 167 employees and received 18 million kuna from the state budget and that year its own funds were actually around 10 million kuna, which is also to be read from these reports. Today, HINA employs, so it stands in these documents of 120 employees. Therefore, the funding from the state budget, which HINA receives from the contract with the Ministry of Culture on a more expensive subscription, is about 17.4 million kuna, and HINA's own income is around 8 million kuna. However, the administrative council did not increase the value... For wages, it is expected that HINA should annually make at least 3 million kunas of revenue more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's in one of my calculations, but the reports say it's not visible, the surplus is far less. And now the question is, why? The report shows that the cost of gross wages is increasing, which is also incomprehensible because of the above, and that the costs for legal services and the representation that amounted to 1.3 million kuna in 2015. Namely, on the page. 33 of the 2015 financial report states that the gross salary per employee is 167.18 kuna, increased in 2014 to 145217.06 kn. Now the question arises, on what basis, if there was no decision to raise wages, is there any way that the bonuses and prizes are paid and based on what rules? What about hiring without a public tender and what HINA's editorship and administration should do to increase their own incomes, it remained in a valid report or return at least to that level of ten million kuna that HINA achieved in the most difficult years of recession, which is true. HINA, here today we heard, is a public service paying all taxpayers and it should actually be in the positions of one public, objective, fast and credible service that must not be influenced by any political, economic or other group. For a better understanding of what was actually going on in HINA during the Kukuriku coalition, it was about staffing through the administrative board, but also the current director, best said that in the first 6 months of 2013, as I said, they had split 30 cancellations, abolished one entire marketing, and contributed in various ways to HINA leaving 15 other employees who were then unsuitable to them. So almost 45 people. But in the meantime, what happened? They hired numerous fees and mainly in Zagreb where there was no need at all without a public competition. No correspondence was opened, according to the HINA Act. We said today, and some colleagues were saying that we have constant correspondence in Brussels, and everything else is actually done by the feers, so it's at their best, so HINA, for them, is secondary because they report to their home. Only HINA's current leadership hired a part-time associate in Madrid and I said it a little sarcastically today, which actually only reports from the Real and Barcelona games, which is really not good. In one example, let's say the news from Serbia, I'm going to tell you in a vivid way, when there's an employee there when he's been following that news, he's employed in a Serbian media and the news comes down to copying from the media there, so what they're writing, it was also relevant to HINA. So, there is a testimony about this last year when the leadership of the Association of Former Prisoners of Serbian concentration camps headed by Mr. Sagut was then at a meeting with the current President, Mr. Nikolic, to discuss the possibilities for Croatian defenders who died in these camps to be honored. Although, for example, HRT then reported that the meeting would take place in the afternoon, HINA had the news on other media only in the evening. So HINA's correspondent didn't even know about that meeting, let alone that he took a statement after that meeting, which is really not good. And about the organization, let's say HINA's editors sent, in which case we don't have to say more than these facts I've stated. So, HINA with news from Serbia becomes so, I would say an advertising post for news of events in the Serbian media there. In general, the HINA correspondence network is weak and we have also learned this today in the debate in the Croatian Parliament although it should be one comparative advantage over other media, which is not. In Croatia, some areas are also neglected, although all taxpayers pay HINA no matter where they live. So, let's say we don't have any representations in Zadar, Sibenik, Slavonski Brod, Gospić, Varazdin, Sisak, so only from these cities are reported when certain scandals, or some incident situations, occur and are re-discovered through other media, which is definitely not good for HINA. So, the fees first write for their home, which is evident and visible, and then the news recycles for HINA. So, I don't think that might be the worst thing, if HINA editors from Zagreb organised their job well. And maybe a few more facts before the end. What HINA did and what is said in the reports that it has changed the look of the website three times, I told you and in its replica, HINA is not a portal, it is a public service. It is commendable, let's say you also have health and youth subportals for the EU, but HINA is not a portal. HINA is a public service and speak today in your report on the redesign site and the portal itself, I don't think it matters or primarily for the HINA report. There's been an increase in photo editorials. And that is also clear to you, in which people are received without competition in a permanent working relationship, as several photographers and administrators say as part-time workers. What's most in the eyes of one HINA task in the last four years is that flood of transmission from other media. This, for HINA, I think, as a public service inadmissible, has actually turned this HINA task, which is what turned this show into a kind of other media show, and especially some. We also heard about them today in this debate. And now just before the end, a journalist's statement, I'm not going to name it on purpose, best actually describes what HINA is today. So, he was in an interview for one, then it was a weekly, and now it's a September portal last year, talking about the achievements of that television he was working on: the other day they called me from HINA and asked if we were going to pass on a press conference. In fact, they were interested in whether they needed to send their journalist to the event, the journalist said. And under the subtitle, the replacement for HINA, that's how it stood. HINA must not afford it, and it must be the public service on which the media will rely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73259	Thank you. Two replicas. Dear colleague Glavasevic, you are first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73260	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Babic, it's good your exposure, your debate was like that, if we could look at every thing on the one hand and on the other, yours might have been more like, as I would say, the role of the devil's lawyer, I would say so. You've been looking for the negative, and that's the fact that, I'm commending it, that's what someone should do and not get me wrong, but in these two minutes or half minutes that I have left for this replica, I'd focus on one aspect. So when you say they're local that you don't like the practice of taking news from other media and about having no correspondence, you criticize it. So I'd like to tell you one thing, I mean on the one hand about the policy of opening correspondence, it's still a business decision of HINA where it's going to open, where it won't open. And I don't think it's necessary now not to get it wrong, to have a correspondent from Jarmina, a correspondent from the Fericans, etc. It doesn't have to be everywhere. There is a very large role of local media, the state encourages local media, finance them and empowers them just so they can take over part of the public reporting, and HINA, by taking the news, helps local media to gain credibility and trust in them. Also one of the leading problems in the United States in the media landscape, I would say, is the fact that because of the social and major global and these practices of taking news from local media, many local media are failing and this is considered one of the biggest and most serious threats to their media image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73261	Thank you. My colleague Babic's reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73262	In fact, at the very end, you answered what I wanted to tell you in my replica. But you mustn't ignore the fact that HINA is a public service, it is financed by taxpayers' funds and one of HINA's main tasks is the opening of correspondence and policies by HINA itself. Therefore, they must be credible, they must be objective, they must not be under any political, economic or any other influence. So other media should download information from HINA and we agreed today and that's the role of HINA. I don't know what else you've said, I think you've linked yourself to these local media outlets that have been transmitting information that caused those local media themselves to be killed. Of course, because it's unverified information. Ms. Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic spoke about the Ethics Code of Journalists as well as how they should do such information and that is also the essence and task of HINA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73263	Second replica, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73264	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you mentioned my colleague Babić in a rather negative context, although I think there is no reason to do so, to engage in authorships, or in part photographers, and in part people who write. I don't think that should put the agency's work at risk since it's a trend everywhere. So we can't expect HINA to function as it worked 10 or 15 or 20 years ago when the market has not been developed and when you simply didn't have the opportunity to come into possession of certain things and I think it's quite normal way of doing business to focus not entirely, but one part of it sure that on outsourcing certain services, primarily there I think even photographers and logically dissipate it since photography can't be not objective and not true when someone fires a picture it's probably authentic with that event, and the journalist is okay having their own access to writing and it's good that they have a certain position of public interest. So I don't see anything controversial about it, and I don't even think it's illogical that it's likely to develop in the future. And whether they're hiring someone doesn't mean that people are fully employed without a competition. Well, you can't hire a man to photograph five events for the whole month. So I don't see it as negative, but I think it's a development that needs to go into to rationalize business and make it more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73265	My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73266	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Maras, I agree that circumstances are changing and today we need to talk about these circumstances, but this should best be done by the Administrative Council of HINA and HINA itself. So I have nothing against hiring fees, but I have what I said at the very beginning. So the arrival of the Kukuriku coalition then actually divided the cancellation by almost 30 employees, then because of some incomparable 14 more so 45 and after that HINA employs certain fees, I say I have nothing against, but these fees afterwards become permanent HINA employees is the problem. So HINA had people who worked for her, they did it in a good and quality way, but policy change happened in certain circumstances that did not serve HINA, and HINA could use it in the best possible way, that's what I was talking about. HINA as a public service it needs to be preceded in producing and producing news, of course objective news and where other media will be taking over, and thus earning greater income as a public service which is in her interest. So I was saying when I did some comparisons it's unfortunate to say that one such journalist from such a portal is speaking on HINA's journalist's request whether he's coming to pass on a certain press conference, that he writes down that it's a replacement for HINA. That's not good for HINA's reputation, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73267	Thank you. Let's move on, individual debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73268	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President. I believe that this debate and the role of HINA may be more important in Croatia today than in some past times, given that the availability of information especially those that may not be market-interesting, but are of interest to society is becoming less and less accessible in our media space and on this side I think that we all here need to give HINA support to continue to work but also to improve our business or to be more quality than it was before. My first remark is that I am unfortunately looking at this report as a technical report and I would like to have more substances, i.e. that, with the very list of agency users and this as much as they have received, as many employees etc., and some other technical things, means I would be more interested in the relevance of HINA and I would like to have in the report and the list of how much HINA is quoted, how much the articles are transmitted, how much better the quality of the public reporting space in Croatia is with HINA or less if HINA is not available. On this side, the clean data on the amount of revenue, the amount of expenditure, does not give sufficient review of the situation and lacks in the report what is called the content of the substance reports, to see what is the reach, or how much, in fact, the users and citizens of the Republic of Croatia benefit from such an agency. What you see in users is about 100 and some users, there we can now be critical because we see that the sale works more or less at the same level every year, so there are no significant changes, incomes are about the same level, and I don't see any deviations from year to year, so I'm even more surprised that probably for some political reason, most of them decide to accept the knowledge in 2014 and 2015, and here 2016, which is maybe a financial something worse is accepted, I think it's more or less here, that there's no significant reason to accept it and the other one just accepts just for the knowledge. So let's talk about the essence and what I actually think is the most important thing today and we live in a time when unfortunately our public media in Croatia that are financed from the state budget don't meet their purpose, especially here I think of the HRT that gets too much money from the citizens of the Republic, and ultimately, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have less and less every day. And that's why I see this HINA as someone who might be able to help to hear some information in the public space, let's say that you have the most significant event in the Republic of Croatia in the last month that all relevant research is talking about it, which is an affair in Agrokor and the millions of amounts that consultants take from Agrokor without being accompanied by anyone in the public sector. So we have a situation where the private TV RTL did a research yesterday that makes it very clear that 66% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia believe that Martina Dalic must be removed from the government of the Republic of Croatia, 23% do not, 10 has no position. So RTL does this research instead of giving HRT, the public service, what interests Croatian citizens, offers them, to give them that information, etc. We in the last 20 years, I would dare say, we haven't had a more closed public space as far as information is concerned, HRT has never done worse than it does today. Instead of being on the disposition of Croatian citizens, instead of offering them information, they are trying to close information and how in some way to prevent people from hearing what is relevant because how else to ask this question, how did RTL come up earlier, how to do this and Nova TV, N1 constantly transmits and sessions of the Croatian Parliament and that there is no N1, believe me, ladies and gentlemen, it would probably also close the access to the Assembly and information that interests our citizens and on this side enables this media closure and silence that clearly corresponds to the party that is in power. And we can't let that happen. And on this side, I see HINA as someone who can enable that space not to be closed in the way that HDZ would want, but on the contrary, to open up and get the information that our citizens deserve, and that is why he would congratulate some workers who are here, at least I think they were from HINA, even spent the whole night with us here as we discussed the Rules of Procedure which, by the way, also wants to stifle the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I think it is necessary for HINA and HRT to think that it can no longer be helped because there are so many intertwined interests of political and unfortunately struggled individuals in power how to make their own interests, we see that people need to be fired because they are negatively saying about the president of HNS, so it was never since the 1990s, especially on public television in public institutions. And so again I say, it is very important here to give support to an institution like HINA to continue to work but that we can also evaluate it by the content of what it gives and by what it does not only through these dry figures because it is 25 million or 26 revenues or whether it is plus 100 or 500 000 kuna, I don't think it gives us that information, on the other hand, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in fact, are much more important to know, for example, what has been discussed in the Croatian Parliament and why the Istanbul Convention, is still not at the debate, it should be here, today from the Human Rights Committee. So there is no trust that there is no N1 television and I call on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to follow this programme because it is truly objectively reporting all political developments in the Republic of Croatia. HRT would close the door with all information and try to make it look beautiful and beautiful in Croatia, regardless of what people go on a daily basis, what 100,000 people in the last year no longer live in the Republic of Croatia, which we have a problem with non-transparentity and corruption scandals that rock Croatia almost daily, Agrokor we have seen, INA works here all the time, but HRT here is not interested at all. And for that reason, I say, once again, HINAs should be supported, I hope that will spread the number of users, and I will pay particular attention next year and ask that a report on relevance be given. That's what every media and that's why we pay essentially not us, but users and the state are giving HINA support to be relevant and transferred. That's what's important, I don't think it's crucial, whether we have in this town or that town as a reporter, I think it can be covered through the copyright fees of cooperative fees, etc. But I think the relevance is what can ultimately assess whether HINA did her job well or not. Again, unfortunately, in Croatia public television is not doing its job and I don't think it deserves more, that Croatian citizens are paying a subscription, it simply needs to be abolished. So on that side, giving so much money to citizens, so much to single out, people having problems, executions, and everything that follows for what they don't pay, and not getting almost nothing back, HRT in my opinion lost total legitimacy and I say, all the good news is that we have television private, doing their job. Once again I will point out that RTL was doing a 66% survey yesterday by Martin Dalic, and the N1 really does report from the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73269	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. I would just ask you not to promote any television or agency, because it's not our job, we stick to the subject, which is the subject of debate. We have replicas, dear colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73270	Dear counterpart Maras, I absolutely agree that HINA must remain objective and continue to report consistently on everything that interests Croatian citizens and not only citizens and users are both institutions and embassies and the like. However, what we need to worry about, which is if you have read their report since 2000 on here, that the share of the state budget in HINA's financing actually remained very high, i.e., over 60 e. in some years it was 66%, now it is somewhere here 65.5% 2016 while in some years it was somewhere at 49% and has been constantly falling since 2008 the share of users, i.e., the income of service users. So, service users with 17.6 in 2008 are now only 8.5 million kuna or 34.4%. So it would certainly be better if the situation were inverted, therefore, that more than the users themselves are from the state budget and in this way we actually have less expenditure from the state budget. What concerns me here in the report itself is that in 6 counties where there are constant correspondence, only 9 employees are employed that in the other 14 part-time workers and among other things that the general service has 3 employees, therefore, in the very structure of employees, are actually concerned that there are only 9 employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73271	I thank my colleague Peric for the replica. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73272	Thank you very much, colleague Peric. I agree with you that it would be good to and it will go with relevance. If we see that users publish more, that would be logical, for example, someone here mentioned in the debate, that sources are being taken in HINA, and someone would like to deny it or confirm it. It means there's news in HINA from other media. I think that, as you might say, I think HINA's intensity is exactly the opposite, so HINA's not in me, she's supposed to be streaming news from the portal of these or those, but she's doing content for others. So on that side, here's something that doesn't suit me. I agree with you, in order to be sure, with the relevant amount of revenue from the sale, but here, of course, I say again, we have to have the data to compare it. If we have only financial data like this, it's impossible to compare and therefore I ask for the following reports, to make one review of the essential, or relevantness of what HINA is doing, how much it is transferred, where it has been transferred. We can't find out from the very structure of the user, but when we look at the total amount, 25 million kuna, it means it's a drop in the sea, which is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay for every year. Over a billion kuna is spent here, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why I disagree with Vice President Brkic, that we are not here. We're just here to point out this problem and praise it and once again I'm going to say that the N1 TV has not shown up, colleague Brkic, we would be in the middle of the night. I won't say in the dark, this informational but in the twilight of this informational, but in the twilight, so we'd hardly have to strain our eyes to see what's going on here and the N1 television has made one standard possible and the information program, imagine that paradox, has become more visible than that, for example, HRT. So once again here are thanks to the N1 information programme, what gives relevant information to Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73273	I thank my colleague. You see you're not in the dark that you can speak past time. Political commentary yes, but calling for any promotion and lobbying for anyone I don't think is appropriate in this High House. We move on with the replicas, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73274	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maras, you've had an interesting debate in which you've touched everything and Agrodor and young people and salaries and subscriptions and commissions, and you've also made it very fortunate that we have private television that I agree with. However, we recently had the opportunity to listen and watch what it looks like when SDP luggage and television loops, for example. I'll take it off. It happens that SDP is in a position to be the first party in Croatia's history in a pre-profit settlement. You almost didn't ask for an extraordinary commissioner to lead you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73275	fellow Striker, Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have made it normal for you to talk about the topic which is currently current and which is on the agenda and please do not use and abuse the institute of replicas for such statements in the future. Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But here's the word you took from my mouth, and that's all I can say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73277	Thank you very much. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Maras. I hope you don't get out of the picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73278	No, no, I'm always in the subject I'll be very concise. And I am glad that my colleague Strick agreed with me in the role of private media and that he also sees that HRT is not doing its job as it belongs and that it is concrete television that it is amazing that Croatian television has no need to discuss the most important topic such as the recall of Minister Dalic, and that RTL is doing research that says that 66% of the citizens want Minister Dalic to leave the government. It's amazing that public television ignores it, and that on the other hand private television is doing it. And because of how strange and unusual it may seem to someone, but we are now in a position in the Republic of Croatia, given the deficit of HRT, to commend positive examples from the private sector. So once again I'm going to say, people watch N1 TV, the information program is ten times better than HRT. Whoever's listening to me here right now, I'm standing behind it and I'm not standing there because I don't know what to do with N1 television but simply because I see it. They can be critically evaluated, and in the end they can see both ratings research and each other. As for these small remarks, but very small and time-consuming from fellow Stricks related to Sljeme TV, it is your partner Milan Bandic, and Slobodan Ljubicic, with him you are hand in hand, and let such people be in your company. I'm happy that these SDP people are gone and I don't think of these people politically well. They're your friends and you're still hanging out with them, so that's all I can say about Sljema TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73279	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As the Montipittons would say, “And now for something completely different. ” I would like to take this opportunity to expand what I have learned in the debate on behalf of the MPs' club, and this is about the role of HINA as a brand, as an institution in which citizens can trust. So I would like to say here that I think it was really never more important to make sure as a state that citizens can be informed objectively and that they can trust in the selection of information. HINA is one of those two addresses. Another such address is HRT, but I don't want to talk about it here. What I would like to say here and the debate on this subject is to put in a few concepts that we haven't discussed here, but they are important because through them we can observe and valorize somewhat on the trail of what a fellow politician was saying. My first such term is the term "so-called." The ideological bladder or it is still called... in English, and the definition of it would be an ideological bladder is the kind of intellectual isolation that occurs when web site algorithms selectively select and display user information based on their previous behaviour on these sites. So you go on Facebook, you've lagged things, you've lagged some articles published by your friends, Facebook will be your future based on your current behavior with an algorithm that uses to choose more similar content, and you won't be chosen by content that differs in some way. This will reduce the diversity of the content you can watch. Such an ideological bubble ultimately destroys the inherent dialectic character of social progress. The second term I'd like to underline here is the term "so-called." The echo chamber. He's quite similar to this previous notion that I was talking about, and the echo chamber, in English is the eco chamber, is the situation in which one's beliefs are strengthened by repeated and repeated communication in a closed system. So I'd go back to your friends on Facebook again. Your friends, these are two ideas that are important to understand. They kind of intersect, but they're not really the same idea. So, your Facebook friends publish a certain kind of article. You have an interaction with your friends. You express your views, you comment, you actually strengthen each other's beliefs that you already have. And now let's remember that situation where Facebook chooses the content that will come to you, over time you will find yourself in a situation that you and your friends strengthen the beliefs of each other, more trust you start to have in each other as sources of information, than in some other sources of information and that brings you to one, I would say, you know, like when you're in a tunnel and you don't see anything on the side. Now I would remind you of what I said in my debate on behalf of the counsel club. One of the biggest Croatian news portals is recently, I read it in one scientific paper, recently had over 60% of the visits that came from social networks, not through the browser, so not that someone came to the front page and watched all the news there. Let's think about the implications of that for a moment. So, if we have a situation that almost a third of Croatia is on social networks and most of the information is consumed from social networks and if we know how social networks choose the content that will be shown to you, is it really not more important than ever that the content that comes to the user ultimately is really something that you can trust. What I see as the role of HINA and what we can and need to talk about in the perspective is that HINA among other things, so the other one has to be or should at least be HRT, when citizens are watching say, "huh, this information is from HINA, I can trust it." So that's accurate information. Or if there's any information you don't know if you're sure about, I'm gonna go check on HINA and see if that's the case. So that's what we can do, what the state can do to fight the problems that are today in global politics, in global society have become a huge problem. The problem with false news is something the Republic of Croatia was talking about again. So, the false news is primarily a question of the effect of some synergy between this echo chamber and the ideological bladders that we're getting into, that all citizens end up falling into, just because you don't actually exist today if you don't have some kind of online identity. You can't isolate yourself from having to go to the sea of information that my colleague Petrievcanin Vuksanovic told you about, so OK, I don't have time every day to go to 10 portals, but if I'm twitter and I'm following news agencies or portals, the media, so I'm already going to get some news. It's kind of to select that news for me. So, the question of false news is something that we can fight in such a way as to give that kind of trust to the citizens that the news that comes from at least those two houses come to them, that they know that they are reliable and that they can trust them. And finally, and with that I would slowly and end, the question of false news, one would expect that in politics will be automatically condemned, that there will be something that we will all want to fight at the beginning. But it's not like that. The phenomene, which I think also appeared in the Republic of Croatia, although it did not form in the Republic of Croatia, is this famous post-real politics. In a situation where we can't be sure of the truthfulness of the news or the truth of all the claims that appear in the political discourse in the public, part of the politicians said: well, OK. Well, it doesn't matter if it's true. I can work with anything. I can work with information that's not facts, which are lies. Why? Because they're going to say, look, it doesn't matter if it's true, but it matters how I experience it and how citizens experience it. And the truth is important after all. The facts are important after all. So, this abuse by politicians and in some way, riding on the emotions of citizens who have chosen these same politicians to provide them with adequate information, precisely, true and objective information, therefore, it is simply one abuse and what I would like to highlight for the conclusion of this debate is that we need to be aware that we can change that. We have tools at our disposal. Croatia is a country whose language, as I said in an earlier debate, speaks about somewhere together about 21 million people. That's 0.28% of the world's population. So we have, much easier for us to establish control, i.e. to give some kind of certificate of quality to the news in our language than it is in the Anglo-Sphere that has over a billion speakers or in... We've got hands on tools, we've got options to fix the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At least in our little bit of a globe of Earth. In that sense, and with this I will indeed end now, if Minister Obtained is really serious in his announcements that, on the basis of consensus, media legislation, there is certainly room for this. And we will certainly have hearing about it because I think we should all be in the interest of fighting the harmful and negative effects that I was talking about in my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73281	I thank my colleague Glavasevic for this debate. Here's what I'm hoping is that we're going to tell the truth and only the truth in this High House and we're not going to do what you say, ride on cheap emotions and pick up cheap political points like we're all going to work together in the interests of the people and the state in which we live. Thank you very much, we have a final word on behalf of the motionary, President of the Governing Council of HINA, Mrs. Maya Plescalt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73282	Honorable Vice President, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you first and foremost for this constructive debate, we have carefully recorded your presentations and remarks, and this administrative council will advocate further development both technologically and human potential development. Through your exposure it could be heard that HINA is not investing enough in human potential, what she would like to inform you is that most HINA employees are highly trained and regularly attend workshops, seminars and other trainings. Investment in technical and technological development, smart phone equipment, laptops, IT equipment, makes it easier for employees to work in HINA themselves and the information has become faster and the production of HINA's emissions has become faster and faster. The basic role of HINA is to make the information accurate, impartial, timely, and above all true. The administrative council will advocate independence and independence of HINA's work through independence and independence through the Croatian Parliament, which is what the administrative council protects. During the presentation, I heard a simple inappropriate statement, which is where certain pressures are being put on the work of the board of directors by a particular association. The powers of the Governing Council are taxed and it cannot affect editorial policy, and moreover, the HINA Statute allows every journalist as well as the editor-in-chief to maintain their independence and professionalism as regards work and protect their work by the pressures outside the Board of Directors. What I would like to say, as shown in all three reports, and that these reports are standard, are suggested once a year that financial operations show positive results and that HINA has no major work gaps. Here's so much from me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73283	I would like to thank the president of the board of directors, Mrs. Maya Plescalt, for this final word. I would like to conclude the debate, thank you once again to the President of the Governing Council of HINA, Mrs. Maya Plescalt, on the reasons for these reports. Also State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture Mr. Krešimir Partlo and the head of the sector Mrs. Nives Zvonaric. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73284	Report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014. The applicant is the Administrative Council of HINA. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA for 2014 shall be made known. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 104 for, 11 abstentions and 8 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73461	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 294 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I ask the representative of the government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary at the MUP, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Representatives and gentlemen of the Parliament, I warmly welcome you all. Proposal for a Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences against terrorism and other serious criminal offences in Croatian legislation shall transpose the provisions of Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of passenger records data, etc. PNR in the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and other serious crimes. In addition to the crime of terrorism and related criminal offences, Article 5 of the Law is prescribed in the sentence of 26 of criminal offences for which data on passengers may or may be collected and processed. These are crimes for which a prison sentence is prescribed for at least 3 years. In accordance with the provisions of that Directive, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States necessary to comply with this Directive shall enter into force until 25 May 2018. Despite this rather short term, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred this bill to a regular procedure, so in two readings with the intention to discuss this matter in quality, to collect all the necessary opinions and to adopt the best possible law. The purpose of the directive is to strengthen and improve international cooperation with a view to increasing efficiency in countering international crime. This will be done by obtaining data on air passengers available to air carriers on international flights as well as by processing these data and for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal proceedings, for the most serious criminal offences. The international co-operation itself will be conducted by those usual police channels. Otherwise, international travel is rarely linked to terrorist activities and organised crime, international joint organised crime, very quickly and effectively adapt to new circumstances and use them to commit crimes. Following that, the draft law intends to provide legal basis in national legislation, for the transmission and processing of air passenger data, as well as for the establishment of data transfer and processing procedures and safety standards. Therefore, the obligation and the procedure for the transmission of air passenger data collected by air carriers for commercial purposes and the processing of such data by the competent authorities are established. The proposal further defines the competent authorities for the search and receipt of passenger data, their processing, the time limits, the storage of passenger data, the re-disclosure of depersonalised passenger data and sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations of the prescribed laws. A special meeting was held with air carriers in the Republic of Croatia at the stage of lawmaking, i.e. after consulting the interested public where all air carriers were further informed and clarified to them by all legal provisions. Carriers are familiar with the obligation to supply data, planned conclusion activities, implementing agreements, which would regulate the delivery of data, the manner of reporting, protocols and the extent of data, the contact person and others. Here, honourable MPs, respected MPs, these are basic remarks on this law. If there are any questions of yours, I'm willing to answer them and further explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73463	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Katic, we have one replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73464	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State, I have listened carefully to your statements, I hope you agree, that treating citizens, or passengers, should be a sense of dignity so as not to hurt their feelings and dignity. However, whether there are any newspapers, related to specific, strict border crossings, i.e. stronger controls at the entrance of the plane. Whether it's about what's changing, or whether the review controls stay the same, they only come here to mean cooperation, international bodies when you tip who travels, for example. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73465	I thank my fellow uncle. Secretary of State, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73466	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this law has nothing to do with border management. So, by passing this law, no changes will be made to the procedures that become at the state border. This law is adopted in order to measure data, between bodies and among Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73467	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73468	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences for terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. In the introduction, the State Secretary briefly informed us about the meaning of adopting this bill, I would like to refer to some items, which may not be mentioned, and it is important to highlight. So we see ourselves at the world level, what is the international spread of organised crime and terrorism itself and the threat of terrorism. We know how much this applies to the world's air carriers and the very roads of terrorists and generally dangerous criminals across borders. We see that, by means of a Council Directive and by side 2004, obligations and transporters for data delivery and passengers, we have the obligation to collect certain data and our air carriers, air carriers and operate for their commercial purposes and needs, but they were not obliged to provide certain data and normal to state institutions and agencies. This law, which is right and commendable on this side, that the ministry did not go in the direction of changing perhaps some regulations, related to this subject, but came with the bill, just to keep everything in one place, since the issue is serious and with this we prescribe to air carriers certain data, which they now have, means it is not a problem and we don't introduce anything new to them, but simply to deliver to certain state bodies and institutions, which are prescribed by this law. So the primary goal is normal alignment with the directives, which is important to us, the other thing to emphasize, why this law is good and why it should be supported, simply for the purpose of the centuries and the moment we are alone, we are aware of the progress and modern technologies, very much related to the analysis and processing of various data, something that may have been impossible, 5 or 10 years ago, is now in the process of data, very possible today and we can do so before certain analysis and prevent many works from occurring. A few things that are important to point out the same thing, just some kind of fear and the passengers themselves and, in general, that this would not affect some of their personal data, private, is clearly prescribed by the law who and how can collect these data, who and how they deliver them to certain bodies, how they are kept, what they are collected for. The very exchange of data between government and international agencies has been prescribed so that privacy related to the processing of these and the analysis of private data of certain passengers is extremely careful and I don't think there will be any particular problems. In short, the implementation of the directive, which is normal, is our obligation in the law itself, in Article 5, are all criminal offences for which they apply and which is a three-year sentence and more. The clear competent authorities for the implementation of this law, the data protection process and the sanctions themselves are listed, which is a very important right to data protection and any positive and negative discrimination. The Secretary of State stressed what was very good in preparing this bill itself that meetings were held with all air carriers, all operationally prepared so that there would be no news or problems for them. We must stress the importance of this law only the area where we are, which is the transit area, we are the border of Schengen, and when we enter tomorrow we will remain the border of Schengen towards the east. Our airports also see data from 2016 and 2017 and now, in these first three months, there is an increasing and increasing number of passengers, so there is no larger airport which is not in million figures as regards passengers at year level. And it is simply our obligation as a protector of the EU border, but also our obligations to our citizens... of course terrorism is a global problem is a commitment to the whole world is to implement these and to our institutions to work, analyse and monitor what is happening and who is going through our territory. The HDZ Club will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73469	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Bačić. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73470	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So very briefly, the HNS club will accept this legislative proposal. First of all, it is harmonising with legislation or harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, and we must say only at the beginning that after the unmovable events in 2001 when we talk about developments in New York on 11 September, there is a major debate between the United States and the EU on air safety. And this law did not come overnight, it is also the fruit of a long-standing exchange and coordination right between the EU and the United States. What is important and always about these things when we talk about protection against the right to the protection of personal data where the border is and who has the right to insight, whether citizens can see what is written about them. Of course, here it's legally regulated, and there's always something where there might be some kind of public skepticism. What is certainly good at this is all that goes towards promoting or improving security against terrorism and other intended crimes listed in this law must surely be commended. Of course, in the discussion on the board, I also touched on certain data that should be collected right now, which airlines should collect and deliver to the MUP which will be responsible, among other things there are also general remarks. So in Article 10, paragraph 12, he would just beg for a little better language. What we ordered him to write including all available information about underage passengers without an escort under 18, a little awkwardly said. So I realized that you think of underage people who are under 18 because in some countries adulthood is acquired by 21 years and that they can be passengers through our airline companies. Of course the answer I got, my question went according to whether it was in line with this law with the child's attorney, I got a positive statement, so I absolutely welcome it. And the expression one mentioned here, which is the depersonalization of data, so all of the data stored for five years are then deleted within six months in a way that can't be seen exactly who it is, so specific names, last names and everything that happens. This exchange will go first and foremost with Europol, so it will go both ways, not just saying that we are sending our data to them, but it is going in two directions. As I have said, those names, addresses, payment methods, value programmes, what I am going to do in all of this remains as far as the provisions of the infringements are concerned, where it is stated that airlines will be punished, or those who are bonds of data delivery if they do not deliver it. However, what if such structured data are leaked or delivered to the wrong addresses? We have the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, however, I am afraid if we are to structure certain data so that we might include them in these infringements, if a certain structure is correctly sought, which must be delivered, which is now that there are 19 different points from the date of booking, travel, name, address, road plan, programme of values of the award miles, passenger status, general remarks, and even the language the child speaks, information from the travel map, etc., etc. All that can be, it's the only thing I'd like to express, maybe some kind of skeptic, if there's any way that this law can prescribe a violation provision, because God forbid that the structured data is being retained because the airline companies, be sure they already have all that information. Be sure, they already have all that information. They use it for their marketing, for their search for new customers, or users. So it's not a dispute, it's also trade chains. But this is about uniting everyone into one place and it's commendable. But through this structure whether, I don't know if they're working through that structure at all, that structure is what might have led to some abuses if, God forbid, it leaks. Here, that's final. Once again, the club of representatives of the HNS will support, just here you are, for this remark, or a suggestion or suggestion to try to see what with these misdemeanor provisions. If not to be supplied to the competent authority, but to be supplied to the wrong or unauthorised, simple sharing of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73471	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Curaj, for this debate. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73472	Thank you very much. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I suppose no one before these 15, 10, 20 years ago could possibly assume that the 21st century on security would be, in fact, so insecure that there would be so many conflicts and terrorist attacks. So allow only a review of one part of the terrorist attacks in the EU for three years, since we are members of the EU. 2015 - France, Paris - 12 dead. BIH, Zvornik - one. France, Paris – 129. 2016 - Belgium, Brussels - 31. France, Nice – 87. Germany, Berlin - 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the UK, London - 11. Spain, Barcelona - 16. UK, Manchester - 23. When we look at it, it's hundreds of EU citizens killed and thousands wounded and injured. When we talk about the security aspect, of course there is not a single country that can talk about economic progress, the security of its citizens, the development of tourism, which is important for our country without security. In view of all these new forms of terrorist action that pose a security challenge for the entire international community and require involvement at national level, it is necessary to strengthen and improve international co-operation, and to ensure effective exchange and use of all relevant data to detect, prevent, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. In this connection, the use of data from passenger records is a key tool in the fight against new occurrences of terrorism and other serious crimes, since it allows the identification of persons who were not suspected of taking part in such crimes. Using data from passenger data, it is possible to look at threats in a different way, thus ensuring preventive action on possible safety threats. Comparing data from passenger records with other records and databases shall ensure the collection of the necessary information or evidence to find the perpetrators of criminal offences and the detection of criminal, or terrorist networks. This proposal seeks to prescribe the obligation and the procedure of data on air passengers collected by air carriers, and the processing of such data by competent authorities, the identification of competent authorities for the search and receipt of passenger data, their processing and storage, the time limits for the storage of passenger data, the identification of the authority responsible for depersonalising passenger data, and sanctions for unfulfilled obligations prescribed by law. The use of modern technology in the fight against terrorism and other serious crimes inevitably leads to a certain impact on the private life and personal data of individuals. It is therefore necessary and necessary to ensure a balance between legitimate interest, the preservation of public security and the need to protect personal data. By respecting the provisions of the regulations of European legislation governing the collection, processing and retention of personal data, this proposal seeks to ensure equivalent protection of those at national level. The effective use of air passenger data aims to further strengthen the activity of preventing the detection, investigation and conduct of criminal offences of terrorism and certain other serious crimes in order to strengthen internal security, and to protect life and security of citizens. In doing so, full respect of the right to the protection of personal data and the right to non-discrimination is ensured as this proposal for a law prohibits the processing of data which reveal race or ethnic origin, political views, religious or other beliefs, trade union membership, health or sexual life of respondents, and, if such data are received, are deleted without delay. The assessment of passengers in accordance with the provisions of the law must be carried out in a non-discriminatory manner. In accordance with this proposal, personal data processing supervision is carried out by a personal data protection officer, as well as by an independent supervisory authority. Therefore, I personally support the adoption of this law. I think collective security is important, that the safety of our citizens is important, and of course, given that we are a tourist country, that we care about security and about tourists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73473	Thank you very much, dear fellow Uncle. We're moving on to the next debate. My dear colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73474	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Data Transfer and Processing Act was, as far as we heard, in the debate in the European Parliament. About 3 years has been debated, which is not surprising since one balance should be found between the protection of personal data from the other side of air security. When we want to apply this law, we will have further problems in the practical organisation and implementation of this law, or the establishment of a passenger information unit. Let me just warn you about a few things this time. In the case of data transfer and processing, and the supply of data on third countries, such personal data is concerned, or information is provided which will be exchanged or should be exchanged with third countries but also likely for safety purposes in national frameworks, it is not really clear or at least I could not indicate whether it is or how it is handled in the course of the investigation to individuals who may be identified as questionable or problematic in air traffic or data on persons for whom criminal proceedings are opened or on the reporting data. These are different categories which can then lead to different consequences or prove to be accurate or incorrect. On the other hand, the law also provides for Article 28 that each passenger will be granted the right to access, correct, delete data. Here, given that we are at the beginning of a process or the construction of that system, it is not clear which address, what are the conditions and how each passenger will be able to access that data or correct that data. This problem itself actually opens up another question that I feel we have no solution nor have we discussed in the Croatian Parliament, we have a series of efforts and individual actions in the digitisation of the state administration and simply of the Croatian society, what is called the e-Croatian project with one common terminology but in fact one comprehensive program of informing the e-government and Croatian society, we do not have it or was not at the debate in the Croatian Parliament and I do not know who the holders of the project are. I believe that this segment of the knowledge-sharing organisation must be part of this one national project rather than creating some new system or subsystem within the MUP or some other agencies. It is likely, sooner or later, that the provisions of this law will bring to the agenda to ask the question of the state administration, under which conditions and when it can form databases, several terms are used, databases, user bases or repositorys, etc., we will have to define when, under which conditions an institution of the state can form these bases because in most laws it is said that citizens or citizens have the right to access all these bases and to seek data corrections that are incorrect. In other words, this law also puts pressure on us to pass a law on when and under what conditions can a battle of state-owned data be formed to finally have insight into how many of these bases exist. Today we don't have such information, we don't have who all the databases exist at the state level. In that sense, it's going to take things to start happening on another level because this kind of partial solution, I don't think it's going to be good. The promoter also said that jobs under this law will not require additional funding because they are already insured in the budget for this year. However, if it goes seriously into the implementation of this programme, it will require both new people and new equipment and additional jobs for which it will seek additional funding so that it would be very precise at least if not now, in the coming year it should show these costs and that is something we must face. In addition, there is a question about this law and other laws where data exchange is sought with other countries outside the national framework, we do not have, today, a Parliament has no ability to obtain reports or insight into data exchanged with other countries about Croatian citizens. Today it may seem irrelevant to the eye, but if any information turns out that person A was detained after a game as a result of a riot or I don't know of any such things as a minor offense, it can be returned to him through, if such data are exchanged to him after a certain number of years as a boomerang. But we don't have any insight into the amount of that data, the kind of data that is being exchanged, whether they are regularly deleted as the law provides, so it's one area that will also require to be arranged because so far, in my opinion, it's quite a flexible, or an unsettled area. So I think it is good that this law goes into 2 readings, that a series of these issues be considered, discussed and prepared answers to another reading, to get as precise and better law on the one hand, and on the other hand to find one balance between the protection of personal security and the security of transport, i.e. protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73475	I thank my esteemed colleague and Professor Tudjman. We have one replica, dear fellow Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73476	Thank you. Comrade Tudjman, you, most of your discussion, have dedicated that in the implementation of this law, there will be an unnamed intrusion into private life and personal data of individuals, or that persons who will come to this data will have insight into... origin, political views, religious and other beliefs, union membership, health, sex life of a person who will process. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the law also provides for a competent supervisory authority. I agree with you that it is always difficult to predict all possibilities of abuse, but that it is desirable in advance by law to predict which such behaviour is undesirable, it is certain that this law requires us to withdraw, which, as far as it affects a person's private life, and how important it is for us to maintain public security. I certainly believe that public security should be our first priority, and among other things 2, 3 months ago, there was one show, where the citizens themselves were being questioned for what they thought was safety, i.e. when they entered the plane and most of the way away, the highest percentage of citizens, so over 90% were thought to be safe in the right place. Well, if there's one comment, then, when it comes to individual personal data and public security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73477	I thank my fellow uncle, Professor Tudjman's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The problem is one set of personal data you were supposed to be talking about, and that's where we need protection. However, the law provides for the exchange of data on criminal acts, on a whole series of criminal acts listed here. And I asked the question, what about the data, is, when it comes to individuals in the investigation in court proceedings or the data that the reporting services have collected, and these data can be shown to be incorrect or irrelevant to this problem during the process. And then there's the question, how to ensure the protection of individuals who were then included in certain databases or certain records, and to simply avoid the situation, that the person who was recorded at one point, that another aircraft carrier, after 3 days or 3 months, does not take her off, does not take away her right to fly, because that information is either guilty or guilty. We still have such examples today, and this is the question of how to make this mechanism precise and passable so that these side effects do not occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73479	I thank the esteemed Professor Tudjman for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73480	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, secretary of state with a guest. So, before us is the law on air safety that came from the EU, it is neither first nor last, and apparently it is working on an ever-increasing tightening and the same control, and we can see it every day in airports, especially those who have the opportunity to travel, that people are being examined there, practically but naked skin, that their shoes and socks are being stripped, that their toothpastes, perfumes, hair gel, water are being taken away. That they're getting through every radar they can get, and they're missing out on it a couple of times. And the question arises as to what limits that control will go to. Is the purpose, that control of the fight against terrorism, or is the purpose of that control, control of its own citizens, limiting human rights. Are we going to be examined soon on buses, on trains, as in the age of Stalinism, when we go from the street to the street? I have asked the Secretary of State and I can ask the Minister and Government how many terrorist attacks have been in Croatia since 1990, how many terrorists have been arrested, how many such terrorists have been in Hungary, Slovenia, BiH, Serbia, and why is Croatia so concerned about the terrorism of the sale of weapons to terrorists? Why we give weapons to Saudi Arabia when we do not know to whom Saudi Arabia delivers these same weapons, and we have clear indications of indicators, especially from independent journalists, that the Croatian weapons end in Syria, that the Croatian weapons end in Yemen and that the Croatian weapons ultimately turn against not only Croatia but the EU and all of these countries that are now very concerned about these events. What I'm trying to say here is that we should work harder on removing causes than we should on removing consequences. If we want to live peacefully and prevent violence, then we must act in this direction first. This way in which we only deal with consequences is possible that there are essentially other intentions that are packaged then it's like fighting for security in the fight against enemies we don't know who they are, or what they are, or where they are, or from which countries they come or who finances them. I hope that in the future these measures will become less and less relaxed, and not only will they be sharpened again because I'm afraid that maybe that's why we could live in a police state, and the question is, is all this danger real or just virtual? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73481	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for this final word. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I thank the secretary of state at the MUP, Zark Katic, and his associate, Mrs Daria Drakulic, for the reasons of this bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73482	Proposal for a law on the transfer and processing of air passenger data. Here you go. ... I suggest you, you don't have a card, do you? [[You can't hear it.]] Then I suggest you vote manually every time. We don't have another method. Proposal for a transfer law... Did you find the card? And, well, colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you to be serious. This is the representative body of the Croatian people and to act responsibly and not really do the circus since the vote. All right. Proposal for a law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 294. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: a proposal for a law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 115 for, 1 abstention and 3 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73483	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the add-on to pensions achieved under the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 195. The SDP representative club shall be proposed on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. Here you can see the legal proposals for the opposition go into emergency procedure, so tell Mr. Maras it's not that dark after all. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the competent Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Government delivered its opinion. I call upon my distinguished colleague Miranda Mrsic to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This law could have another title, which is that we won't let us have two groups of pensioners, one born in '61, and the other born in '62. A year. The pension add-on law to remind you of the Pension Insurance Act of July 1998 for pensioners who made pensions from 1 January 1999 exclusively under the Pension Insurance Act of 1 October 2007 shall be awarded and paid an pension allowance of 4 to 27% of the corresponding pension depending on the year in which the pension is granted. It's the facts. What was the purpose of that supplement? In order to remove the differences between pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act resulting from the gradual extension of the accounting period for the calculation of pensions under Article 184 of that Act. This resulted in unwarranted differences between pensions achieved under the same law, and on the basis of the same salaries and pensions only because they were not achieved in the same calendar year. It doesn't sound like it's the same thing that we're trying to do with this law right now, correct an injustice that isn't the people who retire, they're not the ones who are not to blame for it. In order to mitigate these differences between pensions made from 31 December 1998 under previous regulations and pensions of 1 January 1990 under the applicable rules on that insurance. The amendments to the laws that entered into force on 1 January 2012 have made the supplement to be paid in addition to retirement an integral part of my colleague Hrelje's pension effort, so the allowance is included in the pension and has become part of the pension. All those who were 1st January to remind you in 2002 were under 40 years old, so born in '62. and later became law-abiding insurance companies of the second pension pillar and since then 5% of their pension contributions have been accumulated in pension funds. The 1999 law, which gave rise to private pension funds, also tightened the conditions for the calculation of pensions, so the new pensioners became social cases and to ease what happened to them, Sanader's government, so the HDZ government in 2007 introduced an add-on to pensions. The supplement is now 27% and it was introduced only for the I pillar because at the time the second pillar insurance companies were too young to retire. The government of Jadranka Kosor intervened for generations of insurance workers between the ages of 40 and 50 in 2002, who were able to choose whether to receive a pension from the I pillar or a pension from the second pillar. The intervention went on to enable these people to leave the II pension column and to receive pensions from the I pension column because they were too short in the second pension column. So these were all interventions that allowed injustices and indifference in the pension system of the IM. However, those born in 1962 will not have that possibility if we do not pass this law to ensure that their pensions are equal and equivalent to pensions from the I pension pillar, i.e. to meet the objective of the law, which means that pensions from the I and II pension pillar, because that is the basis of pension reform itself, are greater than pensions from the I pension pillar alone. And that is the foundation of the whole reform. But if we don't include 27% in the pension paid out of the I pension column, then there will be a imbalance. We are going back to 1999 where we will have two groups of pensioners because the indicative calculations show that a person who is 60 years old today, who has been included in the II pension column and has had an average salary during his lifetime, will have a pension of 2690 kuna. If a pension allowance were applied, it would amount to 3267 kuna, which is 577 kuna more than it would be if we didn't pass this law. That means our citizens would be cut off by 577 kuna. They would permanently have a smaller pension, which is about a fifth of their pension. If it were an injustice, it would also indicate that pensions from the I pillar are less than pensions from the second pillar, i.e. persons 50 years old from the I pillar would have a pension of 3134 kuna, and with the second column 3442 kuna. The first pensioners to receive pensions from both pillars retired from January 1st this year. 17 have been recorded so far. Last year, I'm sorry. So far, they have been registered 17, and every year they receive 300 to 700 kuna less pensions than those who are retired a year earlier and receive pensions only by the I step. It's about people who worked in the same jobs, they had the same average salary and it's not fair and it's not human and it's discriminatory that they only have fewer pensions because of legal regulation than that colleague who retired from, who was born in 1961. Because those born in 1962, I repeat, were unable to choose which part of the pension system would be included, whether in I or in II. They had to go to the other one by law. But what will happen next is that in 2019 they will retire to a woman born in 1962, who, if they have enough training, will be able to retire early. However, if they do not have the right to add 27%, proportionally to the payments in the I pillar, their pensions will be significantly lower than those of those women who have achieved only from the I pillar. Plastic and, for example, to see what the problem is. A woman born in 1962 who had an average salary will leave from 36.5 years of early retirement in 2019 and will have a 22% lower pension than the same colleague who was born a year earlier, perhaps 31.12.1961 with the same salary, who will retire at the same time. Also, indicative calculations show that a person who is 60 years old today, who is included in the II pension column, had an average salary during her lifetime, will have a pension of 2690 kuna. It's a small pension. Clearly, pensions need to be much bigger and we all have to fight here to make pensions bigger. If a supplement is applied to pensioners who are only in the I pillar, the pension would be 3267 kuna. So 577 kunas higher, or for so many citizens, would be permanently abolished. For citizens who are now 50 years old, that difference is 538 kuna. We therefore believe that, and yes, this is our initiative today in the Parliament, that it is necessary and fair to amend the Law on an add-on to pensions, which would allow all insurance companies to have the right to add to the pension of the I pillar, i.e. to extend the right to both pension pillars, not to be exclusive only to those who go on the first pension pillar. For a quarter lower pension, it would be incomprehensible for all those who, by law, saved in compulsory funds. Therefore, it is necessary and fair to amend the Pensions Supplement Act, which would allow all insurance companies to have the right to add to the first pillar pension or to extend the right to both pension pillars. The proposed law adds to a pension to be determined and paid on the basis of the Pensions Supplement Act, which is reached under the Pension Insurance Act, to beneficiaries who make pensions from the first and second pillars with all the consequences in this respect. First of all, we think of financial ones, but we believe that the state must ensure to its citizens that everyone has equal rights and that everyone has the same possibility of going to retirement, that everyone has the right to have their pension calculated in a unique way, and that it does not depend on when and what years you were born. The adoption and implementation of the proposed law and the provision of an allowance to pension and pensioners of the first and second pillars shall ensure social security and justice. I'm sorry the government didn't recognize that. Apparently, the government of these 17 people who, this year, will be even more, does not mean that these people get 570 kuna less pensions, which pensions their pension as big as houses. Apparently the government doesn't care. The government that is determined, which takes care of its citizens, is that there is also a Croatian citizen who is discriminated against by this because he was born in 62 and not 61. The government should have dealt with it a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73485	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Mrsic, is impressed with the number of SDP deputies who have been attending this debate the last days and who have been shouting violently for the past few days, yells that opposition proposals do not come on the agenda. So much for a crackdown on some political debate. Now I'm going to go back to what's the measure of things. So for one thing, when the Retirement Act was passed, when pension reform was carried out and when the law was passed, there were two kinds of people. Those who had to go to another mandatory pillar and those who chose. The second thing, what was then said that by 2008, the second pillar of retirement should grow from 5 to 10% of those points. Third thing. If with this kind of intervention we go to the second pillar of retirement, we basically break the basic principles of how the pension system of the Republic of Croatia is set up at this moment, because look, we're patching up and hanging on the budget again, and at the same time our mouths are full of stories about how the moment when pension payment starts from the second pillar of retirement will reduce the pressure on the state budget. the cost of the expenditure side of the pension budget will be lower. Therefore, if this problem appears as you stated it, it should be handled in a completely different way. Why? Because at this point in time, Croatia thinks that there are 4 or 5 types of pensioners because of these various supplements because for these or those political reasons or the financial potential of the state no one was able when these various supplements were added to the problem. Just remember that 6% plus 100 kuna. First it wasn't in the indexing base, then it was inserted later. Today it's an annual cost of over a billion kuna. And the moment the decision was made was less than 100 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73487	I thank my colleague Shuker. Answer, dear fellow Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73488	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, if you are so brave as to put the laws of opposition, put the Istanbul Convention ratification of the law here tomorrow, and then perhaps by doing so you will prove that you do not choose which opposition proposals you will put on the agenda and which you do not. He waited as long as this bill did. System disorder occurred at the time 27% was given on the first pension column. So, 27% at that point you made a imbalance in the system. He solved the pensioner's problem after 99. He got rid of it, but there was another problem. It's always like that, when you solve one problem if you're not looking far enough, you get another problem. Therefore, those who were born in 62 if they are not given an addendum to a pension paid from the first pension rate have a 27% lower pension than those who receive only from the first pension stake and that is very logical and very simple. What is important is to say that pension reform should continue, but you were also Minister of Finance, the HDZ did not do anything from 2003 to 2010. So I'm asking you why you didn't? These were times when the economic situation was relatively good in Croatia. Why didn't you raise the release for the second pension stake, and at least on six, and at least on seven, it doesn't have to be 10 and thus push the reform? You left her standing in one place. You have neither abolished it nor promoted it. Unfortunately, it is a fact that you must be aware of when discussing pension reform. If that was when the separation went to 7 or 6%, we would be talking a lot different today than we're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73489	I thank my colleague Mrssic. Please, fellow Shucker, don't come in. I would ask you to stick to the topic we're talking about today, and you were one of the people who acted and high-ranking in executive power, so if we're going to transfer what anyone could to each other, then I don't know where they'd come from. And as for Istanbul, the mandate is only a year and a half, we still have two and a half years, so don't worry, it'll come when it's time. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73490	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrsic, it's not correct or collegiate when you say at the end of your debate over the public, that the government means nothing to these people, you're talking about 17 pensioners, possibly 20 of them. So, after your proposal that came to the Croatian Parliament, on the SDP proposal. It has been discussed and the Government has, of course, given the government's opinion on your proposal, and in that opinion, the Government has explained almost 10 points, which is why and in what way, it is not possible to adopt such a proposed law, as you have actually proposed it. However, for the sake of the public, the following should be said, therefore, to these things when the Law so called “the Law ” was in force. ... In 2003, the Pension Insurance Act has just been recognised that people you speak to should not be in both pillars, or that they should remain in the first pillar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you understand that. In 2014, when you passed the amendments and the amendments to the law, you were then Minister of Labour and Pension System, you ignored that fact. So, I could now say that it's hypocritical, when you're talking about these things now, and you actually knew at the time, or you might now be pouring ashes, because you know you've made such a failure, which is evident. About the government not doing enough, it's not true. Here is Mr. Hrelja in addition to your pensions, which is why at which point, when and from which time comes at what percentage amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73491	I thank my colleague Babic, the answer, my colleague Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73492	I'm going to ask you the opposite question, in 2003 it was in the power of the HDZ coalition and why you did it in 2003. ... So, in 2004, why didn't you kick them out of the system in 2004 and say, therefore, these are the people who are in the benefits of working hours, we're talking about them, so they haven't been kicked out, in 2014, we've clearly recognized that part. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And after that, it was supposed to go to this law that I'm proposing to you right now. So in the plan and in our election programme, it clearly states that we will include 27% in the payment of peacemakers from the first pension post. So we didn't forget anything. We are not in power, you are in power, take what is good from us, so do something of your own. I expected that based on this, the government would come up with some concrete solution. Because the fact is, these 17 people, the government doesn't care. So 17 of them are receiving a pension of 570 kn less for another year. We warned this last year, almost a year ago, that it was going to happen, and that it had to be resolved urgently. We've been standing in the parliamentary procedure for a long time. And that's the problem we warned, you can't say that I'm illegal, I'm just saying that those 17 people need to be resolved. You took 6,000 kunas from each of them. So the budget won't be saved with those 6,000 kunas, but to that man who has his pension, 6,000 kn is like a house. But the fact is that you took these people, stole whatever you wanted 6,000 kn that we could have solved a year ago. The government's been thinking for a year and I don't know what he's thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73493	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73494	Dear fellow Mrsic, I listened to your explanation and can say that I agree with everything and that this initiative that SDP gives is good and positive. And that the “new pensioners ” were indeed wronged. Because for the same thing, for the same work in practice will have a smaller pension. However, it draws attention to the fact that the entire second pillar of pension insurance is actually a failure and that these "new pensioners" will also have fewer and fewer pensions. And that, in fact, the only permanent solution is to abolish the second pillar and that the state continues to return, i.e. gives pensions to pensioners as before. The pensioners will benefit from this, and these private pension funds will be lost, i.e. those who manage them. Because if, for example, the assets of the fund at the annual level, if the fund earns from interest on government bonds, say, rises by 5%, the cost of fund management is also 5%, and that's why the assets of the funds don't essentially grow. So the money people give doesn't fertilize. And on the other hand, that money that was invested in stock, like Leda and whatever, that money was gone. And so here's why I call on SDP to go after that to expand the solution, this is a good fire measure, but the final solution is actually to get all the pensioners back to the state pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73495	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for his reply, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73496	Comrade Pernar, it would be as nice as you imagine, but there's a little problem, so, the system, the retirement first pillar is based on how a lot of people work, and a little enjoys retirement, that's the Bismak system. And unfortunately, it will no longer be in Croatia. It was there in the early '90s. when there were 500,000 pensioners and there were almost 2 million people who worked. A million and 800 million and 900. It won't be anymore. Therefore, the only chance for the pension system is that the greater the number of employees, and that is what pension reform is based on, by transferring everyone, by removing the second pillar, will not solve anything. You may be rid of pensioners who are now but have denied the future of all those who are now young people on the labour market because for them no one will then be able to pay their pensions because Croatia unfortunately is an old, demographic picture of us as it is and simply we have no choice but to continue this way, and that is to develop this pension system, clearly with this additional work that is related to third or voluntary pension funds, all of this is something that should ensure that our pensions are worthy of age. We in our pension system de facto have two pension systems, we have one pension system that's earned by contributions, and we have another pension system that the state has told you no matter how much you work, we'll give you pensions. There are defence pensions, parliamentary pensions, so the pensions of the native army, the pensions of NOB, so it's another pension system that is not at all related to this system and should finally be cleared up and resolved. The first and second pension pillars are linked only to those who have pensions from the contribution. And this other system is those who have pensions, which are paid out of taxes, so what we pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73497	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73498	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, yes, I met with one team of what you say to 17 people, that is, it's already thirty, it's about engineers who, by force, have a full pension, and for those who were born up to a few weeks and a month, so younger than '62. The age has a significant difference or a smaller difference in pensions than you said. Why the second pillar, why 27%? First of all, pre-accounted for a pension as an average of 10 best years, when it was abolished, when the entire pension pension rate entered into the pension calculation, then it was added as of 2010 by 27% of the first column supplement. I was saying it here when it comes to those defensive pensions and spent the number of days on the battlefield, etc., what increases by 1 percent each month and 0.5% that still those who have... from the first pillar... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Retirement will have more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal here, first of all, is working, I don't know if it's a mistake... If the proposal had gone to the first pillar only to the first pillar, it might still somehow have passed constitutionally, so on the second pillar is the addition to the individualised private or capitalised savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on the second pillar you can't add,... Because here and the law is pretty hard to read. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, the difference is, that's what people used to pay for until '99. And the first and then the second. What now? We now have 30 people, in 5 to 10 years it's going to be 1,000, tens, so hundreds of thousands of people. What we're doing right now will affect that. I'm afraid we can't pawn the future and our children for one... a solution they won't give, which isn't complete. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if something costs 100,000 now and in 5 years 300, 400, 500 million, so for 10 billion, we have to have an exact projection, exactly what happens to these people, we can't make a difference between people who are now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73499	I thank my colleague Curai. Answer, colleague Mrsic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73500	Thank you very much. I hope you will support the vote on this law. So the 27% supplement applies only to first pillar pensions. So the second pillar's pensions have nothing to do with the supplement or have anything to do with it. What I keep saying is that we need to think about people, not think about numbers, not think about how much it's going to cost us, clearly we need to think about how much it's going to cost us, but first of all, it has to be human. We've got people here, they're engineers who went into early retirement and logically went into early retirement because they've got an underprivileged job experience, so they're going to retire. I'm sorry about that, the day after tomorrow they're going to have a law on professional retirement that solves this problem of people with benefits, so they're going to go on a professional pension so they can work with that professional pension, again one solution that we're trying to put into some sort of order in the system, the government refused again because it came from the SDP. But neither this nor this law has any ideological feature, it's neither red nor blue nor yellow law, so it's a law for people. A law for those engineers and all those who will retire. It's not fair and it's not fair that one who was born in '62 just because he was born in '62, because he only had a legal obligation, so he couldn't have been in the first pillar, that I had 570 kuna less pension. And that's what the idea of leadership and this law was. The government obviously spent a year thinking something and doesn't know what to do or what to do. Solutions are announced but no solutions are available. It's been a year, it's going to be this year, these people aren't going to have the pension they're supposed to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73501	I thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you. A representative of the government? Here you go, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, Mrs Majda Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73502	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the addition of pensions to the Pension Insurance Act with the final draft law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament and by the Act of 22 September 2017, which is the following. Therefore, the proposed draft law proposes to extend the law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act and to beneficiaries who make their pensions come from the first pillar and those who make their pensions come from the second pillar of compulsory pension insurance. The proposed law does not give a complete solution to this problem because it is incomplete and in terms of how to determine the additive and the height of the additive and the incomplete provisions are as the basis for the supplement. Furthermore, there is no indication of the consequences of determining an allowance for pensioners from both pillars because it is found to be independent of the total amount of the combined pension, and therefore the bill cannot be accepted. Moreover, the proposal shall discriminate, i.e. where pensioners who make pensions only in the first instance and whose pension is the only pensioner to make pensions in both I and II, and whose increased pension from the first pillar by 27% and pensions from the second pillar would be more than pensions that were achieved only in the I pillar. And that would go to the highest level for those with an average wage, and it wouldn't help those with average or below average salary. It should therefore be said that without detailed analysis, this proposal prescribes standards that could lead to new inequalities because the level of investment would not follow the level of giving, if all users were given the same percentage of the allowance, and regardless of the year of exercise of rights, which is completely unclear from the proposal. It should also be pointed out that insurance companies who were not in a position to choose are already necessarily insured in both I and II, and that their contributions, among other things, are not adequately capitalised and the pension of users from the second pillar, must not be at any cost to them. It's also said what some former governments have done, specifically by the government of Ivo Sanader, which was done by the government of Jadranka Kosor. I need to say that the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, Ministry of Labour and Pension System, in cooperation with the Croatian Pensions Institute, is developing detailed financial projections and is considering the best possible solutions that would ensure social stability and security without discrimination, with the sustainability of the pension system and, of course, within Croatian economic conditions. I also want to point out that the government of the Republic of Croatia means a lot to 17 people who are mentioned here today, that only one such man and that one would be important. Therefore, the social sensitivity of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is completely unquestionable and should not be questioned, and for which we also have evidence in increasing pensions by 2.76% already, which is guaranteed by the Republic of Croatia's budget by 1.4 billion kuna. And this is the largest pension increase since 2010, i.e. three times that of 2016. I therefore find it absolutely unnecessary to question the social sensitivity and sensitisation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in view of this data. The problem is, of course, notable. However, it needs to be addressed in a completely different way that is complete and that will provide adequate solutions without discrimination and of course that will ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73503	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for the explanation. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go. ... Comrade Pernar, as far as I know, you've replicated and received your answer. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. Maybe you should go have a cup of coffee. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73504	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Pernar's, a respected secretary of state. Of course I'm glad to hear that you're working on a whole solution and one question, actually before that question I just want to touch the second pillar that's constantly being mentioned here. Someone would shut it down, someone wouldn't. Whether he's good enough or not. What he brought in, and that's the only newspaper and maybe it's the most important one in the entire pension system, and that's the legacy. Therefore, for those who have not reached benefits during life, unfortunately premature death, their successors are legally entitled to that amount of capitalised individual savings in the second pillar. That's what it is, let's say, the most important thing. There's already one big difference because we all know so far that whoever died at the beginning or at any time before the retirement, that the heirs didn't get any of the contributions paid. What I welcome is this whole solution and I just want to ask the question more for the sake of the public because about the retroactiveness of this law that will come because, thank God, we still have time for a great deal of our citizens, for those who are now getting fewer pensions, will they, when that law comes into force, have the right to return from the difference between what the new law would get when that solution is found. Plus we got interest. So, if in a year we make one whole solution that is in mind and one that will be in 2022 and 2027, etc. Retired to equalize because here it's well said and fellow Shucker said it, the second pillar should have grown to no more than 10, to 15% should have come. Then we wouldn't have this one maybe problem. But unfortunately, that gave up. And now we have a problem. Because those 27% on the first pillar are far bigger than here that any individualised savings can capitalize. You can't. There's no such thing as offerings. The yields are at 5-6% and that's still good as which pension fund works out of those in the second pillar. So there's a very clear distinction. But yes, this is for me, let's say for reality is very important for these 17 and other people who will come to see if they will be entitled to a retroactive return of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73505	I thank my colleagues for the replica. Answer, Secretary of State Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73506	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr. Churay. So in the mandatory pension funds, their total assets are 91.9 billion kuna, while voluntary pension funds currently have about 4 billion kunas. What you have well noted is that this government of the Republic of Croatia is seeking to develop a second pillar of pension insurance, you have also observed an inheritance related to those assets in the second pillar that can be used. But unless the right to a family pension is used, that's what's important to say. In addition, it should be mentioned that the provisions can be retroactive and only exceptional and that is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73507	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. We're going to the next line, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73508	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm giving up the replica, but I'm asking on behalf of the motionary to refer to the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73509	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73510	Respected secretary of state. I appreciate your efforts to respond to this problem which I will elaborate in detail in my performance and debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, one thing I ask you and I need to intervene because I intervened so when I was in this coalition that preceded this government not to interpret the social sensitivity of what is our legal obligation. Because indexation twice a year is primarily a legal obligation, and that's the right that belongs to pensioners, that's no mercy or social sensitivity sign. By contrast, abolishing such a decision would be a sign of aggression against the pensioners. So they have their rights, these rights are respected, and the government can always just say we have a proper respect for all the legal obligations involved in harmonising pensions. The second issue is social sensitivity and the question of how many pensions there are and what social groups or groups of pensioners are more or less threatened. We can discuss this at the thematic sessions because we have material to discuss. I'm just asking you to refrain from boasting about social sensitivity to something that's right based on law, you can do anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73511	Thank you, colleagues. Secretary of State Buric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73512	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr. Hrelja. Therefore, it should be recalled once again that in 2014 there was no harmonisation, so perhaps that part even though it should have been, it was not. This year’s coordination, i.e. in 2017, was 2.76% and 1.4 billion kuna respectively in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73513	I thank you for your response to the respected Secretary of State, Buric. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Miranda Mrisc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73514	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I'm surprised every time with your answers, so just to warn you that the HDZ government suspended Article 84. The Retirement Insurance Act, which speaks of the harmonisation of pensions based on the increase in wages and cost of living, and they were frozen as far as I know in 2010 and 2011, so the law was frozen. Yes, by the time the coalition arrived, we changed the law, Article 84, and since then, pensions are being coordinated. Therefore, in 2014 they did not align because the balance of salary increases and the cost of life was zero. So you couldn't increase because you don't have a legal basis, so that's why it hasn't been increased, so when Mrs. Cicek advises us, Melita's been in the system for a long time, so let's let her sort you out a little bit of that dilemma of yours. When we talk about social sensitivity, I'm going to read one sentence, we're going to solve this problem by doing a quality analysis that we're just finishing, and then we're going to go out with the whole proposal. That's what you heard from the secretary of state, but that's what Minister Pavic said on September 22nd last year. So September 22nd was some kind of analysis just finished, but here's six months and longer we have neither the law nor the way it's going to be resolved. And it's not just 17 people, it's 198 people, so the engineer who most don't want to retire because his pension is going to be 570 kuna smaller, just people don't want to retire because they expect it to be resolved. Therefore, this is what this government needs to resolve its citizens' problems and it is absolutely according to this it is seen that the government is undecided. If Minister Pavic doesn't know it, then let the prime minister handle it because the prime minister is undecided, so he doesn't know what he's going to do with it either. This shows the indecisiveness of the government itself. If it's taken so long to come up with a proposal since September, then I wonder what's going to happen to some other problems that are much harder and much more complicated than this. And when we talk about the government's own opinion, it's almost astounding and worrying as I am that the government, or its resolute ministry, shows such a low level of knowledge of the pension system. And to say that it's a shame that if pensions from the first and second pension pillars are bigger than pensions from the first pension pillar, then it's ignorance of the whole reform and that's not knowing, therefore, why we're going into retirement reform. Well, we were just about to go into retirement reform so that when we add up the first and second pension pillars are bigger than the pensions from the first pension pillar. So who would God go to two pillars if we didn't want it to be better than what he is now? And that's the intensity of pension reform itself. In this way, as the Government says in this response, I fear for this pension reform because, according to this, the second pension column, so, what we set out in special accounts with the aim of fertilising it and being more than the state, it is thought that the bank is a pig in which we will take that part of the funds to equalise pensions. And then we're going to pay less from the budget from the first pillar so I can cover it with my release to the second pension column. Well, it's completely ignorant of the system itself, or maybe it's the HDZ plan, so the second pension column uses, so my assets are what I've set out to resuscitate the first pension column. It's something that's very dangerous and dangerous thesis. The text clearly shows that it is 27% and it is clear what is the basis and clearly it goes to the part of the pension paid out of the first pension column. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73515	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73516	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mrsic, here we listened during this debate of an interesting claim, especially from the mouth of a gentleman from the HNS, that funds in the second pillar can be inherited. So I'm asking you to tell me. If a person is 65 years old, gets a pension right and dies, say, a year later, can the savings be inherited? I ask you for a precise answer for the Croatian public so she knows it. On the other hand, there's talk about how the funds are fertilized, how the yields are going to be big, I don't know, is this fertilization going to be bought by Ledo's shares, Ledo and Agrokora? For example, pension companies bought shares of Led by 8,000 kuna, today worth 380 kuna, is this fertilization going to buy Petrochemia shares that were bought down to 170 kunas today worth 11? Does the purchase of the Center of the Bank, the Credo Bank, belong to Dalekovod, Optima and all those great losers who may have been worth nothing in their time today? Can money be fertilized in such a way, can our pensioners expect a really bigger pension in the future, given that at this point, even 76% means more than three quarters has a pension of less than 1,700 kuna? Here are the specific questions that interest our pensioners, so please answer them as a legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73517	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. A colleague's answer, Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73518	That the part that is in the second pension column is inherited because these are the funds that we allocate to that special account, they are paid through the Mirovinski Insurance Company and you can agree with the Mirovinski Insurance Company a way of paying off, as with pension insurance companies agree on a way of paying off as with pension insurance companies agree and how to pay off that second part of the pension stake. But I don't understand you, but it's typical that you from the Living Wall, you're against investing in shares, so now you're against investing in our companies, but you're against everything that's against everything, and you're not saying the solution that would. Because obviously the decision to keep everything in the first pension column and that we're paying out pensions from the first pension column see for yourself that it's not working, because it's too small a number of employees. We'll never have 2 million in Croatia, so a million and 900 thousand employees, so let's put ourselves on the line for demographics, because of everything else, we won't reach that number. We will be happy if we reach a million and 700 or so, to the top of a million and 800 employees in Croatia. And then it'll be easier for everyone when we talk about the pension system, so we won't have to have so many transfers from the budget. But what I don't understand, what would you do? You're against investment in shares of the state, because you say it's not worth it because the pension funds have fees so we grease the fat geese neck, then when you invest in shares, you're also against investment in shares. Clearly, investment in shares has a certain risk. But that's why there are, if you've read the law, and I believe it is, about mandatory pension funds where there are certain anchors where you know how much what and where you can invest in what relationship. So there's something that's safe. On the other hand, we have also introduced that the fund's report is being considered here in the Parliament, so it's the same control.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73519	Mr. Pernar has his word. Here you go. The replica, yes, says here Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73520	Comrade Mrsic, I would like to ask you one question, which is, you said we don't have any more, i.e. We can't apply the Bismark model. You're right, but what's your trick, let's say? You say we can't do that model, but we're gonna increase people's pensions like that model still works. What you really advocate is some syncretism of a privatized and unprivatised pension system where people would still have pensions according to the old model. This supplement of yours to retirement predicts actually that new pensioners have the same pensions as the old ones, although the pensioner's relationship has changed significantly. You say where to invest. Well, gentlemen, dear, look where the pension funds are being invested. They're investing in buying government debts. The state has no money for current expenditure to settle, let alone to pay back 60, 70 billion debts a year. The planning of Minister Maric God knows how much debt this year is because he has no money for expenditures, let alone for debts. And you're a pension fund policy that buys a sovereign debt of a country that has no place to pay back that invests in bankrupt companies like Agrokor and Petrokemia, and you actually know what's going on? In fact, the state uses pensioners' resources to save losers. And what account? Well, at the expense of the pensioners and then you who claim to be in favour of some market principles will actually lead the pensioners to the beggar stick. They won't end up getting back what they invested, let alone what they gave. So my mom tells me, she says – a report comes to her – says – from month to month the planned pension is getting smaller. They don't have to do anything just to keep the money in place, it'd be better. Thank you. Comrade Mrsic, I would like to ask you one question, which is, you said we don't have any more, i.e. We can't apply the Bismark model. You're right, but what's your trick, let's say? You say we can't do that model, but we're gonna increase people's pensions like that model still works. What you really advocate is some syncretism of a privatized and unprivatised pension system where people would still have pensions according to the old model. This supplement of yours to retirement predicts actually that new pensioners have the same pensions as the old ones, although the pensioner's relationship has changed significantly. You say where to invest. Well, gentlemen, dear, look where the pension funds are being invested. They're investing in buying government debts. The state has no money for current expenditure to settle, let alone to pay back 60, 70 billion debts a year. The planning of Minister Maric God knows how much debt this year is because he has no money for expenditures, let alone for debts. And you're a pension fund policy that buys a sovereign debt of a country that has no place to pay back that invests in bankrupt companies like Agrokor and Petrokemia, and you actually know what's going on? In fact, the state uses pensioners' resources to save losers. And what account? Well, at the expense of the pensioners and then you who claim to be in favour of some market principles will actually lead the pensioners to the beggar stick. They won't end up getting back what they invested, let alone what they gave. So my mom tells me, she says – a report comes to her – says – from month to month the planned pension is getting smaller. They don't have to do anything just to keep the money in place, it'd be better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73522	It's hot, Mr. Pernar. The answer to the line, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73523	Comrade Pernar, please identify yourselves for what you are. Because in this discussion of yours, you're walking away from talking about investing, so pension funds invest the funds that we spend out of our salaries. Therefore, they invest somewhere. On the other hand, you're saying that you should put everything in the first pension column and that pensions should be paid out of it. But I'm asking you. What are those pensions going to be like if there's too few people working? Bismarck's model is very simple. A small number of people work, they pay into a pension fund, and so a large number of people work, and a small number enjoys pensions. And that's the principle, and we can't maintain that principle. You are against investment in the country again and you are against investment in Croatian companies. Therefore, make sure you determine what you would do. If you don't think this is right, you tell me what the solution is. It's clear that pensions are small, but pensions like they did in 2000, and I think 1 or 2 increased by a certain percentage, and that's great, I think about 30%, so there was an increase in pensions, so it's possible to increase all pensions in general. But for that we have to make reforms, we have to cheap the state, we have to have fewer ministries, fewer people, fewer MPs in the Parliament. So we're saying everything that should reduce the cost of the state, so if we cut the cost of the state, then we'll be able to invest in pensions of the pensioners. But without continuing the pension reform of people who are now on the labour market, especially since changes in the labour market are happening, digitalisation is going, the digital economy is going, we need to have a clear plan now that we are going with our pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73524	Thank you. Now I'm finally opening up the debate. The first is Mr. Ante Babic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73525	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Before you were sitting there was Vice President Mr. Brkic, and when he spoke about this proposal, he actually said that a SDP proposal was found within a reasonable period of time in the Croatian Parliament. It wasn't now, but it was the other day when we talked about the transfer of ownership over pensioners' homes and I'm glad these proposals to the opposition are on the agenda. This is, therefore, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. Since we are talking about a pension allowance, then it should be said that this pension allowance is paid with pension, and all pensioners who have been entitled to pension have the right to receive the pension only under the Retirement Insurance Act, that is to say, under that general regulation since 1.1.1999 and beyond. Therefore, since 1.1.2012, the pension allowance has become an integral part of the pension since then. The basis for determining the allowance was the monthly amount of pension that is adjusted every calendar year or twice a year, i.e. 1.1 and 1.7 according to the new current value of the pension. And this current value of the pension due to the public should be said that the rate divided as half the sum of the change in the average consumer price index in the previous period and the same rate of change in the average gross salary of all employees in the Republic of Croatia in the previous half-year compared to the half-year that preceded it. That's very important. And the pension allowance is an integral part of the pension calculation formula. Thus, the sum of pensions as a multiple of basic points, the pension factor itself, and the current value of pension and pension factor determined according to the type of pension, then the average value of the pension which is calculated on the basis of all salaries made throughout the working life relative to the average salary of the Republic of Croatia. This pension allowance shall not be determined on the maximum amount of pension but shall be determined on the minimum pension determined under the Pension Insurance Act. Now, the SDP Club's proposed law adds to a pension that is determined and paid on the basis of the Retirement Add-on Act adopted under the Pension Insurance Act would also be extended to users who make their pension not only from the first pillar, but also from the second pension column, although the allowance belongs only to pensions from the first pillar. So, on this, intergenerational solidarity, I agree. Therefore, in this way, pensioners from the first and second pillars shall be entitled to a pension allowance as well as pension beneficiaries only from the first pillar. Furthermore, the promoter explains in one plastic way that a person who is 60 years old today who is included in the second pension rate system, who had an average salary during the lifetime, will have a pension of 2690 kuna, and when a pension is applied to that person to a pension that is calculated for pensioners who are only in the first degree, the pension would amount to 3267 kuna, which is more than 577 kuna per month. The first pensioners to receive these pensions from both pillars went into retirement on 1.1.2017, registered 17, and all have a lower pension of 300 to 700 kuna than that they were retired from the first pillar alone, 20 more by the end of the year. So that's what the SDP bill says. When it comes to the necessary means to be provided, the applicant says that 60 thousand kuna is needed in 2017, and in 2019 more than 42 million kuna, 2020. 126 million, 2021, and thus 210 million kuna or 2022. 249 million kuna if I read it correctly, I hope so. With regard to this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has also shown itself, which has highlighted a few things, I will only taxively list them a dozen, that this proposal does not give a complete solution to the problem in question because of the way in which the supplement is determined, so the first and second pillars, as well as the height of the supplement which is problematic given the basis for the supplement, which is very important. Then the government is also having problems with the different percentage of the pension allowance, not taking that basic pension factor, determined according to the type of pension that should also be done in this bill. It also did not take into account the fact that pensioners who would receive pensions from the first and second pillars, and would be increased by 27% and pensions from the second pillar amounted to more than pensions that were achieved only in the first pillar. It is also forgotten that by 2002 a 20% contribution to pensions in the first pension column was paid, and then 15% went to the pension column and 5% went to the second pension column. The government also points out that due to inadequate capitalisation, this must not go to the detriment of users. So here it is visible in the government's very opinion that it is a very demanding and complex job and it really is, regardless of what might be a colleague of Mrsic and angry or two about it, he really needs to be thoroughly analysed. So it's not enough to just say maybe the government thinks or insinuates what that pension reform would look like when we don't have a single ore of that pension reform and then we can't talk about such things, but we certainly need to analyze this situation. So I stress that the ignorance of the pension system itself as well as the intervention in the law and its frequent changes create an additional problem for the pension column itself and should always be kept in mind when we bring certain amendments and amendments to individual laws because it is an unknown system, and the pension system is one of the three systems in the Republic of Croatia with that health and education system and, as far as I know, it celebrates its 95th anniversary and this Pension Insurance Office is one of the oldest in Europe after that Polish, it seems to me that the second is the second. Therefore, pension insurance related to intergenerational solidarity within the general principle of solidarity on which every human society and every social state rests and is in Croatia the basis of social security for current and future users. So when we say something today and change something in the pension system or through the Pension Insurance Act, we should bear in mind that for a certain period of years, we will be the self-users of pension insurance and what is important to us is what our pension will look like in those years. So this problem really needs to be understood, something the secretary of state said about the number of users of several now, so not every user was one, a dozen or more of them mattered, and it doesn't matter how much his pension is and it's not good to do any wrong because that injustice would say older people cry out in the sky. And it's even worse what Mr. Mrsic said, if that's true, that most of these people don't want to retire because knowing that they don't want to work any longer. Therefore, those pensions that have a well-favoured job experience in the second pillar were only capitalised for 15 years, so it is a short period of capitalisation, and then the question is how they are included in the second pension column and that this period will not be sufficient for their adequate pension. It should therefore be pointed out that the amendment of the Pension Insurance Act and the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds in 2014 was then brought into an unequal position because the Law on Pension Funds until then was in force from 2003, which I said was just recognised that persons should not be in both pillars of retirement or that they should remain in the first pension column. So the revision of the 2014 regulations, if I'm not mistaken, was not considered then, and they remained as insurance companies of the first and second pension pillars. Now, as far as I can see, the Ministry, and the government, too, want to solve this problem in one whole way. I deeply believe that this will not last long and that this problem will be given the attention it deserves. And it is important to say that the solution is not only to give 27% for part of the pension by the end of 2001 and then another 27% for part of the pension since 2002. In order to avoid these inequalities correctly, it is also necessary to project the wages themselves, whether it is 50% of the salary amount, means 100%, 150% of the amount of the payment, the pension funds that we were talking about today, the type of pension, the expected age, etc. etc. And I'm growing a pension. So it is really a complex issue that the Ministry is working on together, and as far as I know from my information and from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. So it shouldn't lead to inequality, but it shouldn't lead to evenness of the second pension pillar because we ultimately decided to do it, and we decided to have a mixed pension column. So no one forced us into it. I believe that you should especially consider those who have low salaries or minimum salaries and who today are users of the lowest pension, and who will not be entitled to retire in the second pension column. And that's why it's a big job for both the Ministry and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute that as soon as possible before this they approach and seriously and responsibly and that, with all the analyses done, they are actually aware of these issues in question, and I believe that this will happen. But because of what I said and what the government has actually pointed out in its opinion, the Croatian Democratic Community of such a bill as the incomplete bill cannot accept as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73526	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. First Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73527	Dear HDZ representative, what else can I say to you than that HDZ has just designed an economic model that has enriched a few, and has ruined the vast majority of our citizens, especially pensioners. The current situation where jobs are gone, where people flee the country, where pensioners are full of no pensions, and employees are few. This system was designed by you, and instead of correcting the injustices you have done, you simply have come up with a new actually humiliating practice, which is the second pillar of retirement insurance that will ultimately not result in a future but is already resulting in significantly smaller pensions and that the thing is worse for people who will go into retirement only a day later will have 27% less pensions precisely thanks to your model. What is most frightening is not what your party is doing to the Croatian people with its policies but the most terrible thing is that the Croatian people support you, what the Croatian people vote for you, what people are rolling around on the floor at your meetings, waving flags and all the scenes I've had to watch. And even more sleazy than that is when your politicians tell them that they will make Croatia the richest country in the European Union, and the reality is that pensioners are digging through the trash and that by continuing this policy and such miserable and small pensions will simply continue this misery of the Croatian people. I don't really know what you have to do to the Croatian people to stop supporting you? I don't know what else HDZ has to do to get people to open their eyes and figure out what your goals are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73528	Thank you very much. It was one replica to the people more than the HDZ. Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73529	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar, when I spoke about the proposal of this law from the SDP in one part, I said that, apart from the education and health care, there is a pension system and this system of intergenerational solidarity is certainly one of the best, and one of the older in Europe. So that was when the third age and pensioners were already being considered. During the day, you are, because it is impossible to replicate in such a way, contradictory in some of your thinking. As far as the pension system is concerned, it might be a good idea to look a little bit not only at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, but also at all that is done for the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, then many things would be clearer to you. So, the smallest, lowest pension, unfulfilled pensions, 100,000 people with pensions of 200 and less kuna. So these are all things that may sound good to the populists and listen well to them and they're good to hear about one population, especially the voters' population, but they don't drink water, they're not true. So, if you followed up when I was talking about the current value of the pension, about the personal point, about the pension factor, we have nine kinds of pensions in the Republic of Croatia. And remember, that in one part of the pension systems finance the Homeland War, the imposed aggression of Serbian aggression in the Republic of Croatia, and in those times a part of the war had to be financed. So these are all things that are related to the pension system. I would certainly be the happiest if our pensioners had far greater pensions and had better said than these pensions could live with dignity. However, it is a lot of factors that are important for the determination of pensions and, on the other hand, it is necessary to view the pension system, pensions and this supplement that we are talking about today in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73530	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73531	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Tell me, given that the second pillar is such a successful measure, why are all the countries of Europe giving up on the second pillar? Why are even neighbouring countries doing this to us? So they either shut it down or freeze it. How is it that out of 130 thousand pensioners who could choose whether to be in the first and second pillars of them only 150 agreed to be in the second pillar while 129,000 850 opted for the first pillar? And how do you comment on the fact that the Croatian public debt exploded in November of last year, what have we now received information about, and that for the first time in Croatia's history it is more than 300 billion kuna? So, is this perhaps the growth your government has been talking about all along? And can you explain to Croatian citizens whether the second pension column affects public debt and if it affects public debt in how it affects public debt? And I also want to ask you for the end of the same question I asked Mr. Mrsic. Is the pensioner, therefore, 65 years after he dies, entitled to inherit the funds that he was paying in the second pillar? I ask you for a precise answer, given that Mr. Mrsic did not do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73532	Here you go, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73533	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, right now answer this last one. So he's right. So he's right, you don't have to doubt that. Look, as a state, we decided to mix the system and it stands. And there's also your information that you've now said that there was a possibility of choosing between the first and second pension pillars and people being able to make up their minds and that's what's going on. So whether there will be a second pension column or not to remain a second pension pillar, it will certainly be discussed in the Republic of Croatia. There was a reduction in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia to lift the second pension pillar, would it certainly, given I don't know, to the amount of 89 billion kuna now in the second pension pillar, so would it be reduced public debt? Of course you would. Of course you would, but we have decided to mix the pension column so you don't have to doubt it while it is now in effect that there are certain benefits that our citizens, the pensioners have from that second pension column.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73534	Thank you. Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73535	Your Honor, Vice President. My fellow Babic, you have spoken of an injustice that seems to the pensioners both to those who are retired and to those who have a thorny path to it. But I'll do it briefly, I've got a few examples here. The first example of a certain Milan-recognized MUP internship by the province of Vukovar from 10 months 91 to 7 months 97. It means 10th date 91. On the 10th month, he was in an attack on Vukovar, later admitted to the work experience he spent during his attack on Vukovar. The second document speaks of Martic Milan. 14. 11. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Date of application for retirement 5. 3. In 2009, the adoption of the 1st solution. 4. 2009 So in 26 days Milan Martic, we all know who I'm talking about has achieved his right. He's getting his pension benefits paid. Furthermore, requests from JNA officers and those involved in the aggression against Croatia. Their demands were to be challenged in 2015 by Zoran Milanovic, who for unknown reasons did not do so, although she had opportunities based on the powerful judgments of Croatian courts and those from Strasbourg. The European Court of Human Rights in Dragomir Hadzic's request, therefore one of the conditions for those JNA officers to have the right to retire under Croatian law was that they had made themselves available to the Croatian military before 31 December 91st, and since the applicant failed to do so did not meet the conditions for retirement as prescribed in domestic law. This decision is made by the European Court of Justice, and we are canceling ourselves because of previous governments that have been unable to challenge the demands of officers and others who have received rights before Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73536	Time, Mr. Culey. Mr. Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73537	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you. Dear colleague Culey, I agree with what you've said and it was actually necessary to discuss these things especially when you spoke about this European Court ruling. Croatia is a serious state and at the moment, some 146 thousand pensions are paid from the level of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute outside the Republic of Croatia, and most of them are pensions from the former state, so on the newly established states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Republika Srpska. I know that case. So that's when we talked. These are in fact the rights of individual citizens of the Republic of Croatia or of those who have worked in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, who live outside the Republic of Croatia today, of course should take their stand. So when you talk about JNA's pensions, something Mrsic said about it. So, you're talking about regulations, special regulations means, pensions by special regulations, and there's about 17 categories of citizens. Among other things, there are participants of the Yugoslav People's Army, and that's true. Therefore, not only are these among these 17 groups included members of the Yugoslav People's Army who were in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and not only of them, but also of others, and of NOB and the Federal Executive Council, etc. So you're right about that. I must tell you that it must be a political will, a political attitude that does not happen. And it's gonna happen, I don't know how to tell you right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73538	Thank you. The last replica of the gentleman. Yes, the last replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73539	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Babic, frankly speaking of this topic in the Assembly, is always this half-empty. A few people are arguing. And unfortunately, it's very difficult to hear about an extremely sensitive, life-threatening topic being debated in a rather irrational way. But what's the fact from what the bill promoter said, and from the government's obvious and what you said on behalf of the HDZ Club, we have only two options at the moment. One is to make a systematic solution for all those in the first and second pillars of pension reform. And if these pensions happen to be less because people are in the second pillar of retirement, the state simply has to find a model to compensate them for the simple reason that the law obliges them to be in that second pillar and another solution is if someone thinks that the second pillar of retirement is abolished and that they simply give citizens the opportunity to choose what they want. So these are two facts that we don't need to run away from, which we simply need someone to talk about as something because if we're going to talk about in any other way, then we're going to come up with what we have now, and it's a sin of all to understand, a nomenclature that, because of the financial pressure, this, this, that could never be found a systematic solution, but that some additions to pensions were solved by certain problems that at the time the law was passed, could never have been predicted. So these are the facts and the third thing I want to say here clearly, at the moment of the establishment I think these companies for the management of compulsory pension funds should have founding capital of 5 million kuna. I think the time has come for those who invest money in these voluntary pension funds to also be on their supervisory boards because I don't think it's a good idea for certain investments to be tied up to mothers of banks founded by those companies for the management of compulsory pension funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73540	Thank you. Mr. Babic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73541	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you on this final finding, Mr. Schooker, but it should actually be said that we are a people who are quickly forgotten. So we forget the circumstances in which we lived, what was actually happening, and how the institutions were supposed to survive. It does not matter, therefore, that even during the period when the economic possibility was reduced that certain malformations of the economic society were actually taking place at the time and they reflected on individual systems, in this case on the pension system. At the moment the law was passed and what you were saying, the Croatian Pension Insurance Act, it would have been or certainly would have been good if many things had been predicted so that it would not go to that retirement supplement but that it would have been included... However, this did not happen and then gradually in addition to the 1990 pension until 2017, they gradually increased in percentage part amounts related to the pension allowance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, because of the correctness of what you have been saying, it should be said that this is a very important problem, that it deserves the attention of all of us in the Croatian Parliament, that and the constructive proposals that are coming, I am also looking at this SDP club proposal, which is coming, that not only should they be discussed, but that solutions should be made. So, the solution is that people are not discriminated against, the solution is that there are injustices, especially in the case of the same years of employment, the same basic point, the same pension factor and the amounts and contributions paid for the pension system and the less pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73542	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debate. Mr Branimir Bunjac in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73543	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with your associates. Today, we are facing the Proposal for a Law on the Second Pension Pillar, which is meant to solve the problem of those people who have to take a pension from the first and second pillars this year. And in fact, we might even be able to support this second pillar if it were some sort of solution, and if this bill was not actually another fire measure, that is, a measure dealing with the consequences rather than the causes. Whether the second pension column is successful or not shows very simple mathematics that a child in the lower grade of primary school might also understand. So if someone born in 1962 has a 27% pension lower than someone born in 1961, then it's quite clear that the second pillar is missing. And that's the end of the story. We have nothing further to discuss. Those people are damaged. These people are at a loss. And it's no different. If out of 130,000 pensioners who have been able to choose between the first pillar and the second pillar, 129,850 choose the first pillar, what further needs to be discussed? So let people have at least the pensions they had and those fairy tales about having bigger pensions, they're just pointless. Be careful, we, all Croatian citizens, have paid 92 billion kuna in the second pillar. And now Mr. Mrsic, and his colleagues from HDZ agree with him, is asking us to pay more, we still have to pay 93, pay 94, whatever it takes. So we paid, and now we have to pay more than that. How much for the second column? 5%, 7%, 9%, how much will we have to pay in the end to settle these debts? HDZ, normally now they've run away because they don't know what to say, has a record public debt of over 300 billion kuna, no government has ever been so incompetent and chatty as to have so much public debt. This is a record record. If the second pillar were united with the first pillar, that is, when the second pillar was placed as voluntary, the public debt would fall 1/3, by a third would be reduced. Almost cut. Almost a third. Now, not since he's grown up again. Croatia cannot move forward if we have a 3.7% increase in public debt in 2017 and GDP growth by 2.8%. So if we look at the complete picture objectively, it's clear that the Republic of Croatia is actually de facto in recession. Those numbers are fake. Croatia currently owes 3% interest on the international market. So 2% of us have GDP growth, 3% interest, we haven't even managed to cover the interest. Public debt is growing 3.7%. What else do we have to talk about? Let's cut the public debt. How will the public debt be reduced? Well, here, with the help of the second pillar. You must know this, that so long as the public debt is high, that the Republic of Croatia is in debt at unfavourable interest rates. That the Croatian credit rating is low, that jobs can eventually be opened, that they have to be held to high taxes, or that they will even have to be increased. It's all the consequences of public debt. So if we cut public debt, we'd increase the number of employees. If they increased the number of employees, there would be more payments to pension funds. Less people would move out. We'd pay less taxes and that would be a profit that would feel society as a whole. And in this way, not only does society not benefit, but the pensioners do not benefit. I repeat once again, they have 27% less pensions. And now here are some MPs talking about how the payments in column II can be inherited. I can't inherit myself! I can't! Man, now we're gonna get used to little kids. Take Mr. Gristle,... Well, anyway, a free pension phone, you have 0800 numbers you don't have to pay, any pension companies, call them, it's free and ask if you have a right when you're 65 years old and you go into retirement to inherit the funds. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I guarantee you don't have one, and they'll tell you what you're right to do. You only have the right, if by any chance you die, that if there is a user behind you, that he may inherit your pension. If there is no such user, the money remains a pension fund. The money remains a pension fund, not some heir. And that's the truth. It's amazing to me. That a man who was a minister doesn't know that no money can be inherited after a pensioner dies. [[Please, please.]] Call me. Let's play what the Mug says, if you don't believe me now just because I'm saying it. Inform yourself. And that's the biggest tragedy of all. The peace companies want to make a profit. They pay their fees a year from 400 to 800 million kuna. I've asked the secretary of state 100 times here, and she's never answered me how many monthly benefits are received by members of the pension companies in their administrations. Is it true they receive 10,000 euros a month? Can I get that information? I can't. They also spend money on our pensions to finance companies that are in their interest, to give money where their people are, not to invest money in companies that might possibly be truly profitable. Here, it's a classic conflict of interest. To caricate, for example, a certain bank finances a particular company. That same bank owns a pension fund. Since this company comes into business losses, the bank with the pension fund's money finances the same company to cover its losses and essentially repay its own money. That's what you do. That's what it's all about. The peace funds serve banks as their private cash registers from which they can collect money whenever they need it. It is said that, in 30-40 years, Croatian citizens and you will benefit from it. Well, we have to survive now. Well, Croatia's on murder. It's those stories about heaven in the sky, it doesn't matter what you've been starving for your whole life, but when you die, then you'll have plenty of food. Croatian citizens do not need promises. Croatian citizens need survival and Croatian citizens ultimately need bigger pensions. The second pillar doesn't provide that. The second pillar is a banking product, the same banking product as the Swiss franc loans. This is a product in which only banks benefit, which do not pose absolutely no risk to the business of pension companies. So, the chairman of any trust fund will have a salary of 10 thousand euros to deal with the fund by profit or loss. He's always got the same pay. He doesn't care how the pension fund works. The only thing that matters to him is that every month the state gives him 5% of the salary of the whole of Europe has given up on another pension fund, the whole of South America has given up on another pension fund, and we're holding on to something that's drunk to pay for something that's proven to be a failure in all other countries. A man who's going to work 40 years, say for a minimum wage, you know how much pension he's going to have from the second pillar? 300 kuna. So whom do those retirement societies lie to be worth saving in another, so let them live with 300 kuna? Here's some gentleman who now said he's very sorry, give him a salary of 1600 kuna, and then let him talk, and you'll see how he'll fight like a tiger to change that state, then he'll start thinking, then he'll tell her maybe it's really something not good. Then she'll say please let's go solve something, and this way her sory knows it's hard for you. It is easy to speak when you are on the other side of the barricade, and he will one day be a pensioner and not God to live with 1600, and on 1600 lives three-quarters of Croatian pensioners or less, 100 thousand of them have no pension. And it's like when it's saved, then you'll have it. He wrote me a pensioner letter, I have it here with me, 500 thousand kuna has been paid into another pension fund, so many workers won't pay for life, has a pension of 27% less. How do pensions get paid? They pay off so they can get death tables by the age of 93. Do you know how many people in Croatia are 93 years old? A thousand, and a million and I don't know 100, 200 grand is a pensioner. The average age in Croatia is 75 years, so pension societies extend our average life span to 93 years as if we were going to live. So here I want to say that the state finds funds for the SDP law and pays those 27% that the pension system problem will not be solved. The problem of the pension system could be improved in such a way that the second pension rate becomes voluntary, to reduce the public debt by one-third, that the state pays 5% each month in the first pillar and that pensions are then increased as much as possible, and since 5% of the salary represents one-quarter of the total contributions then we can probably assume that the pensions from the first pillar and the single pension could currently increase by at least 10% to 15%. This would be a solution and that solution should be maintained, but above all, in order for those who make the decisions to happen to it to be informed. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73544	Thank you, too, Mr. Bunzac. Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73545	I didn't mean to react, but first, a colleague of Bunjac could really learn my last name, not Mršić, but Mrsic. I try to always say his last name exactly, but well, that's not why I answered. So I made it very clear that pensions are inherited from the second pension stake and they are inherited in the event of a pensioner, so if one who pays dies before he retires, his heirs are entitled to the Law on Inheritance to that pension. The system also includes certain social elements, which means that if it dies and has the right, and he was given a pension that his successors have the right to have a family pension, if that family pension is bigger than the first pillar, then he will get it from the first pillar, and his assets will be transferred to the state budget, if it is larger from the first and second pillars, then it will be paid to him in this way. So what you're saying is obvious that you're running certain situations that you think will bring you points. And I'm going to ask you two specific things so answer me yes or no. First, will you support this law? And secondly, do you think that when funds are transferred, so you're in favour of abolishing the second pension stake, do you think you should ask me who is paying those 5% into the account, do you think you should ask me, do I allow my assets on that account to be transferred to the first pension column or do you advocate nationalisation? Answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73546	Thank you. I think Mr. Bunzac will answer what he thinks he needs to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73547	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mrsic, I apologize for missing that clutch on your behalf, I hope it will never happen again. Here's the thing, though I have to admit, I just know a lot of people with that last name, so I let myself in like that. However, I don't know you have a maybe need to be satirical so you're asking me to say I answer questions with that or not who we are in front of a parent, I think things should be more serious because, as you know, people get performances, pensioners get responsibilities, parties get responsibilities, and some people want to run the same for presidents of these parties. But here's the thing when you ask if you'll support this law. Yes, we will support this law for the simple reason that every time anything is in favor of the citizens we will support it or whether you or HDZ suggest it or not or I don't know someone third, etc. But we would also like to warn you that this law of yours is not a solution, it is only a momentary delay in facing the truth. Another thing, when you ask if a second pillar should be nationalized? The answer is no, because we advocate that people can choose. So nothing would live wall if it were able to say you have to do it anyway, but people would have the option to choose who wants to go to the first pillar, who wants to go to the second column. And everything would be on a voluntary basis. And I guarantee you that these people we're talking about here in the Parliament today so that they all actually go to the first pillar and that speaks for themselves enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73548	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73549	Comrade Bunjac, you're actually right about this issue and you point to what some obviously can't see. If people realized how much red tape is working in these other pension, or supplementary pension funds, they would actually realize that they're swallowing an enormous amount of money that was supposed to go to pensioners for their pensions, but instead of their pensions, you said well they're going to Petrokemia, they're going to Agrokor. I wouldn't be surprised if the shipyards were going to capitalize, maybe let's say the Oilman with the pension funds' money. I wouldn't be surprised if they kept buying government debts that the state has no place to pay back. And not only that, but that's what I was explaining, even if we were to say 5% of the interest they make, even though there's no interest like that that would provide you with long-term safety, the pension fund's cost is 5% a year, minimum, 4 to 5%. Which means, assuming there's no loss, they didn't invest as noted by counterpart Bunjac in Ledo, Petrochemy, etc. But they did, which means that pension funds' incomes are actually negative and that people won't get more than they've invested more than they've invested. And that's how it's witnessed by people who retire whose pensions are less and less than they were supposed to be. So the projections were people you'd have bigger pensions. This was promoted when people entered the second pillar, and now they actually reduce their pensions and want to transfer all their losses to them, and profit taken from them. That's the model of this government. And that you said well, we will uphold this law because it is good for the pensioners but it is not a complete solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73550	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73551	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So we managed to get one piece of information during this debate, and it's very important that the public knows, therefore, that pensions are not inherited, or savings in the second degree of so-called. Savings are not inherited. If a man is entitled to a pension, or if he is 65 years old. If by chance he dies 65 years ago and has not obtained the right to retire then heirs have the right to inherit, but such citizens are far less than future pensioners. So we gave the pension funds 92 billion kuna, and so far they've paid off the savings of about 200 million, so they paid 0.1% of the money they got. I would also like to say that the money is in the first pillar and when the pensioner dies that money would remain a state and the state would use it to pay off pensions because it's dedicated. However, in a pension society when a pensioner dies, the money remains with that pension society, and it will not be used to pay pensions but will be used to pay bonuses to managers. She'll use it for vacations in the Caribbean, she'll use it to buy expensive cars, but she won't use it anymore to pay off those pensions and that's the point. They have to do business with profits, they have to have a percentage of it and thus the second pillar does not actually serve citizens, it ultimately produces losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73552	Thank you, too. Mr. Silvano Hrelja in front of the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73553	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I'm going to look back on this law, and then I'm going to comment on what's said in this debate because there's a lot of things being said, and by the way, it just doesn't stand. So, first, club GLASS and HSU will support this bill regardless of what he is sentenced to death, or they will not have a life because it is the government's decision not to accept it. We will support it for reasons because we think that something needs to be done for these 17 people most of the engineers and glassmen who have acquired the circumstances of the past system and retired, so, at age 55, they have achieved 45 years of retirement, so out of the 30 effective 45, they have been given a pension internship because their insurance rate is 18, 12, so by year they get a year-and-a-half internship, and according to the Law of Beneficited Employment every three years, their age-limits for retirement have been reduced and their age-limit has dropped from 65 to 55. And that's true that one part of them doesn't want to retire at this point because their pension, especially for engineers, is somewhere between 700 and 1,000 kuna, and from those who went into retirement in 2016. Even more important is the difference between their incomes of monthly wages and pensions and they calculate until something is resolved or as far as they can. So there are these 17 retired and their pension is definitely less. The truths for 251 pensioners from the second pillar of these 17 have a smaller pension and even though I know two people, two people who insisted that they want to have a pension based on their payment in the second pension column even though they had the right to choose they stubbornly insisted on taking a pension from both pillars and finally now that they realized no more return. It's about individual decisions. The truth is what Bunjac now said was that these 129 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had the right to vote because in 2002 they were between 40 and 50 years old whether or not they were going to enter the second pension pillar, it is not true that we know for these 230 to use a pension from the second pillar, and we do not know how many of them gave up their pension from the second pillar because this process lasts for them another 9 to 10 years. So they will have the right to have a total of 129 thousand to decide so far and from 2011 to today and 9 to 10 more years. Therefore, no one can speak and reason with the fact that all 129,000 of them will not take the second pillar. The privilege for those who use the second pillar today is that they had above average high wages or let's say the highest wages, and that is 3.6 times the salary than the average of the Republic of Croatia and they belong to the category of highest salaries. So they've reached a limit beyond which they can't, so the pension they're making from the second pillar is just above it. So that's the real truth about the current state of the second pillar. Of course, the second pension column has, we're going to have a lot of problems with it because of the low pay level, because we don't have the lowest pension for future two-steps, and we're going to have to have as a social category. We today have the lowest pension of 62 kuna times the year of internships for generation solidarity. And in 40 years, it's 2,580 kuna. Bigger than the average pension to be understood, because the average pension includes those pensions at the age of 15, 20 years, etc. But when we talk about that pension that's desirable for all citizens, which is 40 years old, and it's the lowest one that doesn't depend on what kind of employer he's ever paid or how much he's been lurking, so it's the worker who's protected or the insurance guy is protected, and in 40 years, the internship is 2 thousand 580. Someone's gonna say it's embarrassing. Someone's gonna say embarrassingly low. But when you figure out how much contributions were actually paid, then it's even more embarrassing the fact that the state failed to collect the contributions. And that we understand each other in this assembly once and for all, that when we talk about pension insurance systems, we can't talk about no entry, and the way out of them is unlimited. It creates rights either to build for years by paying off contributions to our right, or to raise money on an individual account in the second pillar of capitalised savings. This bill gives a slightly wider solution than I thought it would give or go into part of what the government will say I will, I won't. But in one part I quote Article 91. The Retirement Insurance Act, which states: “The insurance provided by compulsory pension insurance on the basis of an individual capitalised savings that has achieved an insurance internship in the period until the start of application of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, old age pension and early retirement pension is determined in a way that the part of the pension that belongs to him for the retirement period completed until that day determines that the insurance undertaking was secured only in compulsory retirement insurance on the basis of generational solidarity and the part of the pension that belongs to him for the retirement period of that day is determined as the basic pension.” So we have in that combined pension we have one part called pension based on generation solidarity and another part which is the basic pension plus savings in the second pillar. So nowhere around here does it say that a pensioner couldn't get 27% on just the part that was secured was in the first degree of generation solidarity. Accordingly, my colleague Peja and I also made a request for a credible interpretation of Article 2. The law on the supplement, and we think we're right. But now it's an initiative for the institute to end a credible interpretation at all, and we think we have the right to because it pays for those citizens, for example. from Germany receiving pensions from Croatia. Namely, when they exercise their right to retire there, they apply to them for 5 or seven years in Croatia and whether they only have a state system in Germany or have perhaps a factory register on the side that corresponds to our second pillar neatly to those seven years accounting for a 27% supplement. In this case, it doesn't count. And there is no need to be afraid of what is pointed out in the government's opinion, not to be afraid that for these adjectives and engineers the pension would be if even what Col. Mrsic proposed 27% on generation solidarity, so on the first pillar and 27% on the basic pension alone, their total pension would still be less, we calculated than if they had the right to choose in 2016 to retire from the first pillar. Why is that? Because I'm looking at this case, there's savings somewhere around 350,000 kuna, given that it's a hot plate of experience and that a person is 55 years old on those 350 thousand savings is only 750 kuna, if he's going to use that pension for life. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid of it. But it is the government's will to do what he thinks we should do here, we can't prevent it, but we also appeal through this law that we should do something at the beginning, not wait to gather 10, 15, or 50 thousand people who are this damaged because then it will surely have to be done because there will be political pressure because there will be some elections, and before the election is always done. Well, even Mrs. Jadranka Kosor installed an allowance to pensions from 4% to 27% before the elections in 2011, so it was before the election, so I'm just comparing logic. And the end of my presentation with the fact that we're going to give GLAS and HSU support to this law regardless of its fate, I'd like to correct some things. counterpart Miranda said that in 2007, the introduction of the supplement was a system disturbance. Tektonski disorder in the pension system was from 1.1.1999 because if the system was being listened to today, today the average pension would be 30% of the average salary, it is still close to 38%. And whoever's telling you that the harmonising formula is to blame for the decline of the average pension in the average salary is lying to you because the formula of harmonising improvements during our term of office. The reason why the decline in the average pension is on average is 240 thousand of the lowest pensions that we've been talking about for the last 25 years when we've allowed to have payouts without payment of contributions and everything we've messed up everything that's been messed up. Dear Mrsic, Parliament pensions have been ordinary pensions since January 2011, please don't put them out and let neither Mr Bunjac nor Mr Pernar hope for parliamentary pensions, they no longer exist. They are pensions under general rules, who has earned the conditions he, who is not, is not based on the Constitutional Court's decision, and by law we should all be left without them, yet cannot be retroactive again. And retroactively it can only be if they respect credible interpretation, then it could be retroactive. And one thing, Comrade Bunjac, is the pity that he isn't here maybe something from the elderly of us who follow something and learn because therefore years of monitoring the pension system and changes in the pension system are irreplaceable so that the known system can be known. A colleague of Bunjac apparently asked the pension funds if something was hereditary or not, but should have been asked in a pension insurance company that is the only one who is doing pension schemes to pay off pensions. And what they told him in the pension funds isn't entirely true. In fact, if someone dies before he starts using his pension, the money will return to the state only if there is no user of the family pension. But it's also with the first pillar. You've got people who've been making contributions for 45 years, he's retired for a month, he dies, and what about his birthright for 45 years, where did he go? He went to the state register plus. That's how it is with mandatory separation in the second pension column. Now, when you take that step of experience when someone gets a pension condition, then there goes a pension programme that becomes a legacy for not only through the use of a family pension but through the use of heirs, it becomes property. So I always said that saving in the second pension column is latent property or conditional property because it becomes available to family and heirs only when I experience the conditions for retirement and when I transfer my money to a retirement insurance company that pays off. Even so, they should lower their price of entry fees a little. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73554	Thank you for your accuracy, too, just for a second. First replica, Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73555	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrelj, you may have used in your discussion a word that is most important and that creates great noises in communication, which is an average word. Because when you take what the average salary is, let's wake up after the program, the stabilisation program in 93, so what was the average salary of 94, what was it in 2001, what was it in 2003, and what was it now in 2017, then you'll see that it's just impossible to put in the same basket. And by the basis of the Pension Insurance Act and the calculation of pensions practically what you received, you were paying off it's some sort of basis for calculating pensions, and then it creates a picture of the kind of pension that it is. Because in 2003, the average salary was 3,910, 2001. 3,500, and for 2017 will likely be when concrete data is obtained will be over 6,000. Now take just over the past 10 years what's the difference and you're just counting someone's average pension for the past 13, 14 years that they're getting, and not talking about, say, 90 years, that minimum salary for calculating contributions was 800 kuna. So we have something we have where it's very difficult to talk about relevant indicators. But what I said, we definitely have a problem, I talked about it, and while I was a minister and later as an opposition representative and as a representative of the ruling coalition. So, this second pillar is a visible problem that will reach Croatia tomorrow, and when we talk about pension reform in Croatia, then we have to consider it. And whoever doesn't take that into account in the long term opens up a big financial problem in the state budget. That's the facts. Why? Because someone at some point quite idealistic predicted that it would be possible to score 10% for the pension system and, for example, at that point, the government budget deficit was over 7%. Now you've got 7% of it from that system, but at that point, they weren't in the state treasury, they were outside, and they weren't looking at each other in a consolidated way through the budget. So, a lot, a lot of things to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73556	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73557	I agree with my colleague Shuker with you. I agree with you that we have a problem because a lot of the things that were supposed to happen in the projections didn't happen, and some things that weren't predictable at all happened. One of those things that we're talking about today, so it wasn't predictable that we're going to get caught up in this situation or this situation that people who have such a high-ranking internship in 55 make a full and old pension for me to be exact. It simply came to us, neither did this government count, nor was it the former coalition, nor did Oreshkovic's government predict such a situation. They just happened. Now, what's expected to intervene. And what awaits us in the second pillar analysis and how to get out of this situation is not a certain demolition. It's not safe to crash, because you well know as a financier if it would currently care to be an atomic bomb in Croatia. Something that survivors all together financially wouldn't. So, we can upgrade the second pillar, we can combine the rights from the first pillar, the second pillar, because in me, all three pillars of generation solidarity, individual capitalised savings and voluntary savings form one roof, and it's called the pension system, and none stand for themselves but are extremely connected. So where one ends, the other begins and vice versa. And we really need to think more about it and sit down and talk about what to do, not ad hoc making moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73558	Thank you. Mr. Sepan Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73559	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Hrelja, you said this well at the end of the day, we don't really need to make an ad hoc move. In your presentation, you compared those who retire by, therefore, who were born before 62 that they would have a higher pension even if we gave them now these 27% additions on those who had no choice. Why? Because they're at 15% 27, and they're at 20. But they're not here. This is about everyone else who comes in five years, in 10 years, because they're going to have a smaller pension. Why? In that difference of capitalised savings. So these contributions that someone over 30, 40 years has been paying into the second column that's been engrossed, let's say for one amount they'll be in a better position than the people who didn't have that right. And now there's a difference. Why do we now please one another at the expense of another? And then why don't we even it out for others? And then we question the whole system that we can't. And that's why it's really necessary, and it's good to argue because let's just say this is the last call that we have to, we can't push it under the carpet anymore, and that's where everyone put it and said when the time comes we're going to do it, so we didn't want to do it, because there are certain financial obligations. Because when everyone goes into that pension if we're going to give everybody 27 percent then the whole system is going to collapse, we all know that. And that's why it's good to talk about it because that injustice hurts, because someone who was born five days earlier or 61 at 12 months has 500, 700 kuna more than the one who was born three weeks later for the same job, for the same thing, for all the same benefits. Of course it can't be and there's got to be something to do. But I'm afraid, when we look at pro futuro for all the others who come here again, we'd be doing discrimination against them because all those who'd only have the first pillar would end up with a smaller pension than these combined, if that's what we'd stick to. Thus, not only from the first pillar but from both pillars that had to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73560	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hrell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73561	Dear colleague Curaj, I did not speak of their total pension being less than those who retired in 2016 from the aspect of this law than from the fact that they are young and that their period of experience is great and that what they saved is not so little 350 and how many thousands of kunas, but gives them so much money for such a long time. And look, we're gonna have to take that part into account, and I personally like you contact these people. Your fellow citizen is the one I have communicated with and he is indeed, every honour of praise to this law because instead of asking for only 27% per year in generation solidarity he also asks 27% on a basic pension that is relatively small and does not touch individually capitalised savings. But those people I contacted would be very pleased if we gave them what we were looking for through credible interpretation. It is only 27% per year of the internship made with payments in the first pension column on the principle of equal contributions and equal rights. So that's all they asked for. They are aware that they are relatively young and cannot give these 350 thousand to them 1,000 kuna pensions from the second pillar. So they can count. These are people who are very bright and would accept that first step. Of course, what Mrsic and the SDP Club are proposing would be better, and that is why we will support him. What's not going to work, it's another pair of freaks again, but try and help out, maybe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73562	Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73563	Thank you very much. From your mouths to God's ears, or to the ears of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who will probably become more determined than it has ever been. What I wanted to discuss with you was these stories that Bunjac gave to us here on and to the public who look nice or seduce the citizens that they are fighting for the rights of citizens, and in fact they are a distorted view of what they really are. So when we talk about the tables of experience or mortality, it's clear that for 93 years it's a little too long that pension insurance companies under pressure, I think the ministries will solve some things differently. But a colleague of Bunjac forgot one more thing, that you with a pension insurance company when you're retired can arrange a different period of payment of your pension from the second pension column. So, it's the first time you can plan for yourself how you want to get your pension paid unlike the first pension rate when your pension is split off one pension, whether you think you want to receive a pension 10, 15, 20 years, it's always the same. Here you can plan when and how much time you want to enjoy. That's the second part of the pension, so from the second pension column. Clearly, parliamentary pensions are no longer available, but they will continue to be paid out of the pension system, so they are part of the pension system. They'll be getting smaller and smaller, but they're still here, and I'm glad that we're our coalition government who proposed a law where there are no more parliamentary pensions anymore. As far as low pensions are concerned, they are the result of low wages. It is in our interest to raise wages and increase wages will be more pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73564	Thank you. Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73565	I thank my colleague Mrsic. I've been talking to the consummated employees recently who are on a minimum wage. Only managers who are 15 years old and over get 100, 150 kunas more salary and get to work on a Sunday hundredths. Three weeks of work, they get another 150 kuna up there. Such a pension will certainly not be won, such a salary will certainly not give a good pension even from the first pillar alone. Only if he's 45 years old then come on, let's say a pension of 3,000 equal to their current net salary. But such wages certainly cannot give rich pensions only from the first pillar, nor combined from the first and second pillars. Yeah, you're in first. After years of savings in pension funds, therefore where our latent assets are managed by pension companies, that money is capitalised and transferred to pension insurance companies. Here, I have an age-related, individual, life-long pension with a guaranteed period of time, temporary pension, shared with the guaranteed period of M5, increased over the guaranteed period of M6. This means that someone will decide to receive that pension and their savings in 10 years because they need it, and then you'll have to do something else. Life with a guaranteed period, disability pension. They're disabled programs. And if a colleague of Bunjac had asked the pension insurance company if it was an inheritance, he would certainly have received a different answer than he had from the pension companies because they only had to manage that money to turn it into bonds or shares and make as much money as possible to make capitalised savings as possible. Excuse me for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73566	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73567	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrelj, you said in your statement that this law should be supported. And I say yes, you need that support. We at HSS at the club support him. I also said that on the Legislatives Committee because the promoter explained nicely that this area of pensions from the benefits of work experience from special working conditions therefore have a well-favoured job experience in one law, that it is trying to correct the injustices. You have well noticed that it is better to deal with now while it is 17 cases or 19, and not that it accumulates 50,000 such cases, and it is certainly good to act as soon as the problem is seen even though this law will not solve all pension problems. And you said nicely that our average pensions in the Republic of Croatia are low precisely for those reasons that there was no payout, which did not pay our contributions, and that is why our pensioners carry this burden, and we should not. And especially when we know that this group that has a well-fused job internship on special conditions of retirement are people working on demining, and recently they protested in Mark's square because they haven't been paid their salaries and have low salaries. And those small salaries won't generate a big pension. Because of such and these people, it is certain that this law should and should seek solutions to increase pensions and reach not only the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, but also the purchasing power, the standard of living is falling. All citizens of the Republic of Croatia due to small salaries in the Republic of Croatia, and we see that the cost of living is growing, that food products have grown as I look forward to our family farms. But our pensioners have less and less purchasing power. Well, here we have recently heard that bananas have gathered, so our pensioners can't afford bananas anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73568	Thank you, too. Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73569	My dear colleague, well, I'm glad and there's nothing to change about what you said. I'd like you to have this happen. However, I would like to make further arguments on this that this needs to be addressed without delay. Look, I'm a witness to solving some of the problems in the pension system, and they're not deviating and they're not exacerbations. These are improvements, because when it goes in favour of the pensioners then it's an improvement. Oh, no? And when we passed the Retirement Supplement Act in 2007, it started with 4 to 27%. 27% get all those who retire after 2009 and 10th, respectively. And of course it's taken care of equating new pensioners. So retired after 1.1.1999 among them. They can't and they're still below 18% at least 18% of those who were retired before 1.1.'99. Because they also went up from 0 to 20%, from 0.5 to 20%, and they got into the basics of 100 kuna and 6%, and it can't be evened out because it mattered to us that the category of new ones would be evened out. Now we have a re-deviation through this part because there's a new generation that's necessarily going to the second pillar, a second pillar that we didn't predict, and it's going to be something that's going to increase every year. And that's why I claim that the responsible government, responsible MPs, responsible club representatives must respond and solve the problem while it's 5, 10 or 17 people, not waiting for it to be 500 000 like it was then.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73570	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73571	Dear Mr. Hrelja, the pensioner's problem will ultimately not solve this law, nor any other law that deals only with pensions. The problem of pensions can only be solved by changing economic policy which will create a larger number of jobs without a real exchange rate, without lower interest rates and without lower taxes, no more jobs. That's a fact. You've been in governments, let's say you were part of it, you've always been an agent, but you never talked about those problems. You never said ladies and gentlemen kuna is overrated 20%, so import products are cheaper, so domestic production is not worth it. You never said ladies and gentlemen because the CNB is a currency exchanger, because the money to citizens and businesses comes from either the fifth hand or the fourth, which is why the interest is so large. You simply look at the problem of pensions apart from the problem of real sector development and you've always talked about these pensions but you've never mentioned the cause of the problem and it's a serious problem, but it's not just yours. This whole Parliament. Everyone who sits and doesn't sit and isn't in favour of monetary reform is all part of that system, and they tell citizens they'll do better tomorrow. He wants the devil! There you go!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73572	Mr. Hrelja's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73573	My colleague Pernar, I do not pretend to understand macroeconomics as you do, and I do not listen to my colleague Lovrinović, nor my colleague Kulic with catastrophic announcements because life is always somewhere in between. I'm not saying that they have no right in one part, but it needs to be realized. So, I said in the expectation of Godo citizens of the Republic of Croatia, pensioners must live in order not to be wronged there are representatives to intervene. For many years now and for many years, our country's contributions from work have not covered pension expenses, and especially because everything has gone on board in the pension system. Therefore, we are struggling to demand for citizens' rights a budget from the tax system. That's what I've been fighting all this time, and you haven't even thought about it, and maybe you've been in the youth of HDZ, and then you're forbidden to think like you're thinking now, that you were at the time, that you weren't following the pension population and the problems at all, but now it's come to you because you see a new softness to get the votes of the pensioners. Because pensioners like all other citizens of the Republic of Croatia are very nice to listen to promises. So ask a fellow vice president and he's an ex-retired man, so he re-activated whether he was nice enough to listen to your promises. I think he's enjoying the presidency there. And we all enjoy listening to good promises. Unfortunately, they're unrealistic and I'll always advocate small shifts, and this is a small shift. But for those people, those 17 people are a big shift and all those who are going to be in that situation tomorrow. It's so vice president. [[Thank you. Very interesting, but time flies. Time flies.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73574	And we're done with the replicas. And now Mr. Stjepan Curaj will perform in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73575	Thank you, Vice President. I'm still gonna talk, not perform, but good. Okay, yeah. [[As far as I'm concerned, it's your call.]] All right, let's do a little depression and we can follow up here some shows that may not have anything to do with reality, they're more on their own. So are we going to start... or concentrate on what's our problem today, and what's going to be a big problem in five or more years when we start our regular pensions full or premature with the pensioners that's going to use it from both pillars. As far as the pension system itself is concerned, of course he is and we've heard it on such a truly limit of endurance several times because he actually stopped being what he was meant to start, so after the 1990s there was this kind of nationalisation and it was all transferred to the burden of the budget. But at the same time, the state took over all forms of then-owned ownership over its assets of the pension fund, which should have been tasked with just making certain contributions through various profits, to fill that fund with participation or rights under that property. And then we get into a situation where we change and the way we calculate pensions so it's no longer an average of the best ten years in the internship, but a total contribution, a total internship, and we get to the 27% pension requirement in the first pillar. What does that mean for citizens? That what you were paying for when a personal point is calculated and all states still add 27% to that amount to, of course, I'm saying there are limits and certain preferential pensions up to eight thousand kuna, and it's no longer accounted for. And now in all this comes a reform that predicts that we still lack that part of the dealings with those money that we abolished almost 30 years ago, 28, 27 so that we have a second pillar where that individual savings will be capitalized, and first 5%, so 10%, so ultimately it should be 15%. And if that were the case then these 27% would have already been lost in those going on full pension would have lost that big difference. Now we have a situation for some people who, under the privileged benefits of a job internship, have actually acquired the full conditions for retirement. And yes, that is an injustice, that should be clearly said, we are all aware of that and the Government and here authorized I will not say the motions but in front of the ministry the explainor in this case are aware and clearly said in their explanation that this bill does not give a complete solution. Why? Because now it would help 37 people or 17 people or those who would come would potentially endanger the entire system for hundreds of thousands and millions of people, and that is our responsibility and obligation. No, I mean no one here, and I wouldn't give anyone the right to say that this is one problem that doesn't have to be solved. We should, but we've heard again not at the heart of those future generations and not make new differences. Yeah, now if we put this 27% add-on to what they were paying until '99. By 2002, that first pillar, which was 20%, will again be less than these colleagues have, who left in '61. and less years in full retirement before they were not in the second pillar, but there will be no such difference and it will satisfy them and in that sense people are very correct and I have had opportunities to talk. But what about all those who retire from both pillars and do not have that supplement? They'll have a smaller one and we'll make a difference. Full pension-full pension, early retirement-premature pension, one group of people who has an underprivileged job internship has a bigger pension, the other has a smaller state not helping them. That wouldn't be the same thing. So we should consider a really comprehensive solution, I think it's unfair to stay and see, of course we're not talking now about everything we've heard here about wage growth, pension growth, that I'm saying that in 2000 it was the average minimum salary of 1800 kuna, now it's as big as it is, but 1300, 1200 that the cost of life has increased far, that it's not now what was 50 years, etc., etc. All of this stands, living is becoming more and more difficult especially for pensioners who have all or do not follow so many increases in pensions or reduction of purchasing power. But what is certain that can never be a pension as well as a salary, means mathematically impossible. You can't have 20% of something and then have 100% all the time, then we'd have to separate something else. So some of those phrases really couldn't stand. Of course, those who want to save extra or whatever form of savings is right and can, but unfortunately, our people have no place to go. It's easy to save when it's from where, unfortunately, it's not there now. What we ultimately accept is the government's argument, of course, but we also support efforts and initiatives and promoters to address this problem. I don't care if it could have been solved two years ago, five years, seven years or ten, it's only important to me now that these problems are solved and that in the future it is. And what I would go towards the ministry and this is what I have suggested earlier to find and find a solution how these people who will receive a visible lower pension than their colleagues who are one year younger and more, as the years go on in '61. and older to find and for them a model to be reckoned with and to get that difference somehow in the future pension under the future law, specifically said that the difference that they were now receiving less and that they would receive less to somehow get it back. And then we would have the most just solution when we achieve it, but of course given all those future pensioners who will retire from both of them to a regular pension from both or prematurely, but not according to the benefited internship from both pension pillars. We have heard a lot here about pension pillars or about the second pillar in particular and some things will really need to be regulated, but I think that the general view of the possibility and inheritance and a certain form of selecting the use again step forward shift than we have so far to man or die before he can even start using his pension, the money remains or is used by a very small number of years if we remove the possibility and family pensions and choose the one who is more favourable to those who inherit, or those who have stayed behind again... This at least gives certain opportunities to take advantage of that, so let's say in the ultimate line of savings as it is and therefore this way should certainly go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the HNS club will support the government's opinions with and let's say that in the mandate to really solve this problem because this is good for us to discuss it, that's what the secretary of state has said enough that already one, one person, has already been wronged. Well, it doesn't matter if it's 17, 27 and 37, and don't give God a bigger number. So we must do laws that must not bring any person into an unfavourable position and that must be as righteous as possible or if we can say justly just for all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that there's no difference, no law enforcement, and that we help one at a time in the future and reduce the justice of others. Of course you should see it all today,... This is how you talk when it's 37, tomorrow it's going to be 370 grand, and we have to think about how it's going to pay in the first place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why it takes exactly one whole solution that will cover it and that's why it may never have come to order because no one has a magic ball to know what it's going to be in 2022 when they go first or 2027 when it really goes in the full form of what it's going to be in the state treasury, or finance, and where we're going to be and how we can commit to it. But that's what's waiting for us and that's what we need to do as soon as possible. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73576	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas, that's good news. Mr. Mladen Karlić, individual debate, unfortunately he is not here. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, individual debate, unfortunately he is not here. Ivan Pernar, an individual debate, is fortunate to have him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73577	Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is very important, not because of political bickering, although political bickering is an integral part of this game that we all agreed to be participants. This debate is important for pensioners or their pensions. Whether people who were born a year or one day later or earlier will have a 27% lower pension even though they had the same job experience and the same salary or income during that job internship or were equally paid into the pension fund. This SDP bill is good in the sense that it allows these pensioners to receive an equal pension, i.e. they do not have 27% lower. However, the honesty of the one giving the law is tested in what way? It's being tested to see when this man or political party was in the position of government, led by, say, the Ministry of Labour, Social Welfare, etc., was a minister, part of the government. Did she then propose such legal solutions? The answer is that it's not. So the SDP could have easily solved this problem of these unequal pensions when they were in power by legal decree. But it's not. It is like a question of MOST where Strena-Linić is protesting against the floating LNG terminal now that they are in opposition and when they were in the government then Tomislav Panenić votes for a floating LNG terminal and represents it as a quality project. It is not a sincere opposition to, say, real estate tax when MOST is in the power of the HDZ vote for real estate tax and when it goes into the opposition now says we are against real estate tax. You SDP gentlemen have, for example, criminalized every marijuana possession, whether it's criminal or criminal. The fines are dragonous for those who have marijuana on them. Now that you've fallen into opposition, when you've lost power and now you want to not punish one section of the marijuana user, you're proposing the law. And you know there's not a majority in the Parliament that would accept that. But that's what you're told late Marko's coming to Kosovo, that's where you were while it was thundering. So we here in the Parliament have an unfettered opposition largely. I will never forget when the budget debate was then Bozo Petrov said that this budget now proposed for 2018 is no different from the budget of previous years which were not developmental or were the same as that or other words this one for 2018 is the same as before and for that reason I reject it. Then a colleague of mine and party president Ivan Vilibor Sincic told him but a colleague of Petrov, so you voted in favour of the same budgets that you are now criticising when you were in power. And it's a classic pain that those who could do something didn't do what they said they would. And now that the opposition's down, they're offering genius solutions. Nude, let's correct the injustice, let's do this, let's do that. Ladies and gentlemen of the SDP, you were in power, weren't you? As my colleague Bunjac said, it's like we're at the Mothermaker's house. The answer is yes. Could you correct this problem? Yes or no? The answer is yes, but you didn't want to. And I'll never forget talking to a SDP parliamentary representative when he proposed an amendment to the budget to buy I don't know any CT or MRIs at the Sibenik hospital, I don't know which one. And then he said I was particularly interested in how some HDZ representative would vote who, when the SDP was in power, proposed the same amendment to ensure it for the hospital. And as part of those raisers' hands, the ruling majority voted against his amendment, and then another SDP guy asked him, and how did you vote when she proposed the same amendment that you're proposing now and when you were in charge of the SDP. And he smiled, said I was against that amendment of hers back then. What I'm saying is, when someone proposes the law as part of a minority, and he was acting as a part of the majority, and he didn't do it until he could, all his solutions were farce. And I'll tell you one more detail, the main explanation of the Bridge why they didn't implement all the reforms they promised, and in reality they didn't do any in two mandates, their main explanation is that there was no time, or that they were giving the laws, but they didn't get to discuss it, but that's not true, and here's why. So who was the President of the Parliament if not Bozo Petrov, who decides on the agenda if not Bozo Petrov? He could have said here we have experts, we have concrete solutions let's propose bill proposals and he could have told the HDZ gentlemen, my laws will now be the first, I'm the power now, I'm the president of the Parliament and I'm deciding on the agenda, so we gave up the ministry. And a man would say that's a great thing ok you gave up the ministry to be president of the Parliament and to decide on the agenda. However, in what way did Bozo Petrov decide? Well, that's pathetic, ladies and gentlemen. And now that the Bridge has fallen into opposition as well as the SDP, now they say look, we have super bill proposals and they can now drop a thousand laws on the table. My friend, while you were in power, why didn't you suggest them, why didn't you put them on the agenda and suggest. Ladies and gentlemen. And another thing, the government bridge he was in because he didn't agree with her general policy, but with the human solution, Minister Maric bothered them. But I don't think it's a problem, man, it's not an individual problem, the problem is the wrong system. They could go change the system that they wanted, but they knew that the system neither wanted to change nor could change with HDZ. For this reason, they staged opposition to the system even though it wasn't in a way that they went to human level to kill someone and look for someone's head. In their first attempt, Tomislav Karamark's head flew off, which, thanks to the Mostovites, had become very likely past the time. But when they went after Maric's head, the question now is, who's past the time? Will the citizens once again give them support to do another attempt to say so, the governments, the authorities that dominate the form of content. So it doesn't matter what kind of reforms the Bridge is doing, it's important that the Bridgers sabotage at the personal level of HDZ. If Bridge had told HDZ you wouldn't have a tax on real estate, we'd be voting against it, then I'd have taken off the Bridge cap, but the Bridge didn't say that, the Bridge didn't do it. If the Bridge then said you're not going to work floating LNG on Krk and we're doing floating LNG we don't want to participate in the government, no they said we're great, we support this project, but we have a problem with some individual there. And what did Zdravko Maric decide? He was only in Agrokor one puppet who didn't decide anything as well as this government. And you all know what's worse doesn't decide Plenkovic either. Directives come from outside, there are volumes of paper coming from Brussels which are voted on by the emergency procedure of Malta not without debate. And that little debate that was and she's being liquidated. When it changes, let's say the Rules of Procedure are said to be of no quality, so here's when you make these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, don't you think it'll be better quality? Now we are in Assembly 2,4,6,8.9 with you chairing 10, do you think there will be more deputies? And you know yourself that 90% of the debate goes without debate, or within a few hours, two, three hours. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73578	Thank you, too. This one will continue a little while longer because Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73579	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Pernar, just before your presentation, presented a case relating to the introduction of amendments to the state budget regarding the acquisition of magnetic resonance for the Sibenik-Knin hospital, you said everything exactly. The truth was that I submitted the amendment in 2011 at the time to the budget, then my colleague Franco Vidovic was against it. Then he also did it to the state budget for 2018 in December last year and I was against it, but I have to tell you why I was against it. Because the magnetic resonance along with the entire 46m kuna daily hospital project will be provided for the Sibenik-Knin hospital and the signing of the contract will be on Friday. So the Sibenik-Knin hospital is going to get a magnet and that was why I didn't vote for that amendment because I already knew how that device would get citizens of Sibenik-Knin County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73580	Mr. Pernar, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73581	Dear MPs. I admire your possibility of predicting future events that you knew things that others didn't know what you were so top-notch about and it's possible that your decision to refuse it, you said I didn't know the CT or the MRI device a few years ago was motivated by the knowledge that in a few years that this device would come. It's one option, and the other option is simply that you were dishonest then, i.e. the great probability, or the meaning of my speech was not just to point out your behavior but in general. By the way, I've caught an example of that, but I'm telling you, the same thing when you HDZ gentlemen, if one day you're opposition, you're going to fight real estate taxes again. You understand? Now they're gonna say it's a bad thing, it's a bad story. That's the point of the story I was going to tell, and then when you come to power, then we introduce it and the same gentlemen from the SDP and the MOST who are now criticizing and attacking you and making some proposals tomorrow if they're in power and they're going to act like you now that you're in power. So we have a problem with unbelief and actually real politics. Neither HDZ, nor SDP, nor MOST already has you changing your policy and adapting depending on whether you are in power or not. It's the only thing and that's the saddest thing. Can you at HDZ today say you're against real estate taxes? You can't. It's all one upside down, it's the wrong system, and the wrong ones are the voters who support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73582	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Miranda Mrsic gives the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a thank you all for the debate. What we all need to remember when we leave this assembly today is that 20 people in Croatia, 20 citizens receive a pension that is 570 kuna less than they should be received and that it is now a year and 2 months. You should also leave with the fact that Minister Pavic said on September 22nd last year that the budgets are almost ready and that the problem will be resolved. The problem hasn't been solved in a year and two months. Within six months, we have not received a single parameter of how this problem will be resolved. And the third thing when you leave this assembly, know that 198 people have the right to retire, but they don't go to that pension because they don't want that pension to be permanently reduced by between 300 and 700 kuna. I note that these are people who work in dangerous jobs, so these are people who have the right to an underprivileged job internship. The largest number of engineers and any hesitation and inconceivable and people who continue to work with force of opportunity, because they simply don't want their pension to be less exposed to their lives to the deaths, lives and those passengers on trains that they drive because they have the right to that pension. Count out gentlemen from the government, State Secretary that you should allow these people to retire if they feel they need to retire because they have met all the legal conditions to retire. And let them enjoy that pension the way they want. Do not let legal restrictions keep them working even though they would like to retire, for they have the right to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73584	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Bill on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia. It means second reading, and then in the first reading of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. Thank you very much and goodbye! Session interrupted at 1700 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-06-0.u73585	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the add-on to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 195. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, whose adoption was not supported by the Government as well as by the parliamentary working bodies. I find that the proposal has not received a sufficient number of votes 41 for, 2 abstentions and 75 votes against, so this law has not been passed. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. First point: Final Proposal for a Law on Strategic Investment Projects of the Republic of Croatia, Second Reading, P.Z.E. Number 223. But before that, we have several requests for a break. First fellow Vesligai.
