ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65678	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most about the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65679	He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65680	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. We're still working on the old Rules of Procedure, so on that point, I'm asking for a break on behalf of the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA to talk about the situation in Brodosplit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65681	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65682	Thank you very much. Please pause on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65683	Stanka by 9.45, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65684	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I demand a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65685	Is there anyone else? No, 9.45. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65687	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On many occasions from this pay phone, I was talking about the problem of Brodosplit and through the parliamentary question, i.e. yesterday, on the topical I set in the diameter, also in writing, a few weeks ago to warn about the state of the most important industrial branch in Dalmatia, which is shipbuilding and also in Croatia. This is a very serious issue, where we Assembly representatives are reviewing reports that are orderly and which point to numerous anomalies, the accidental spending of state aid, as well as lending, non-intentional ones that are not invested in the development of shipbuilding. That's why we have the most professional personnel going from welders to engineers, designers, going to Korea, Africa, we're simply losing that industrial branch, which should be developmental. We are for the support of shipbuilding, because of the non-compliance of the contract, which was signed in 2012, I don't know, nor did I get an answer from the diameter yesterday, which the held bodies took, after several of these state audits, which we are simply discussing. In fact, all the bodies have taken over and whether the Government intends by its silence or by pilot washing hands, from the state of the shipbuilding site of Split, essentially, to wash hands of this problem and to wait for a report by the European Commission, which will simply say that the conditions for support are not met. As I said about the Split shipyard according to the State Review report in continuity, for many years it points to organisational and human resources, that no organisational and personnel restructuring is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the privatisation contract. The financial report of the shipyard is not credible, the state audit told us, the parliamentary representatives here, it also told the DORH, however, the fact is that the Shipyard Split, as the owner of their non-respecting contracts, and we are now at the edge of that simple people and that end mainly Dalmatia, which depended on the shipyard for comparison from the Dalmatian mountain, was leaving 60 buses, the morning would light up, in the morning, 6 hours, which went to work, and today only 2 vans leave. Therefore, as a centuries-old tradition, Croatia that has shipbuilding, we have to ask ourselves why the competent institution is not doing anything, which is why money is given, unintendedly being spent, which we give as state support, that people must hear and of course that one company that employed, industry 7,000 to 10,000 people, today has fallen to 2,000 people and these people today are afraid. These workers are afraid for their future, because simply when there is no state support, they will have to leave, and we cannot provide state support unless they invest in shipbuilding. This needs to be seriously discussed, so we need to focus policy on the development of shipbuilding, not on purpose providing state support. Tax taxpayers' money, for shipbuilding, and it's not really about shipbuilding. The contract required 7.14 ships to be made, so I publicly ask the owner and, of course, the competent authorities, the crossing, the economy minister, how many so far the ships have been made. We need to know that the 8 prizes of the Split Square, the shipyard, the world's, have won for the best built ships. So, we had people, as a major resource, we lose these people, our workers from Croatia can't get a job, we import cheap labour, so these support while they last, this story will last. Credits from via HBOR are granted which are simply not spent on what the contract was signed for. Therefore, I call on the government, the diameter of Plenkovic and all institutions to protect the jobs in Dalmatia, because what it means is the square, Brodoplit, for Dalmatia, for the development of Dalmatia, for all of Croatia, to simply stand by and finally start the shipbuilding. Because if people, experts, go to other countries, and the fact that they've already dried up, which is worth it in Korea, Ireland, Africa, the shipyard, theirs, I don't see any reason why I can't work in Croatia with a century-old tradition. Once again, let's save Brodosplit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65688	Thanks, buddy Bull. The second is the esteemed colleague of Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65689	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to refer to the presentation of my colleagues, Bulja, who spoke about Brodosplit, so I would like to briefly recapitulate the privatisation process of Brodosplit, which lasted since 2010. from Samobor, who had a share capital of 20000 kuna. In view of this, the Privatisation Commission of Brodosplit rejected the offer, due to a proven financial inability of the buyer, to realize the construction of its own fleet, and to implement the restructuring worth all together of about 6 billion kuna. Despite the fact, the new government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of Zoran Milanovic, in 2012, annuls the commission's decision and decides that Brodosplit will be privatised, a direct settlement with the same giant from Samobor. So a shipyard worth several billion kunas surrendered to a company that had 20,000 kuna. So, please note the fact that in Croatia someone with 20,000 kunas can become the owner of the shipyard. I would like to say that the person who allowed such a settlement and who signed that privatisation contract was HNS President Ivan Vrdoljak. In addition, it was agreed that the state of the company which has 20 000 kuna of fixed capital would provide state support of one billion and a half kuna and that, among other things, the state would participate in restructuring costs and that the state would pay compensations, which is truly incredible because all these costs were to be borne by the buyer. Since the new administration had no financial, therefore the basis, but no expertise to manage a shipyard such large it has failed in the last five years to make any of the 14 ships that were scheduled and also no ship from the restructuring programme. Among other things, Brodosplit failed to build ships that had already been ordered such as ships of Dutch partners or Russian partners. At the same time, production dropped by more than 90%. Total income fell by more than 40%, and the loss of Brodosplit is measured by new hundreds of millions of kunas. The state had to pay €220 million out of budget money for severances to the workers of Brodosplit, and even though some 1000 left Brodosplit paid for 3,000 severances, it is not clear how this disproportionate happened. Currently, only 1,500 workers work in Brodosplit, and that was once the pride of the whole of Dalmatia and the pride of all of Croatia, one of which has nothing to do at all and is practically coming to work only in order. In view of such poor conditions and the wages that are systematically reduced from Brodosplit, he went almost all middle management and the vast majority of qualified workers. All of these irregularities, illegalities and crime have long since been brought by the State Review, which, therefore, counted correctly, and among other things has been notified to the DORH, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, the Government, the CERP, even the European Commission and many other institutions. Unfortunately, to this day, there is no concrete movement regarding Brodosplit, and Brodosplit has completely disappeared from the world's shipbuilding market. In the privatisation process, therefore, there is a reasonable suspicion of committing serious crimes such as fraud, Article 236. Penal Code, Subsidy fraud Article 258. Penal Code, illegal bargaining Article 292. Penalty law and many others. In view of the difficult situation and the obvious failure that follows Brodosplit, if this situation continues, that is, company management we propose that an emergency termination of the privatisation contract be made under one. Two, that the government of the Republic of Croatia is protesting 50 million kuna guarantees. Three, to establish criminal responsibility for all actors before and after the privatisation of Brodosplit. And four, to develop the concept of the survival of Brodosplit in collaboration with other shipyards in Croatia. Unbelievable that Croatia as a maritime country so little to worry about the Adriatic orientation. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65690	We're going to a third debate, a respected colleague of Mrak Taritash on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65691	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I will not be attached to my colleague Bulji and my colleague, Bunjec. I'll probably do it by my colleague Sanader, but I'll talk and talk to this pay phone about something else. 151 MPs were elected in this assembly. We're all different from 151 people, we're different backgrounds, we're different educations, we're different ideas. But we all have something in common, and it's common that when we're chosen, we're chosen with the idea, it's our job. We're talking, we have a chance to talk, we need to talk, and we need to talk about the topics that bother us whether from the scene or from this pay phone. In the context of this, we have opportunities in the newspapers to hear that something is going to change, so while we still have a chance to talk, I would talk about something that is extremely important to all of our citizens, and somehow in the context of other problems going under the radar. The other day on Vir, which is usually a symbol of illegal construction in Croats, and when we talk about illegal construction then we talk about the Vir, there was a dissection of real estate that, the people who bought it did not properly spend it in the catastrophe and grantovnica, and the grantovnica in that part was not even there. And all of a sudden it turns out that they're left without the real estate they bought neatly, because of the debt that their predecessor made. And I don't mean to scare our citizens or anyone else. I think just from this pay phone just to warn the fact that you're taking care of your real estate, make sure that it's adequate and that everything is carried out in the cataster, that everything is carried out in the garter, because otherwise this isn't going to be one unique case. So that's what our obligation as citizens is to do. However, there is a commitment of the state, and there is a obligation for us MPs when certain laws come into practice, that we either ask that some laws be rushed or that we warn or let us tell my people we have a problem. And we in Croatia have a problem. We have a problem that our properties aren't properly recorded, we have a problem with the unsettled cadastre, the garland and the dead are cold about it for years, we say it's messy. And what are we doing? Life goes on as far as cases like this. Unfortunately, this certainly won't be a case. But these cases warn of another fact. You know, they all say that we all remember from session to session and someone who deals more with both the PR and everyone else says that voters actually remember lately. I would remind you of the debate that was held in this assembly and it was about the real estate tax. That's when we warned about this fact. The question is, who would pay taxes on, say, that property? Would tax have gone into effect on the real estate that was the subject of the confiscation and that's why everything went up,... those who are the real owners or the one who owns it before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we are talking about reforms, while ruling talks on the reforms announced for 2018, we are talking about attracting investors. There won't be and won't be until the message we've given that we haven't been able to take care of our cadastre and our garter, that we haven't been able to arrange it. And actually when you're buying real estate, you don't know whose real estate you're buying. Similarly, what I want to say from this pay phone is, according to absolutely accurate data in Croatia, 5.7% of the construction area, in these building areas with them that work entrances and roads, so everything that has been changed on the ground. I don't see the problem, and I really think what needs to be of interest is that the 5.7% construction area is being settled because it's going to be a certain way of security for our citizens and in this debate is actually an introduction to the law we're going to discuss today and which is in the first reading, it's about the Law on State Property Management to make state property so that the state and its assets can manage to know what it has. Citizens know what it has and the message is take care of the papers and the message is to allow us all the laws to be both simpler and faster than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65692	Thank you. And we're going to the last club, it's HDZ and the esteemed Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65693	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, during the current clock yesterday, questions were asked to the prime minister and the issue of the Oilies and the problems of the Oilman was updated. And I'm sure it's good to talk today through this current part of us about the Split shipyard. Because the same problems that plague the Oilman tortures Split. Namely, the two models were different privatisations, one is this Split place where Split Shipyard was privatized, i.e. taken over by private, the other was in Ulanik where workers and management took over the shipbuilding site in Uljanik. And there were good indications that the Oilman was going in the right direction. However, here yesterday we heard here and the public problems of Uljanik, the same problems practically have a shipyard in Split. And this privatisation that was made in Split obviously failed. And the fact is that for the revisions, as it is said here, that the audits made observations, that I was informed by the trade union, our Splitian and that the DORH institutions are familiar with these problems, but the obvious state of the world shipbuilding market is too complicated or very difficult to break through. The number of ships that were built in both this and such competition towards the eastern Chinese shipyards was reduced, and our ships were hard to deal with, so that the smuggling in Split and Uljanik came into the same problems. Surely this moment is too important, the shipyard in Split was a symbol of the economic power of Split and the number of employees in the shipyard, and a particular number of professional workers, highly qualified professional labour force, meaning engineers, technicians and people who carried this shipyard and we boasted with the most successful ships in the world built by the Split Shipyard or our circus, popularly called for every pride. However, today we are in a situation where this shipyard is very difficult to break into the world market. And here, I think what happened with Agrokor, something similar is going to happen, and the sign goes to what happens to Uljanika, that is to say, in the square in Split. So here, it must be an appeal to try to do everything to save those shipyards because the power of the shipyard and the power of the economy is the power of a society. So this difficult state in which they are at the moment we need to see here what can be done, how much can be included in this House, that is, our working bodies to try to find a solution for smugglers, which is not easy and it won't be easy because I say competition on the world market is too big and this is an important problem for us. So here is some and this topical and this problem that we have opened here today is the introduction to looking for a solution for these two largest shipyards on the Adriatic, which I repeat will not be easy because the problems are big, the competition world is big and it is very difficult to find its place and role in that world-wide ship-building market. So here I am, on behalf of our club, certainly joining in solving this problem and looking for a solution and trying to try to help these smugglers through the most important institutions of society and systems, but certainly not allow all these incentives to be directed towards survival and not to develop shipbuilding, which is most important at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65694	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65695	Mr. Pernar, good afternoon. You raised your hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65696	I'd like to request a recess on the late payment to the cooperatives at Third May Shipyard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65697	And how much do you suggest there should be a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65698	It'll be five minutes as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65699	How about now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65700	I'll do it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65702	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, although it seems that the problem of non-payment of wages in Ulanik is a problem that came up yesterday, the truth is that the problem with non-payments of salaries in Ulnik began much earlier, and it began as soon as the cooperatives didn't start paying off, when the salaries were not paid by the cooperatives. Let me give you a picture of that. Since the 9th month, many cooperatives have not received salaries. And it's the same modus operandi. And now what's going on? In Third May Shipyard, too, so they started to be late for the payments of the cooperatives and now you're probably wondering, but what makes you see the crisis already here? Because for the past four years, the shipyard received a subsidy from the state and it was a transitional deadline. In that transitional period, the Third May Shipyard could function and could meet its obligations, but since the beginning of this year it means from 1.1.2018 the shipyard will no longer, or has no support from the state. And without this state support, the shipyard will not be able to function, i.e. we will find ourselves in the same situation as in Uljanik, i.e. we will find ourselves in a situation where delays towards cooperatives will grow and at some point will begin to delay salaries for the workers themselves, i.e. employees of the Third May Shipyard itself. And for this reason, I call on both the Government and the Prime Minister not to react only when wages are stopped to pay the workers, when the strike situation appears, but to start working today, to start looking for a solution for Third May Shipyard to avoid the situation we have today in Uljanik. And in Ulanik, we have a situation where workers are desperate, they come to pay their loans, they come to pay their bills, they pay their dues, they pay their dues. Of course, they don't have a place to deal with, and they don't know what's the worst when they can. There you go, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u65703	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67353	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work, the first point today is: - Proposal for a law on state property management, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 256 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us the Minister of State Property is a respected Goran Maric, please. ... [[You can't hear it.]] And now we can go back to the agenda. I urge once again respected Goran Maric, Minister of State Property to give an additional explanation of the proposal for a law on state property management. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67355	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here is the Law on State Property Management, and when it comes to the property's relationship to the property mirrored the state because as we treat our own property, so we treat our own state. I have said several times in public that if one word only associated us with a relationship to state property on an institutional and subjective relationship with state property, that my first association would be abandonment. When I went deeper into this problem, then my first association was bizantism and then even more wastefulness. And why is the relationship to the property important? Because property and crazy are the fundamental attributes of the state. Without property and people, there's no state. The existing legal framework has proved to be unspeakable, ineffective, lifeless and actually dysfunctional. This best illustrates the state of state property, the state property managed by the State Department. No contracts, no invoices. Where it was invoiced, there was no charge. Thousands of illegal users and hundreds of illegal users. In order to give just a closer picture one, here at the center of the bank, one business space, in the heart of Zagreb 125 square meters, it is empty for years, which can be rented at least for 20, 30, 40 000 kuna per month, stands empty for years, and after it is apparent that a one-room apartment is private where the neighbor penetrated the wall of the opening of 2.5, 3 meters, 3 meters, and connected it with that business space to himself. It's just one picture, it's all almost Croatia. Why hasn't anyone reacted for years, that's another thing, but we've finally responded, we've overloaded, we've separated both central and central and heating and electricity, it's all together, it's all in the same number. Everybody knows that, and nobody's done anything about it. I think it's also a felony, even though I'm not a criminal expert. There are such works and misdemeanors all over Croatia, and this is an image, but this area will soon be in the competition, and offers are coming. And even the situation with apartments, garages, and islands, cottages, celebrities. A total of one powerlessness and one chaos. That is why it was necessary to approach the creation of a new law that would replace the existing law and it had passed the most serious procedure. We are preparing for 10 months, through a public debate in June last year, and more than a month ago delivered to the Croatian Parliament. So one may even be an unusually good procedure. It was open to all suggestions, there were more than 200 suggestions in the public debate, most of them were accepted and any suggestions that came from no matter who or what made the law better and clearer, more effective, it would be not only considered but also accepted. In the task force were all relevant, all involved, no one was excluded who was in some way in contact with this, from institutes, colleges, academic community, all ministries, DORH, trade unions, employers. Everyone was involved and everyone could and contributed to this law. The main changes affecting the existing though confusing when the State Property Act is said, then it is thought that the State Property Ministry is managing its state property. No, the State Property Act only manages the assets or works of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, if we were to manage all the assets then we'd have to change all the other laws but that's impossible, then we'd have to manage both foreign reserves and forests and water and objective defence ministries and everyone else's and that's impossible. Therefore, the concept of what assets will be managed by the Ministry of State Property is clearly defined, and one of the biggest changes is to remove the Committee on Real Estate and the Committee on Strategic Society. It may be appropriate, in a certain period, to some structure or institutional framework, to the needs of society, but as circumstances change, although these commissions have not proved effective or effective enough, this proposal is that they are abolished because it is both unnatural and non-lifeless and inconclusive that the commission decides instead of the Government, that the commission decides instead of the ministry, to transfer the powers of the ministry and the Government to the Commission. And just not to say how much and what it looks like, for example, one activity done by the Committee for Strategic Society. The resolution ministry is proposing to the state property ministry that a tender be opened. The Ministry of State Property writes the text of the tender, has to send a resolution ministry to agree on a resolution ministry with the text, and sometimes it takes months to agree. Only when the resolution ministry agrees on the text will the Ministry of State Assets announce the tender. And then the competition can be for board members, supervisory boards, companies, and then there's a competition, talks. And when the Resort Ministry, says who is proposed by the Committee for Strategic Society or the selection of a member of the administration, the President of the Administration, then the Ministry of State Property, on a proposal from the RES, forwards the Committee for Strategic Society, which is sitting and then forwards the proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And it takes months, instead of the restoring ministry proposing solutions to the government, as this law now provides. So, the resolution ministry will propose everything from its section, directly to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Likewise, the Real estate commission, will not make decisions instead of the government, the increasingly important decisions will be made by the government of the Republic of Croatia, and those of lower value will be made by the Ministry of State Property. It also changes the legal framework compared to the camps. So far, the four authorities of the state administration have managed the camps, depending on where the camp is located, and that also resulted in one situation that cannot look like the biggest one I can say for sure an economic defect when it comes to the impact on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to interest. And by amending the law, we will allow other camps, no matter where the Ministry of State Property is run. There were yesterday words that these camps should be managed by the local self-government unit, so there are also Croatian forests managed in part. Imagine when you read, the text of a contract for a camp, which says, that the owner, by chance, of a company that is from a neighbouring country, will receive a camp for use, long-term size 100, 200 thousand square meters by the sea for the reason he uses, to collect leaves and dry branches and not pay any compensation for years. Here, such contracts were, and I hope, that when this law comes into force, that such contracts will not be possible at all, no one will even sign, let alone exist. Of course, there have been camps where no one has ever paid a dime in years and still has. The state property ministry in last year turned out to be a invoice for 7 camps, 6 million kunas. In the last year alone, 25 years ago, no... It also changes the concept of a strategy, i.e. a deadline for the adoption of a strategic plan, for the management of state property, which was foreseen for 4 years, is now at 7 years because I come about the strategy, it contains the foundation of a set which is long-term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can't talk about long-term, if it's a minimum of 4 years, it takes 7 years. The composition of the CERP Governance Council in Article 26 is also foreseen, and we have also raised one illogicality, that the Minister, responsible for energy, is not at all in the CERP Governance Council. It is now 7 ministers in the CERP Management Council and are no longer state secretaries, i.e. deputies, but ministers, to give even greater importance to the decisions of the administrative... the Board of Directors of CERRP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law stipulates that no one can sign a sublet and sublet on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, by analysing 800 used spaces in the City of Zagreb, it is almost not for any user to have a contractual relationship with the Republic of Zagreb. Almost all users either have no contract at all, or have a business cooperation contract, with those who, in some other way, may have wrongly entered that business space. So I think it will be introduced with this amendment quite a foundation, all decisions will be an assessment of the court's expert and public tender and public announcement of all decisions made by the ministry. I also saw signs that the Ministry of State Property would not keep a register of their property. That title isn't right. The Ministry of State Property will keep records of the assets it manages, and it is in the making of both the parallel and the Central Register Act, which will run all the assets of the Republic of Croatia, which will run the Central Bureau of Digital Society and where all rightholders will enter the property into that central register and the property managed by the Ministry of State Property will be an integral part of that register. This law solves a non-annual one, but literally the 27-year-old problem of apartment owners, who bought flats on land from which a local self-government unit was sold, and this land was bought by local self-government units, by someone else and entered as owners. The fee turned out and there are cases all over Croatia, that it owns the land on which these buildings were built, these apartments, ownership of the Republic of Croatia, and then no one is aware of who is suing, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, Republic of Croatia and towns. This law allows for a solution to this, and why this happened, it is most often known about the question of land that did not enter the core capital during the conversion and privatisation, and then the cities were registered or the municipalities, which was built on buildings and buildings. It was subsequently found that it was not in core capital, it became the owner of the land and then sued the city, residents sued the municipalities, guards they bought from. These apartments can't be mortgaged now, they can't be registered, and that's at 1,000 such apartments, this bill will finally solve this problem. Otherwise, the units of local self-government and regional self-government receive many properties in their territory through this proposal of law, which took place on 1 January 2017 in the nature of schools, homes of health, hospitals, graves, monuments, parks, playgrounds, sports-recreation facilities, sports playgrounds, social homes, firehouses, memorial homes, markets, all markets in all municipalities and cities of the Republic of Croatia will become the property of these municipalities and cities of the Republic of Croatia. This will finally make a little bit of decentralisation in the work, which means constantly and persistently insisting on local self-government units, and we think it's a good proposal, and here we'd like to see this proposal come to life and come into effect. This law goes in two readings. First reading and serving to hear all opinions, to record and write all objections, to remember, to think about them and to make all that will improve the legal framework to be accepted. But I guarantee this law is not a law of encrypted intent. This isn't party law, this isn't ideological law, this isn't a law of interest or cartel law. This law is not a product of lobbyists, it is systematically prepared and gives an answer to doubt whether we are going to take a serious step towards property or not. We need to change the relationship so far, but we also need to know that one law cannot affirm, anti-cipirate, and other laws obstruct and disable. We therefore prepare two laws at the same time, it is the Law on the rental and purchase of business space by amending that law and preparing to amend the Law on Tourist Land because it is so, it was passed, I think, 6 7 years ago but did not result in almost no effects or effects so that it must be changed. But we also need to emphasize a few things when someone usually says so that there's a million squares near the sea, by the sea, and it's been 30 years, no one, what kind of ministry is that it's impossible to activate. I'm talking about those other laws right now. We are prohibited from the availability of real estate in an area where there is no limit to maritime goods. The maritime goods border is not determined by the Ministry of State Property, but it is still wondered how it is not prohibited for a natural person to dispose of the property until, and no border of maritime goods has been established, and no competition has been announced, but to sell to a neighbor, friend or someone unknown or to an investor, and the Republic of Croatia cannot sell its property and the same limit of maritime goods has not been established. A completely unnatural relationship, an unnatural attitude. If one particle is in where thousands of particles are in return, the return has not yet been made, the verdict has not been reached, the lawsuit has not been resolved, all hundred million squares have been blocked. So the situation is too complicated in many places. Not to mention deposed land, not to mention legal disputes and different court practices. In the same place, in the same location, courts differ in judgments. There's a return in the money somewhere and there's a return in nature. So I think for an even more serious step, we need to change many other laws. We will therefore amend the Law on the rental and purchase of business premises and the Law on Tourist Land from the Ministry of State Property, and we have agreed with the Ministry of Tourism to prepare it together and it is already in preparation. It's an impression and I still have to say it because of these other laws, I'm making an impression because it's not just an impression with me, but it's practically proved to be so, but I'm telling you that the impression that in the Republic of Croatia property is less protected than illegal property. And that's one huge... In a better position, he's a formal illegal owner than the owner, and we all have to ask ourselves that question and see how to solve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When the Republic of Croatia finds out someone broke into her property, then we get a claim for trespassing. And we're blocked. You know how many there are? Thousands. That's why so far they're reapers who haven't sown and where they haven't sown. By applying this law, I hope that this practice will stop and that this law will be against such practice. I understand in advance any interest in improving this law and this curiosity and thinking will be seriously included in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67356	I thank the minister. We've got 17 replicas, our first turn is Comrade Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67357	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, Mr. Minister, I have two specific questions for you, so I would kindly ask for an explanation. The first is why you do not transfer through this bill the conceptual land within the general urban plan to the ownership of local self-government units. Secondly, I would like to ask the reasons for Article 68 in particular of the provisions in paragraphs 5 to 9 of which, of course, if I read correctly, all units of local self-government which, at the time of the availability and tender for sale of land, have been registered as land-book owners now under this bill, I repeat, if I have to read well, the revenues to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67358	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67359	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative in the first part of your question reminds me of that story about fingers and hands. Why? If only one finger is enough, why not the whole hand? As for this second part, the legal framework provides for a solution to this problem. In this way, with financial compensation on a long-term basis. The Ministry of State Property is willing to consider a different option, but we must get agreement and other institutions first of all the DORH. And if the DORH agrees with this different modality, we will accept that proposal. However, this is exactly the definition that is in line with the DORH. I understand this problem very well, and it can be solved in other ways, i.e. by a little change of these provisions, but this is how it is foreseen. If it succeeds in finding the definition that it is possible without financial compensation we will consider that possibility until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67360	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67361	Dear fellow Maric, I congratulate you on your brutal honesty, but all these smoke curtains. I've been listening to this for years. Who will come to the country where 5% of the land data is correct? And for years! I listened to Miss Taritash's presentation yesterday. So you were all part of those two parties sitting here, longer in power than Saddam Hussein was. Yesterday I listened to Mr. Tolusic here and he's talking about the chaos in agriculture, that 2.5 million kuna was spent, nothing was digitized. You have 114 employees, don't you, in your ministry, I think. This digitization office is 47. What were you doing for 20, 30 years? When are we going to ask the right questions that's the first question? How is that possible? And we're still here today, we're like Guatemala just have more color television. And there's a better situation with land books. What's that bridge saying? This other character, and when did they talk about it? What's causing these problems? Who adopted social property. They're sitting here, they're stealing. What's in that chaos when you prescribed social property into this in private, etc. How many unions did they steal? SCOY-Ewes? One sitting here has 13 apartments in Zagreb, is a great man for human rights, a fighter. What about SuBNOR, KPH? Where's the database? How many people were taken away from their property? If you don't know how to work, hire a private company that is totally independent of former communists, SCOY-Eviets, UDBA-shima. As it's possible for people to copy into other people's particles, it's unimaginable out there. You have a system, you have geodetic data, you have satellite footage and you get a PIN and no one can do St. John the Baptist rewrites to my land. And we're sitting here telling ourselves fairy tales here. And when we end up saying that the cause of all this is a criminal organization called KPH, communism where the total concept of private property has been annulled. And that's where the heirs sit... [[Intruder President: Time of fellow Glasnović.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67362	Comrade Glasnović, you've been through a lot. Replication response. Yeah, yeah, minus 13 seconds was over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67363	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Glasnović. A little of what you've been saying is about the case and a concrete bill, so I can't accept one comment on how to improve this law. But I understand your position, I understand your observations, and at least, not least, I have nothing to do with what you're talking about, about former communists not personally but in the tenth generation. Thank you very much. ... [[/Intruder Glasnović, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67364	Comrade Glasnović, please. Now it's my friend Bulj's turn. Third replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67365	Thank you very much. Ministers, I would agree that the government of powerlessness and chaos in the matter of state property, that in privatisation, of course, and war profiting, a lot of things ended up where it shouldn't have ended. But here's what I'm going to do for a while. I'm going to comment on article 69. You state that under the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in the field of local self-government and regional self-government units, much can be entered. However, not valuable property such as former military facilities, military facilities, and you listed health homes, graves, parks, which is mainly owned by regional self-government. And these military facilities become and former military facilities become mostly a communal problem because of these unresolved property-legal relations, and local self-government has no influence and cannot plan to build something. Therefore, I would ask you in the first reading to include it necessarily in the second reading, a good thing that goes in two readings. And another very important thing asked you DUUDI, so far he's had a million kunas, to decide up to a million kunas in state property. However, you have raised yourself to 7 million kunas with this law, with the appraiser and you determining. First, you estimate up to 7 million. So you've raised by 6 million, your right to state property and the possibility to be used and related ties, the possibility, I say, as in the case of Brodosplit, the building, excuse me, Brodomerkura in Split, that famous subject, and you know what this is about. So why did you increase yourself to such power, Pharaoh's literal authority, from one million to seven million? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67366	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67367	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Bulj, when it comes to Art. 69. and the facilities that are scheduled to... The unit of local self-government, you mentioned military. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Most of the barracks have not been cleared of property legal relations. Until property legal relations are resolved, it is impossible to dispose of the property. Secondly, in most military matters, there is no business plan intended at all. Until the local self-government unit determines the purpose of the business plan, it's impossible to dispose. And when the unit of local self-government, has purpose and demands, then the Ministry of State Property will react. As far as your remarks are concerned, I can only say that yesterday at the debate, on the Committee on the Regions, who was, I think that Mr Batinic, in particular, I will say that I am not making it up, I said that he is surprised that he is not more authorised by the Minister, because every director and every head of the municipality has more authority, I'm sorry I haven't seen you, he has more authority than a minister. And why is it 7.5 million kuna, because it's mostly technical stuff. For example, when, for example, the ministry secondly concludes a purchase contract, i.e. a lease contract at 5 years on the use of 5,6 thousand squares, the Ministry of State Assets agrees. We are covered by such demands, because we need to see that there is no accident of the Ministry of State Property, has insight all over Croatia whether there is a replacement and should be allowed, if there is no such business space available, to get consent on the lease, then such a contract crosses 6.7 million kuna... buried with it, so that's why it is, and as far as [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The court warlocks, they are all in a public tender elected and only by public procurement are determined by the court's expert, and is not determined by the minister. [[Intruder: Thank you Minister.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67368	Thank you. My colleagues and my colleagues and the ministers, I'm asking you to hold on for two minutes, we're starting to get out of deadline. Prepare exposure, so it'll be 2 minutes. Let's go now, Comrade Orepic, you're 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67369	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Who is responsible for this situation we are currently in is simply a matter to deal with, but we need to move on. That is why I welcome this kind of law, which includes this law, which solves specific life problems. And I support those efforts that go that way. In particular, I would like to support and give some kind of affection for abolishing the Committee on Strategic Society and Real Estates, you have said it well and briefly, have not served anything. There, too, is something that you would single out, because the solution to the inability of sublets, that would give a suggestion, if it's possible to see some kind of retroactive relationship and bring it into line with that tendency of the law in the future. Also fellow Bully mentioned military facilities. Military facilities are one area of exceptional importance, it can be for local units, self-government, so it should add effort, invest, to try to solve in the same way as those objects that go to the local self-government unit. I mean, a whole series of these objects, which are literally mockery, here, near one place where I often go to the sea, when the litto, Gradac, we have 17 resorts and that's just terrible. And I call in that context to solve it. However, what I would like to point out and draw attention to, which is the resolution of ownership relations. I'm interested in which direction, where the tendency is in this problem, because I wouldn't want it to be, the least I'd like is that this law pleases, in any way, some way, to mildly express myself incorrectly by acquiring ownership of such an property that should really be put into use as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67370	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67371	Thank you very much, Representative Orepic. As far as these military facilities and military facilities are concerned, we have cases that we assigned military units to a city that couldn't take over later, and then it turns out he can't manage it, so he begs to return. There are works where the government, not the ministry, ten years ago, 15, 12, 5 years ago, assigned to a military city, to organize it for the purpose and purpose of which the city... It's been five years or 10 years since that military station was put into operation at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not everything and it can't be everything, nothing can be generalized and it's not all the same it's from this case to the case. Therefore, when it comes to military service, we need to be very comprehensive in our attitude and know exactly what it is. When it comes to this, I know what you've alluded to, when you're talking about a small place, I'll say exactly, I was in that place at the invitation of the mayor of the municipalities, it's the City Hall. That community, the small one I think has no 1,000 inhabitants, now at this time, there are 17 objects in this state, here you see. And so for 27 years. It's dangerous for both life and health. What we could either leave like this or find a legal framework to revitalise, how to humanize and how to commercialize and not get into ownership relations because ownership relationships are not resolved. And that's why this law provides for a long-term lease and nothing gets in the way of ownership relations. When ownership relations are regulated then it will be the next treatment and until then that it still does not fail and does not pose a health risk, we have decided on such a legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67372	Let's go fifth replica, dear colleague Sanader, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67373	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the minister, the associate. We have a replica relating to Mr. Minister, a deposited land. You know that the state sold hotels or the Privatisation Fund, and then our cities and municipalities on the coast are on the Makar area, Hvar, Brač getting millions of former owners paid. And now hundreds of appeals, in that sense, that someone can handle it, help it, it's not solved. I can see that neither this law nor I understand... What are the indications for solving this problem where municipalities and cities are convulsing in the problem of paying these funds, not the one who sold the hotels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And secondly, in Article 45(3) but... 4th, implementation of the demographic reconstruction programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether this applies or should add an article that also applies to residential areas of the family home and encouraged housing possibly in that area because it is the same important thing that should be done but I don't know now under demographic renewal you might mean all of this but it is inevitable that municipalities, cities in these areas should be able to build housing or residential buildings in these areas. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67374	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67375	Dear Representative Sanader, for this problem of deposited land I have been familiar with for 15 years, while I was also a representative, I received representatives and mayors from Hvar and Brela and Podgora. If there can be injustice, then it's injustice. If it can be any more illogical and it's to pay for something and there's no countering. These municipalities paid millions of dollars without any countermeasures. The hotel owner is someone else, the Republic of Croatia, or the Croatian Privatisation Fund or CERP, or the colour of which the institution that gave these hotels and the land that was returned paid for by municipalities. So many are blocked too. In the worst situation, it seems to me that old Hvar and Podgora and Brela have and it's good that you mentioned this. We will try to find a legal framework to take into account and solve this problem, for example, because I know that some municipality that has a budget of 7 million or 8 million kuna has paid for such land a fee of 15 or 20 million kuna, which is inadmissible and in fact nobody has even cared about all these years but I hope that until the second reading we will find some legal framework to solve this. And for this already the second part, for housing incentives for residential construction, this proposed law foresees and can include it in this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67376	Let's move on, dear colleague Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67377	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It is difficult to make a law that will solve all problems but the fact is that this law solves a huge number of problems by the very fact that you put a provision and set a date on 1 January 2017. I, all over this list of cultural homes, from health institutions, cemeteries, public infrastructure, everything that's the subject of this decision, can give a whole series of examples of how long it took. So solving and transferring the ownership of one of the cultural homes in my city with so far what... So now with your ministry, it's been about six years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only this data has already solved a huge number of problems in the entire Republic of Croatia. I really ask you, and we discussed this on the board, I see that both a whole series of commissioners and mayors discussed it about that article 68th and the position of the State Attorney's Office on how to repay the benefits of the Republic of Croatia achieved in good faith, or in order to put it into function of the land which was at that time registered in the ownership of the local self-government unit. And I would like the subject matter of Article 45 also in this law where we are talking about obtaining property rights over these areas of purpose and home of culture, cemetery and facilities of social activity, kindergartens, everything you have brought here to reflect on both the same formulation and the land of economic purposes within existing business zones if they are placed in economic function more than 50% of their surface.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67378	Thank you. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67379	Thank you very much. Representative Klaric, this law, and you have well noticed, is far the most useful if it can be said to benefit, will have a unit of local self-government because by itself and the activation of any property in any area will always benefit from the units of local self-government. Imagine if 100 of these former resorts are restored each worth 10m euros in investment value over the next 2 years, what will be the benefit in terms of employment, economic, economic activity in these areas. Or any business space that is put into function and land that is sold, it will be built on that land, a hotel company that is sold, let alone what ex-lege is assigned to the units of local self-government. However, when it comes to industrial zones, it is related to other laws and ex-legis and cannot be without... areas where an industrial zone is intended to be legally transferred to ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, as you know personally that the Ministry of State Property is available and that no industrial zone is suffering because of the Ministry of State Property's relationship with the units of local self-government, and your city would not have dared to say the best industrial zone not only in Croatia but also beyond that it was not except you and other, little and the activities of the Ministry of State Property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67380	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67381	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. I'd like to draw your attention to article 70 of this law. I believe as a minister who manages state property that and as an economist that you do not want to have dead capital, therefore an asset that is not available or in office. Yet, what we must keep in mind are some other dimensions that are important to consider. So if I am a good interpreter of this article, it gives rise to the authority that those assets that are not yet clarified in the process of succession with the countries of the former Yugoslavia are put into economic use or that the state rents or other forms of action of that property. If you followed yesterday's statements by Mr. Izetbegovic during the BiH president's visit, he has just stressed that the issue of entry into possession of such assets that are the owners of a legal person or a natural person from BiH will be the highest priority list in Croatia and BiH's relations. Such an authorisation to put such assets into service for our name and our account could make relations with BiH quite complicated. And I'd like to know if you've taken care of this international legal or foreign policy aspect and the consequences that this issue can produce when you have defined this article of the law. For me, it is a clear economic logic, we do not want to have an asset that is empty and which is not in use, we want to put everything into office but don't forget that some of this property is not in operation because they are not resolved relations, successions between Croatia and the followers of the former Yugoslavia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67382	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67383	Thank you very much. Representative Klisovic, we are aware of all the things you have been saying, but this law does not interfere with ownership relations, in general, there is only a choice to leave it like this or solve it in this way. However, when it comes to the property of the Republic of Croatia in the area of the former states, or former republics, no one has even asked us about ownership. What happened to 400 sales spaces only Borov, Šimetski, INAs pumps across Serbia, Montenegro, BiH and others? It's all sold out and we won't do it, in equity until property relations are settled no one will touch property because they haven't been settled. But it's not the owners who claim to be the owners, they're the non-owners because ownership relations aren't solved. Therefore, and this bill to put into office does not address the issue of ownership but only the activation of that property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67384	8th replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67385	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ministers in the current law there was a division of legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia owns an absolute or majority part of those of strategic interest. You have now amended Article 12 in a way that the dodida of such division and remains all companies, i.e. legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. In my view, and given that this same article requires the Government to submit by 31 September a report to the Parliament on State Property Management, it seems to me that it would be logical then in law and states that these legal persons are obliged to submit a report to the Ministry of State Property for the purpose of providing a business report to your ministry and to that ministry in which it is to monitor the business of those legal persons. So it seems to me that it would be good to establish the obligation of legal persons of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia to have their administrations delivered to your ministry, i.e. the Ministry of State Property, but also to the Ministry of which the work of those legal persons is the report on business for the year in which they were operating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67386	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67387	Thank you very much. Representative Bačić, we therefore moved the date to 30.09 so that we could collect all the reports and then submit the report to the Croatian Parliament. It was regulated by the code that was adopted, which was adopted by the Government but this remark and this proposal seems to me to be very rational, life-threatening, and we're going to consider including it by the second reading anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67388	Now it's time for a respected colleague of the Dark-Tarist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67389	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, first of all, it's good when the minister comes to defend the law, so I use every opportunity because ministers rarely see that they defend the law, so this time I use the same opportunity to point it out. However, the State Property Management Act can be excellent, it can be ideal, but you need to know what you are managing. And basically it's always a problem, a record of what's being managed. By this law you decided not to keep that record anymore than you decided to transfer it to another office. I note that there is always some kind of sublimeness. At this point, it is the modernization to keep records, one record is kept by DGU, within the Data Management Act, i.e.... The directive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a record run by the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, it's all about real estate. We have equally passed a law where the Ministry of Regional Development will work as well as the records. And now everyone's gonna record something and take care of what's really a condition, and we're gonna find it hard to see. On one of the boards, a colleague said that you would like to see and that the point is to see what is a cadastre, which is a grantovnica and what is envisaged by the spatial plan that when someone comes to say you can have 5 locations for toy factories in Croatia. That's the whole point of being able to manage state property at all. I'm afraid this way and this proposal that's only going to complicate things. To make it simple and say, it's almost like I'm cooking dinner, I don't know how many people are going to be having dinner and the groceries for that dinner aren't going to buy me my husband that I can make a deal with, it's going to be my neighbor. So it would be good to know why this decision is and why you decided to transfer that part and one story you have from the ministry to another body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67390	Depends on what the neighbor's motives are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67391	Thank you very much, esteemed representative of the Dark-Taritash. If all that were true, I'd agree with you, but it's not true, fortunately it's not true. You said the ministry wouldn't keep records of the assets it manages. It is not true, the Ministry will keep records and will keep records as it has now and this property records managed by the Ministry of State Assets is available to all. That records are in the Ministry of State Property. But as Croatia's forests do not keep the register of all state property, so neither will the Ministry of State Assets run the register of what Croatian forests or Croatian waters or the Ministry of Defence manage. The Ministry of State Property has records and will keep records of the property it manages and the state register of all assets from both Croatian forests, water and all institutions will run the Central State Office for Digital Society where it will be a unique register and everyone else will have its own records. And that's the only logical, the only life-and-life thing that's feasible, so I think it's the right approach and the right approach to life. So, we're gonna stay on this because it's the most practical thing to do. But the truth is, the records we have aren't accurate. We will make an effort to correct that record which is not correct in the register. When a register was entered in the Register of the Ministry of State Property it was entered that no one was checking what was being entered and it is not correct and we now have to work for years to correct what was not exactly entered. And as for thanking me for being here today, it's perfectly normal for me, it's unnaturally different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67392	I'd like to ask my colleague Hajdukovic now, she's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67393	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, a few objections to a law that is good for sure that we have in 2 readings and that we polish it all the way. Thus, preparing for this law some fellow lawyers have suggested that the name of the law itself is not good because it says, or recognizes only the management of the property and management does not have to mean the availability. The other thing is that my colleagues have already mentioned in my mind at least too many powers that you are taking over as a minister and you have property, shares, shares up to 7.5 million kuna. Or what worries me the most is the transparency of such decisions and the public's interest. Article 15 of the proposed law lays down the principle of public governance of state property but I believe that it is indeterminate, i.e. it only speaks of the rules and criteria which will result from this law. I'm not talking about you personally right now, but from this government, we've seen all kinds of regulations and we've seen all kinds of sublegal acts that have led to trade wars and things like that. So I have no confidence that the government will produce a quality document where this principle of the public will be consummated as it should be. Because if we are discussing state property, so something that the state has and is at its disposal, then the public's interest is very important and the more you have relatively large amounts, or up to a million euros. And finally, the last remark is what counterpart Mrak-Taritash used to say to state property is the most important element for the control and management of state property. Then why do we have the Ministry of State Property, then we could have a central state office to develop a digital society that could run all the registers and not have one minister, we'd have a minister less.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67394	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67395	Thank you very much. Representative Hajdukovic, because, I would agree with you if the name itself wasn't a good name. The Law on State Property Management as a concept could say so all state property belongs there. And what do you call it? Maybe the law on a piece of state property. But that law that he called was made by the SDP and in 2013 was brought here to the Croatian Parliament, which is what you called it. And he has a logical name but it's not a logical law on the management of a part of state property. That's how he's connected to the concept of state registry, too. But I repeat, the Ministry of State Property manages and has a record and a register of assets he manages but will not keep records of those run by other ministries. Even the Code of Criminal Procedure does not regulate all criminal offences, does not regulate minors. But there won't be a law on a part of the crime, and that's what we have to tell the difference. And so I agree that perhaps the first impression is not the best name of the State Property Management Act because it doesn't involve governance, I say, in foreign currency, in gold bars if we had them. And gold bars are state property, but we don't run state property. Forests are state property, maritime good is state property planes are state property, airports are state property, but not owned, not managed by the Ministry of State Property with the state property. It's only logical at this point, in these circumstances, this proposal for a solution. And besides, I'm saying for that name, it was originally you who accepted it here, and I was in the House when that law was passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67396	Thank you, too. The next replica is Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67397	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here's the answer to my line, I'm a little bit, I'm very welcome on this line right now. It's not exactly true that he doesn't run your forest ministry. Let's get it straight. First, to welcome every effort to put state property into office should be welcomed. Here's a good example. In Virovitica-Podravska County, there are colleagues Bedekovic, a colleague of Djakic, I will commend them, although those for pragmatic and political reasons will never praise me for being the chairman of the Governing Council myself for six years. It's a big thing done. The former military building there is now a high school and it is a good example of how to manage state property. That's also Mr. Boban who knew about it. However, there are a number of examples where good is not managed. But what bothers me as a Slavonca, I'm aware when we mention the agricultural land forest to me is an association of pigs. We don't pig what your old name is for popular golf as it is today. I don't know about that game, I'm not even an anti golfer, I don't know. There's someone with a stick pushing a ball into a hole and trying it out of multiple attempts. And what defines golf, that a golfer opposes the field he plays on. And now we in Article 5 say you couldn't resist, introduce golf courses into the woods. If you are in the woods, just as planned by the Law on the Forests. That's not acceptable to me. The tourism development strategy mentions 30 playgrounds that should be developed and they mention there to put the development of golf courses to function as existing capacities. And here you say in Article 5, it's not an existing statement, it's a plan to build golf courses, hotels, hotel complexes, camps and others. So we're planning construction. Exactly, so what's wrong with that? So how do we know who, because we say, those projects that are defined as strategic investment projects, and the Strategic Investment Projects Act says they can be EU-funded projects. We don't actually have the right frames of what it can all be. And there's a lot of things that can get in there. I would like it to be more clearly defined what can be built and what will be built, and not this wide definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67398	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67399	Agent Sagar, thank you for these suggestions. But I have to tell you that... The Ministry also manages the woods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It doesn't control. The Ministry of State Property does not manage forests or agricultural land. There is a Law on Agricultural Land, there is a Law on Forests as there is this law that will come and now on state property management which does not define that it manages the Ministry of State Property with forests, waters, agricultural land. It doesn't control. And what you're talking about is that golf course if it's in the forest area it's only going to be in that area where the golf course or something is being built to manage the Ministry of State Property for practical reasons, because so far, these things have been solved in four places for building permits. But the Ministry of State Property does not decide what will be built or where it will be built, local self-government decides on it with its spatial plans. We don't have any contact with that. So how can the Ministry of State Property decide where to build a golf course? Not at all. And please don't put anything that doesn't stand. And then it turns out that now the Minister of State Property is going to build 50 golf courses. We don't have any contact with that. We don't decide or decide, but someone has to decide about the permits when someone else decides there's going to be golf. And then to be in one place, I'd be the happiest person to have someone else do it. But it's been working so far and four in the inter-resorial arrangements that we've agreed to do it, and the Ministry of Agriculture is doing the right to serve and the rest of us to take it off ourselves. But we don't decide at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67400	Thank you, too. Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67401	Honorable Vice President, Honorable Minister, Secretary of State. I'm reading this law and I think you're a big part of the problem that we've all talked about given the jobs we've been doing, and I think you're most of it if you haven't actually sublimed everything and it's very high-quality. What makes me particularly happy is precisely in this part where you said solving the relationships and records of apartments owned by the state, which in my experience were labour records of peasants multiple times from the Fund for the Management of those apartments to cities, and then retransmitted to the Office of State Administration, or DUDI, and I don't know where it all went. And they didn't exist there, so it would just form all that together, and then the complete record would be cut down. So it must finally be found a way and solved in a quality way and that it becomes really recorded properly. It is also very important to take after '91. and the privatisations that were here with Article 65 you will seek to resolve exactly those shares and shares that were then defined and to finally make all of this ready in a way that needs to be prepared to know who paid off, who did not pay off the shares, how much will it belong to him, whether, you are here and envisaged the possibility of a one-time payment. So, finally, and all that pulls on here for 26, seven years to clean up in a good way, to know who has who, who owns it and who doesn't own it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67402	Thank you very much. The answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67403	Thank you very much. Representative Peric, thank you for your suggestions. The law isn't perfect and there's no law perfect, but he's been through one very long procedure, one systematic analysis, I think it's 30 times we've been ambushed, read every time from the beginning and seen something else that's missing. I hope something can be better. I hope this debate will help make him better. That's why we're going to carefully analyze everything, especially this part, that you're talking about flats. We're aware of that problem, we talked about them. It's not an ideal or optimal solution. It's better than the existing, if it comes up with another reading, even better, we'll accept it and find it along with discussing these discussions, but we don't have empty apartments. There's a problem. For example, in your town, if flats were now assigned to the city, if we went to that variant, you'd get illegal renters. We don't mind doing it. Only then will you have a problem, not us. But if we go in there, I'll even be happy to find such a solution, so we can unload. And we don't have empty apartments, now we need to go after your town or someone else, we need 100 apartments or 50 apartments. There are no apartments like that. Because long-standing chaos is government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67404	Thank you, too. Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67405	Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the past, the SDP has referred some 20 legislative proposals to the procedure and has generally failed to pass the first reading. But here, I'm glad Mr. Maric read our proposals and put some of it into this law. I will remind you of our proposal to transfer ownership of pensioners' homes, the founders of the local and regional self-government unit, which has not passed the first reading. But thanks to Mr. Marić's respect for good proposals, we also see that we have an extension in this legislative proposal, so that real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, in the nature of the school, health homes, hospitals and other institutions in the field of education, health, sports, recreation, firehouses and social homes, markets, are registered in units of local and regional self-government. So I welcome and invite the other ministers to read the SDP proposals and send similar laws into the procedure as soon as possible and to set our proposals in an equally good way. And one suffering, Minister, I've asked a lot of parliamentary questions, on this subject, unfortunately, did not come up with a solution, what about the shipping institute? This month comes 10 million kunas on the charge, takes it off the company's list of state interests, does there have any future for him?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67406	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67407	Thank you very much, Agent Jovanovic. This one part I've seen you propose for retirement homes, but this other part you've listed, that's not, this is all originally ours, so you know. But for the pensioners' homes, I saw that you suggested, but you didn't suggest this part. That's all for what we've proposed, Art. 69. originally from the Ministry of State Property, of course, considering everything we heard, got and saw what should be done. The Ministry of State Property only sees whether any suggestion is good, whether it is useful, whether it will be, improve the activation of the property and how it will act on the overall economic activity, on the overall state of the state. If she improves the situation, she will be accepted, she will be considered, no matter where that idea came from. I did say, this is not party law, this is law, of vital interest to the Republic of Croatia, because it is the property of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the shipping institute is concerned, it has nothing to do with the Law on State Property Management, but I won't make any more specific decisions on them. All companies and management care, run by the management of society, not the minister. The minister with the management of the company has no one... In particular, the Ministry of State Property, with the shipping institute, because it is not a resolute ministry for the ship's institute, nor does it affect the state of the ship's institute, however, I hope that the shipping institute will find a strategic partner and that its future will be privatised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I personally think about it and I will also try to make it happen, not to spend years of private interests on such a society, which has been in trouble, primarily because of poor governance, not because of the relationship between the Republic of Croatia and the Government towards that shipping institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67408	Thank you. Mr. Churay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67409	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, of course I agree with any introduction of order and the promotion of all those decisions that must be made in order for our economy to breathe a little bit. What I really want to point out here, first of all, is that this law improves the resolution of clear responsibility and jurisdiction between certain bodies, who is responsible for what, who needs what, and reports etc. And there I would just like to point out one problem, which is happening to us by our citizens, entrepreneurs, and that is the problem, which is unfortunately now being solved by the silence of the administration. Namely, when buying or acquiring apartments, which are, for example, under some conversational protection, or when performing, if we are talking about entrepreneurs, building permits, where the neighbouring land is owned by the Republic of Croatia, the consent of the Republic of Croatia is required. Unfortunately, this agreement is not given, but simply within 60 days it is understood that it is given. Unfortunately, when we look at more investment and people who want to invest in their apartments, I'm afraid there's a lot of money sitting in our account and we're wasting a lot of time. What I would also like to point out this way and actually ask a question, is about a state-owned facility, which has a MORH-bound facility former JNA home in Osijek, on the Zvonimir street, now home of HV, it is a large facility, which I think, is that, at present, it is using 20-30% of its capacity. In view of NATO standards, that in cities of more than 100,000 inhabitants, the military should not be placed in the centre of the city. I appeal, there have already been countless possibilities for this facility, primarily owned by the city of Osijek. Whether for the needs of the city or even better, precisely for the needs of our entrepreneurs, because as you are likely to know, in the city of Osijek is very fast developing IT industry and they are currently looking for 5,000 squares for their needs. We unfortunately have no place to secure it, and maybe it's one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67410	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67411	I thank Representative Curaj, for these observations, for his remarks, but one was misdirected. I'm sorry, that... The former JNA in Osijek is not in charge of the Ministry of State Property at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Department of State doesn't run it, it's in the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense because it's so-called. Perspective property. So we don't run that facility, that property. As far as this section concerns the jurisdiction prescribed by the law is concerned, I think we went very, very clearly to clarify and transfer as much competence as possible to a particular institution. Something about this jurisdiction and being out of part of the job because it was so ineffective, so slow, let's just say the right of service in 4 places is decided. That's why he's no longer with the State Department. One body charges, the other estimates, the third does technical work, the fourth, it was because of this incompetence. This law defines any jurisdiction more clearly. And it was intensities and it was achieved that in one place it was resolved that a party, an investor or anyone who had a relationship with the ministry to solve a ministry in one place rather than a number of ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67412	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67413	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I welcome this new law. I would like to speak briefly here, later in an individual debate, I will discuss in more detail a problem with which you have certainly come to know, given that you have defined it as a top priority of your mandate and it is a problem of an electrodes and ferrolegure factory in Sibenik popularly known as TEF, it is a space that is extremely, extremely valuable and I will dare to say the most valuable space on the coast of the Adriatic, 350 million kuna is the estimated value of space. And what's controversial is that this space is burdened with numerous mortgages. What you know is also the mortgage of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Energy Efficiency Fund. Here I am using this opportunity through this replica to hear what is done in this field, the Sibeniks are very eager to expect the realization of this project or the resolution of the ownership structure and that this project finally goes to the benefit of all Sibenik and the entire country of Croatia. I must stress here what is beautiful in the law in Article 9, governance of state property is about the attention of a good master. And it also says on the follow-up to the article, where necessary, changes are being made, and changes are being made to the purpose of state property, which will be necessary in this case. Here I'm going to say in the end, this is, you're here recently and I know you've been working on this field but the Sibenik have been waiting for 27 years, it's a very long time for such a valuable space that would mean a big step for our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67414	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67415	Thank you very much. Although there is little direct contact with this law and with the property managed by the Ministry of State Assets, I will answer the question because it is still a touch. Because the claim of the Republic of Croatia will turn into the basic capital of the company and will then become part of the owner of that property in the area of the former TEF. So, just before, I think three days ago I got a report on the state of the project. It is true that I was the Prime Minister when he asked what would be the project in the ministry, the mandate project, that project I reported to be the project of the Ministry of State Property's mandate in this term. He's developing well, it may seem a little bit slower than expected, but if 27 years of unchanged were a condition then it's hard to expect sorcery because sorcery and wizards don't have, but we've done everything we've done and we've already started, we're no longer at the initial step but in the middle of somewhere, realising that project. And I'm sure by summer, there will be clear outlines of the completion of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67416	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67417	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, in your opening statement, you were actually talking about one bizantism, divorce, irresponsibility towards state property, and that there may be criminal offences in that part for all those who may not have managed it well. Col. Hajdukovic spoke before me, I know very well that for the mandate of their government and you were sitting on this side they were talking about that they actually made a list of the entire state property. You were actually speaking in your presentation about your ministry having made one thorough analysis, that this working group is actually a group of professional people, academic community, DORH, the ministries have agreed to this law. During this debate and through the question of our parliamentary representatives, it was evident that this law, too, proposed by this Law on State Property Management, did not actually cover all those categories, but part of the state property that you also said. Since I'm a practitioner and I know that you talked about it on this side, then I like to talk about it when we talk about our municipalities, cities, counties, and then I also try to make sure that as little administrations and bureaucracy as possible be in those parts so that certain things can be solved in a much better way. So I'll just have two things tied up by the very introduction of the law. So the local self-government units will get all those properties, the objects you were talking about. I'm interested in whether local self-government units will sign these properties in their area and deliver them to you. And the long thing about local self-government units is this going to be decreed, so, about local self-government units, or is any such property going to get that decision? Will the decision be made by the ministry, given the value or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67418	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67419	Thank you very much, MP Babic, simplestly, the local self-government unit submits a request to the ministry and receives a tabular credential for all the properties it submits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67420	Okay. We continue the debates by clubs, Mr Tomislav Panenic in front of the Advocacy Bridge Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67421	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. Today in the debate one of the laws which, of course, is causing attention and what, especially most of our colleagues here, who participated in the work of local self-government, knows that governance, especially real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, is one of the key problems that most of them have met for sure in their attempt to make progress in their local community. But here, at first, I'd like to refer a little bit to this debate that I've been listening to very carefully, and what I have to conclude is a good intention and... In fact, the minister, when he said, that the commission that is now being abolished was not working. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I miss about that part, that it didn't come out clearly and why it didn't work. What we met when we came to the government, which is that these commissions, they absolutely didn't even meet. That the dynamics of these committee meetings were so rare, that someone met 3.4 times in a few years. And then it's clear that the problem wasn't actually the law or to say certain wishes, but simply, ministers weren't doing their job. The diameter did not affect that it was happening, and it all ended up in a web that had no way to solve anything for years. So, but right now, we actually have a tendency, I looked at it a little bit, and you try Google to type in to see how many countries in the world the Ministry of State of Property has. I think it's defeating to see, that in fact we ourselves have admitted that we are not capable of getting to know each other, but we must even have a ministry to solve this problem. So all these years, it's been run so badly that we've raised it to the level of the ministry. I think it's as far as I found only Cameroon to have a ministry, this is what Russia once had, so it's translated to the level of the agency. We see that the legislative framework that the government has so far been insufficient. It simply did not make it possible to function, and now Minister Maric appears, gets that power, and we all want, of course, to speed up all this together, and what those mentioned by my colleagues and those who are currently acting on local self-government want to get as much power as possible, so that they can put all that is controversial to them and their citizens into function. However, with all these good sides of the law, which are here, listed through this part of the debate, I must note, through 3 points, that we have once again one danger, which I would call, that we will be in a position to make this pure legalization, the sale of Croatia. But here, let me try to elaborate a little bit. First of all, the records won't be a public register. It's personal to me, as a citizen, not now that I'm a parliamentary representative here, but let's do it once more, that transparency raised to the level, that every citizen, every interested party, was a local self-government, entrepreneur or anyone, knows what state property is, in some area. Even if it has an economic interest, and if certain other interests, even often happen that they cannot be realized because they do not know that there may be a possibility. And I think there's space, by publishing such a register, not only will it get information, which is in our vicinity, but we'll raise the level of competitiveness. There will be a number of parties that are at one point interested in putting a certain real estate, which is currently owned by the Republic of Croatia, into office. Secondly, which would indicate, if we had, the possibility of granting the right to build without conducting a public competition. And that is specifically for the purpose of building renewable electricity-generating facilities. He says, if this bidder is elected in a public tender procedure for producers. It's just one logic to me. So someone's applying somewhere, I'd become a privileged power producer, where I don't know, but here, let me be. At the end when he becomes privileged, he says, yes, but on this very property owned by the Republic of Croatia. I miss that sequence, actually. If I were going to become one, I'd first know exactly the real estate I want to do it on, and then I'd ask for that property to get the right to build or some other right, and then with my project, with the place where it's going to go I'd be able to leave and the right to become a privileged producer. So, it's a little bit, it's like, first build a house, and then you say about that land, and now that my house is on it, or you get a building permit, to be even more accurate, because I have a building permit, that land belongs to me then, and that before that you've got a construction permit, that you didn't know, actually where you want it. It's a little bit like that, here's this whole article that kind of sounds a little strange to me. And given the many problems we have had and still have our citizens, not that we have had, but only now are the problems and continue around the stimulating sources of renewable energy so that it can be one of the points in which the minister's good intentions may be broken again. Third, what he would call in fact one part of that attempt at such legalisation, which corresponds to someone that the ministry will manage the land that is separated from agricultural land. Now, when we look at these laws on agricultural land, so the Investment Encouragement Act, everyone in some way alludes, I see that it's one line that this government has aligned that in fact everything is going to be, here's a golf course, a hotel, a camp or another facility for providing tourist services, that it's also going to be on perhaps high-value land and that opens up the possibility, if you remember it was what it was if there wasn't a lower-valued land then it could become a high-value plot. And even I who am in that golf course and I hit that bat sometimes, and I know about it, I can't imagine that a high-value land that needs to be served primarily for food production becomes a recreational area, I think we have so much space that can certainly be. So he manages the land that's been set aside if they're planning to build on it. So we've got a reverse, someone's planning, and then we're wondering about making spatial plans with all this. In fact, these three laws, when we look at it all together, that golf law that was then gone, came back into all the other laws, and it's increasingly mentioned, so we're going to assign land, we're going to support that investment, but since I'm coming from the continent, I have to say that unfortunately nothing to go on here explains practically that such investment is going to happen on the continental part because we've turned into a country that is exclusively engaged in the development of tourism on the Adriatic coast, because this is already getting a little annoying for me to look like the whole east of Croatia is becoming forgotten and it's all about who before, who's going to make faster on the Adriatic coast, and even under the legal name of the law itself, one or more of them that's showing up here. Here I will commend the Ministry's intention that these facilities that serve public purposes, which have so far been managed in local self-government and regional, be assigned, but here I will warn of one danger to that assignment. I think that it should have been under local self-government, not according to regionals, and I'll explain why. So if regional self-government currently owns an elementary school, manages it, you know what's going on with us? We have certain schools, lack of children. So what do we get? Then we get an object owned by a regional self-government no longer in office and local self-government no longer has to pray to the ministry but we return to the fact that local self-government is now going to beg for regional self-government. We haven't solved the ongoing problem, I would still consider it of interest to have these facilities owned by local self-government and that logically and realistic governance because this and the special law are defined as regional self-government and there is certainly no dispute in that. And it often happens that local self-government is financially, materially helping just objects such as school facilities or some others managed by even regional self-government but underinvestment, too little care and many times and only the maintenance that happens around it is related to the efforts of local self-government although they are not in fact the owner of it. But here's to all of this together, we have here being assigned but e.g. One camp, it cannot be assigned, will be managed by the ministry anyway, so that I see that all that some infrastructure is transferring it to the responsibility of local self-government, and what should be developmental, where there are interests for local development, it remains still in the power of the ministry and will continue to burden you again because all the demands are coming back to you, long-term procedures, allocations, considerations, regularity, I think it is a certain question that decentralisation can be put in place once ad act and that local voters will assess whether a local self-government leader has managed to put that property into office or not, and then has a permanent excuse in that our request to the minister has not been resolved for years, so it's hard to get into the whole problem when such communication has been shifted from the responsibility of the local head. What I would do as little as one of myself would personally also make important big problems has highlighted the new structure of the CERP, in fact some new regulations that are tied up and intending to define very broadly who can be in the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director. So there's a pre-graduate, graduate university study, an integrated undergraduate, graduate specialist, but there's no profession. No reference is made to the profession and says at least 10 years of work experience after the completion of studies in the acquired professional preparation. First, let's do this. Management of any company, I mean, it's always one very economic issue. Sometimes there can be a lot of legal questions. Sometimes it's in a special profession when it's located, for example. If it's a private company, health care can be like that, but if we're looking at a system that's supposed to be run by large-scale diapazon companies, then I don't see how you could, for example. One graduate politologist who sat here for 10 years in the Parliament could be the director of such an organization or someone who had completed a certain study that was tied up I don't know about cultural goods, I'm spreading it a little bit, and that for 10 years he was the head of the museum and now let's put him on as headmaster, deputy director of the CERP. Personally, when I was a minister, what I met was that most of the companies in which the supervisory boards were appointed were primarily taken care of by that division, so the party had some regional demands of its members and were filled in by supervisory committees and administrations. What wasn't being taken care of? It was not taken into account whether they really had the right and complete qualifications to manage such a company. Well, a lot of them, even in good faith, have reverseed the business of a number of companies, especially here at the time, since we were blocked by the HDZ's position at the time, by the appointment of the supervisory boards. It is justified to me, logically, that there should be an economist in every supervisory committee who can read the financial results in quality, the reports given by the administration, one lawyer who can also from these reports or everything, or business to determine whether it is in accordance with the laws, perhaps the profession in which that company is to be someone, someone to be local, unfortunately here we actually degrade the highest level in a way that we send a message everyone can become just as in the principle of CERP, so it can be in the principle of the company and at the head, or as a member of the Supervisory Board, and thus we actually take one step backwards instead of... The company. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And let's just imagine this is, you said these companies should be paying CERRP a fee. Romania, unfortunately, has shown, I mean, their happiness, our grief, has shown that by giving these companies a qualified organisation that had professional personnel made a shift and their GDP growth shows this, and we are taking it one step back again. So here's what was in front of the club of MPs of MOST a few suggestions, so here's hoping that the minister, too, would listen carefully and try to understand some of it that we have a better law, that we can all finally support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67422	Thank you, too. You have 3 replicas and will then use his 5 minutes, Minister Maric. First replica, Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. fellow MP Panenić, if I understand correctly, the Croatian Parliament is the roof body that makes the laws. On my request, I addressed the Minister to the interpretation and reasoning of Article 68 where I asked whether all units of local self-government, which at the time of the availability and opening of a public tender for the sale of land, would have been entered as land owners, would have to return the proceeds from the sale under this bill, the funds to the state budget. I received a reply that there would be a debt of sales regardless of what land-book owners were returning to the state budget. I believe that every law that is passed must first guarantee legal certainty, further that it must be enforceable and third that it must be unequivocal. The minister replied to me, among other things, that extremely if the state's attorney's office were to agree with this. I ask myself, to all of us, and thus to the people of the ministry and to the minister himself, does this Parliament make laws or do we hide behind the attorney's office again and do we not have the power to make a decision? I think we need to change the law, guarantee legal certainty, and not in 2018, pass a law that retroactively actuates the situation on the ground, laws, ownership relations. I think we're working on our own damage. Thank you, I apologize for extending.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67424	Thank you, Mr. Sponza, thank you. Mr. Maric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67425	Thank you very much, colleague Sponza. So maybe this is exactly what you've stated is that one of the examples that we've met with is that, the functioning of the state's attorney and, I understand the position of the state's chief attorney when he said there are not enough people and we feel it through decision-making and also in the field where the numerous decisions to be implemented are awaiting the consent of the state's attorney, their opinion and this takes months and management of agricultural land as well when someone is not paying income not only from local self-government but also from the state budget and regional, when you try to run it as a local leader, as an interested party does. These are procedures that last and I'm afraid that exactly and this question is on the trail that maybe, that we've strengthened with one 70 people of the state's attorney's office to have a more fluid system then, namely this question of yours is, to say one legitimate question that I think will need to find a solution because all of this together leave to the state's attorney's office to make a move that will only mean an additional non-resolvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67426	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67427	Thank you very much, President. Comrade Panenić, you mentioned a natural problem which is crucial in this story about a very important law of state property, which is centralization and braking of the development of local self-government. In that part, I agree with you. However, I'm going to ask you a question that I asked the minister in the replica, how do you comment that by now DUUDI had 1 million options over state property as director of DUUDI and now Minister 7 million kuna? So 7 million kuna, how many countries have particles, on each particle, a thousand particles per million kuna, seven million kuna. So how do you comment, which is why with a million kuna so far, the DUUDI director's right of management has now suddenly increased the minister to 7 million kuna? For example. 1000 times 7 million kuna and there are 1000 particles, who knows how many Croatia has particles, there is the possibility of over-influence by one person. But I can be there. I'm not saying that the minister is going to be related. In every city of Croatia... You have a cousin, so the minister, by his signature, and even the appraisers, determines the minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minister said earlier that not he, not the minister, determines the appraiser, he is authorized to determine. Now imagine, that doesn't have the authority or the Pharaoh. Here are the powers of this law, and I believe that by the second reading, the minister will first, because of the transparency of the process, return this amount and that this law in the second reading will solve this problem and these doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67428	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67429	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bulj, of course, it is not only the taking of power but it is the taking of responsibility, and I would agree that this proposal has actually taken on a very large responsibility for itself, and when I was minister of how many documents come to be signed, where it takes a lot to rely on the ministry's services, because to follow everything personally, everything read is almost impossible. Therefore, this is justified in some way to warn the minister that he may still have two, three eyes on each document from those who share responsibility would surely be the one that needs to be seen and could be respected. Because I'm saying, it's one thing to speed up the procedure and I agree that the system so far has been too slow and I said for what, and it's just for colleagues who haven't worked, so it's all been slowed down together. Now I'm going to have a faster process here, but also at every speed and error can happen much more often. Here's hoping that the minister and his associates will once again consider this provision and try to find their own security mechanism, not to be at one point dragged into some local maybe affairs that are being transferred and presented both by the minister and his associates as the best model, and in fact there may be a problem on the other hand. I remember here from a time when there was a special purpose port, a marina, Mr. Shegon that basically why this project wasn't in our government at all approved. Because regional self-government has not made changes to the spatial plan. I've personally had the county say it's about to be over. It just didn't last for almost nine months and a few months and it wasn't done. After that, it was settled, and here I had no information until now that it was done. So I'm just saying, you should take care of the interests and the locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67430	Thank you. Mr. Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Coliga Panenić, you mentioned in your real estate presentation that is given by this law to one part of the Ministry of State Property, one part of the units of local self-government, so we compared the development capacities of these properties. As head of the local self-government unit, I could say that local self-government units get one change, the state leaves the management of jewels. So we have isolated construction areas where we intend to build golf courses, camps, hotel accommodation. But the question arises: Who will build the infrastructure to these golfes, to the hotel, and with what money? I know specifically about Split-Dalmatia County, in the region of Dalmatia, there are areas within the unit of local self-government where such sites should be built. However, local self-government units do not have fiscal capacity to build basic infrastructure. Perhaps we would have it if, by any chance, the local self-government units were to manage this area where camps should be built, hotels, because income on sale would go to local self-government units, not centralized in Zagreb. Therefore, this proposal, or draft law, is a continuation of a decentralisation by me. We had over 30 comments from various units of local self-government and area. The Association of Cities delivered 13 concrete comments on the bill, none of which was adopted so that I do not know whether the units of local self-government will be satisfied with such a proposed law that should address the early relationship between local self-government and state units in the area of infrastructure development in local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67432	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67433	Thank you. Dear counterpart Pranic, of course, always views, demands of local self-government and central government are contrary to that. Of course, everyone wants to prove themselves locally and create the best conditions and then resent any obstacle. And this is what I'd say and one of the obstacles is that you need to, you want to have an economic operator who manages a particular one, actually creates a certain profit. The economic operator also requires local self-government to provide adequate infrastructure. And now there's this game of cats and mice. So okay. You need to have some income to invest. On the other hand, they demand investment, and you will have no income. So it's a bit of a troubled area. But I would say just here that this division that was actually with the transformation of social property has left a number of problems, perhaps if at that time it had been better done it wouldn't have been done at all, maybe if there was a colleague Maric it was, maybe it would have been solved. But here we are now when there was around the stock on this loan that Agrokor was getting that we met, it was also in the media, and here I am personally saying that certain protractions, certain such buildings, were miraculously ended up under the management of companies. How to explain, how I don't know a VUPIK at my place became the owner of one part where the school toilet or I don't know where the former railroad was or where the train station was. It's amazing to me, too, but someone made it happen then. So, if there was a little more thinking back then about the needs of local self-government and how to manage it, I believe that this problem that you have where the ministry directly says we will not manage it, because we do not trust local self-government that I can be a good master. And then your effort to build an economic zone there doesn't really say that they're all the same, but then you're working out, you're trying, you're having problems, you're solving problems with state-owned companies and agencies, you're losing your sense of purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67434	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67435	Thank you very much, Vice President. This is a proposal that was agreed until the first reading. And the first reading serves to bring all new proposals back together. And that's why we listen carefully and record everyone who proposes. MP Panenic gave a lot of consideration. I failed to record any concrete proposals, so here, if by the end of the debate I freely liked to hear, so that we could consider, but I will refer to one of your presentations, just for clarity, not for the sake of semi-emotion, because it is not our intention to pollemize, but only to hear all the suggestions and register them. It was said here that the records won't be public. If that were the case, I'd be the first one against it. But reading that the register isn't a public register doesn't mean it's not public records. Because the public register is run by the Central Office for a State, Digital Society, which will cover all the assets of the Republic of Croatia and which will be public. And the Ministry of State's records are public and will be public while I'm a minister. All decisions taken by the Ministry of State Property are public and will be made public. Everything the Ministry of State does is based on the competition. And they won't do anything, all that's prescribed isn't authority, they're responsible for me. You're saying that without a competition, this is just for the sake of clarification, we're going to grant the right to build, we need to know, we don't do it without the right to compete. Already before, the second body has opened a public tender and sets out the basis for a public tender to set the conditions for building rights and an investor is elected in a public tender. And then on that basis, we give the public tender the right to build this investor who's been elected to public competitions, and not that we can, now, imagine if we were to call a new competition, and then, the right to build gets someone who's not elected to a public competition for this right of construction. So, there's no, I said, there's no here, no hidden intentions. Second of all, we don't bring golf into a small door, we don't have any, we don't have a Ministry of State Property at all, nor does this law have to do with it. It is prescribed by the Regulation establishing the right to build on forests and forest land by the Government of the Republic of Croatia 2016. It is not prescribed by this law, it is prescribed by this Regulation, you were in the government when that regulation was voted. As far as CERRP is concerned, I agree with you, absolutely, alone, the law does not prescribe the profession, but the conditions, the level of the school sperm, and the statue is prescribed by the profession, the competitions are prescribed by the profession, and if you read it, please let us check it out, now the last competition that was for the CERP was prescribed precisely a particular profession that can... But it's not usual to regulate it by law, even though I'd prefer it by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Al prescribes a statute or founding act, and then a public tender. So it's always going to be a profession, not the one someone's been trained to do that job for. I think specifically for CERRP's director is the most acceptable economic or legal profession and long-term experience and so will always be prescribed. So you don't have to worry about that. As for these amounts that my colleague Bulj is constantly insisting on, there are no 7.5 million kunas of no authority, it is quite a responsibility, as Mr Panenic said. I'd be the happiest, if it were 500,000 kuna and I had no right to sign anything, but the system would be paralyzed. So the commission has made 158 decisions lately, what should all 158 decisions be made by the government? You were in the government, so you know what it's like, just for the system's sake. And every director of the agency, every head of the municipality, every director of the office has more authority than the one prescribed by the minister. And as for my colleagues, Sponza, of course, I also said on the board, I support this proposal and we will agree to the second reading and I think we will come up with a clue to that solution that you're talking about, when it comes to ransom, about the sale of that land to which the Republic of Croatia later signed up as owner. Here, I hope I've answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67436	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67437	Thank you, Vice President. The Honored Minister, here, would now leave from the end, you mentioned and I mean with respect to both the powers and the amounts and the availability. However, this law states that the majority-owned companies of the Republic of Croatia, if I have read well, cannot make decisions on a higher amount than one million kuna without the decision of the Assembly, if that is the case. However, we know that in some companies, the state is not one of the owners and that the congregations, the time to call the congregations, and 90 bottoms, 45 days, so it's not so easy, especially for stock companies, that it's not so easy to make that decision, and it goes a little contrary to what you said, so I'm just interested in the clarification that I read it well or not. And I would also just like for Article 48, which speaks not of the sale, but precisely the reverse acquisition of real estate, so that would be the state that buys real estate, there is in paragraph 3 that it is based on the assessment and that the decision will be made. Whether or not this more detailed regulation will be regulated, as it would like to go the same way through a public tender, a call, practically a public one. And there's one big danger here. Namely, when you make a public call, and the person who calls it, the body, state or local self-government, people with unrealistic prices that are far above those market prices or what is happening are rarely present. In particular, if a certain unit of local self-government is looking for apartments for social needs and that part of the neighborhood, otherwise the market buys an apartment at a price, I don't know, 1000 euros square, the city's offer is 1200, 1300, maybe more. So, just people with it as a city have money, the state has money, so let's go out there and look for more than we might get on the market. I'm only interested in regulating such things, I say here in the law of Article 48, it's not specific, so here's whether it goes with a regulation or later on, it'll be regulated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67438	Thank you very much. Answer if he wants to, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67439	Thank you very much. When you spoke of this work where it was prescribed that a majority-owned company of the Republic of Croatia could not make decisions on real estate without a congregation of companies but only what the decisions on real estate were concerned because, namely, that the Republic of Croatia owned as before, one company where the ownership of the Republic of Croatia was 100 % sold to other companies without economic justification and that the property needed the Republic of Croatia for a third purpose and that there would be no such situation and circumstances. But as far as the evaluation is concerned, there is no public competition based on direct evaluation where the decomposition of the co-ownership community is. So we can't depose at all the co-ownership community and put into function real estate where the ownership of the Republic of Croatia and 6 other co-owners are if we won't work based on the assessment of and directly with the authorised court expert... Just for that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to say it one more time, no one decides either the minister or anyone else is going to be that and that court expert. The Ministry of State Property's public tender has called for 50 judicial warlocks, fewer reported them than we asked for. According to public procurement procedures, the court's experts are determined and it's a regular procedure at the Ministry of State Property, here and hopefully Mr. Bulj heard it. So only through the public procurement process goes the involvement of court witches and based on the public tender is chosen. We need more court witches than we have 'cause I can't do everything in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67440	Thank you, too. We continue with the clubs, Mr. Branko Bacic in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67441	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Law on State Property Management. It is clear that the need for the adoption of a new law on state property is also a result of the fact that the existing law which has been passed has not responded in quality to the need of the State to manage its property on the one hand, and on the other hand, the fact that certain procedures and procedures that are in the greatest part of the responsibility of the Ministry of State Property Management need to be improved, accelerated, adapted, so that as soon as possible abandoned state property that is not in office. The fact that either I read somewhere or Mr. Minister has singled out that the existing legal framework and institutional forms related to the management of state property have led to the long-standing abandonment, destruction and usurpation of state property but also led to the number of inactive properties. So it is said that there are 330 ex-militarys on 50 million square meters of land, 3470 building plots of a total area of 429 million square meters, 3860 business spaces of which 930 are empty, and 210 illegally used, 80 camps, thousands of apartments, garages, etc. So that fact, if it's true, I guess it is because I think it came from the ministry, it speaks enough about the need to find a legislative framework that will solve such state property in both property and legal terms and in terms of the use and availability of that property. Therefore, it is necessary to pass such a law that will speed up precisely the procedures of availability and management of this property. It is clear that I understand, too, that this law can only manage those assets that are not directly placed in the jurisdiction of other ministries or central state bodies such as agricultural land, such as forest land, such as maritime good, such as other property of the Republic of Croatia. And this law is quite clear, we can dispose of that property that is prescribed by this law relating to assets made up of shares in the business of companies whose... The RH and HZMO and the State Insurance Agency for Savings Deposits, then real estate and construction land and their specific parts on which the ownership of the Republic of Croatia was established, the camps were independently located in the construction zone, on agricultural land and in the forest and forest land as well as golf courses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, I would a little bit correct what the minister said, and what he's saying is that by mentioning the properties on agricultural and forest land, therefore not on building land where there is no jurisdiction of the minister, so on that building land owned by the Republic of Croatia, it stems not from this law but from the Law on spatial planning and construction and the Law on Forest Land. In 2013, by adopting the Law on Spatial Planning, the Government defined that it was possible to plan on outside construction land, especially on forests and forest land, golf courses, and that these areas of golf courses and camp land and land were overlooked for the construction of camps were no longer building land and then the Forest Law defined that these land intended for golf courses should no longer be detached from the forest economic base. So they're still forest land. Then someone else, not the State Department, would manage it if we didn't pass this law. So there is a very clear law that says that this ministry takes over the management of the land intended for the construction of a golf course outside the building land, which is on forest or agricultural land. So I'm perfectly clear, and I think this was the only way to solve it, so it was very important to isolate it. In this way, the practical ministry also manages properties that were not only building land, which was expected, given that agricultural land and forest land are under the management of other central state bodies and not the Ministry of State Property Management. I said that just before and in the replica, I welcome the fact that we do not have two types of legal persons of interest for the Republic of Croatia, so those strategic and those of particular interest. This is what we heard, during the current morning and the question of my colleagues, Pera Cosic, when he spoke about Đura Đaković in my opinion, there are companies which, of their particular interest, I would not share them with strategic or other ones of particular interest, all of them are set up in one group and states towards one another to care for the attention of a good master, make sure that these assets that are properly used in these companies and managed properly. Therefore, I support that fact. And I agree with the minister, and I was for a time the chairman of the Board of Management, i.e. the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia. I was president, and I know this procedure pretty well as it was going on, there's no reason for a single commission to be managed through a state apparatus and his entire infrastructure for his work to be provided here in this ministry. And I think it's better to prescribe the size, the amount of the value of the property and then leave it, leave the decision to a certain level, whether it's 7.5 million kuna more or less, for me at this point it doesn't matter. It is important to establish a procedure to speed up the availability of the property and manage the amount by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it's very important. And I agree with that, if the ministry doesn't already have maritime goods, if it doesn't have agricultural land, if it doesn't have forest land, if it doesn't have any other assets, it doesn't need to keep records of that other property that it doesn't manage. And it is good to place all the assets in that central state office for the development of a digital society, but this does not deny the responsibility of this ministry to run a high-quality, publicly available all its assets that it manages. And I think that formula is acceptable. And I support that in one place in one body, and in one body keeps records of the entire state property and that the data is delivered by those central bodies that manage this property. Well, in that sense, this estate ministry that it manages. The minister mentioned earlier that in the creation of a new Law on Market Land and other land is underestimated in the process of conversion and privatisation. And I think it's very important and it should be one of the priorities of this ministry. So as soon as I get here to Parliament with this law because as it is said, that law was passed, it seems to me in 2010. The law lays down the jurisdiction and implementation of this law on over 100 million square squares of building land, 100 million squares of building land that extends along the coast and is generally a tourist plot managed by companies that have passed the conversion and privatisation. However, given the unresolved status of the land, it is not possible to build on this land, it is not possible to build rights and these are very expensive, valuable land on which new building complexes could be built, reconstruction of existing hotel companies, and I think that this is very important as soon as possible. In that law there was also a regulation that laid down the procedure and how to put the tourist land into operation, as a rule. There was almost nothing done under the law, so it was not a good way to implement it, and it is important that the ministry comes out with the law as soon as possible. It is important to me that, I say over 100 million square meters of building land, as a rule of tourist land could be put into operation and allowed a number of investments to take place on that land without saying that the state through concessioning, through the lease of that land, would then collect very large fees which are not the case at this time, and that is as soon as possible in the ordinary procedure. What happened yesterday to the Committee on Local Self-Government, which also caused numerous replicas of objections, suggestions, refers to the article of a law which gives local self-government and regional self-government property to property that represents properties in which companies, institutions, companies whose unit founders of local, or regional self-government are engaged and thus states with full right to decide who is the founder of a particular company and the company in that facility is engaged and not owned by local or regional self-government to return to the jurisdiction of that unit of local self-government or regional self-government. But it won't go easy. It is said here that by 31 December 2018, the unit of local self-government that will become the owner of these real estate applications so that the ministry can provide a valid equivalent for the registration of property in the land book and the real estate catastro. It will not go easy because many of these properties are neither drawn up nor have administrative permits, some have no administrative licenses, property-law over these properties in large part of these properties are not resolved so that we do not get carried out very quickly after the local self-government unit submits a request for a tabular document. This tabular document will require an additional engagement of the ministry or of someone else, the State's Attorney's Office, I don't know who, but it will require a great engagement while this great provision for me to return what is given to local or regional self-government units to be given ownership of what it practically manages and manages whether it will last and it won't go so easily. I still support that decision to resolve the property issue on those properties. What I just said to the secretary of state, and I will repeat that the provision in the existing law which defines that the land that was built by 24 July 1991 belonged to the local self-government unit, and in this article it also wrote that the properties on which social property or general property was registered to become owned by the Republic of Croatia created a number of problems for local self-government units because the State's Attorney's Office... enrolled in every place where social property and general folk property were written. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And where construction land was built on July 24, 1991, the law was supposed to belong to a local self-government unit. Now this law isn't fully regulated. I believe that by the second reading of the law, clear provisions should be laid down to stipulate that the Republic of Croatia cannot own a building land that was registered as a building land until 24 July because numerous units of local self-government have problems because of their real estate that was registered by the Republic of Croatia by that date. The Republic of Croatia did so, i.e. the State Attorney's Office did so to ensure that certain parcels were defined as the limit which was determined in the spatial plan and which shared agricultural or forest land from the building land and was not carried out in the cataster but then the DORH had to do the plot first and register on what was outside of the building land, leave ownership of the local self-government unit, that did not happen and that many local self-government units had problems and it would be good if it did not solve the law which we would put out of force to settle this law, to make it clear. In this way, numerous court disputes between local self-government units and the Republic of Croatia would be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67442	Thank you very much. First replica, Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, at the very end of your reference to the law, you actually referred to yourself with, if I understood correctly, I think I did, with a clear view of exactly what I was referring to through two replicas. So, years ago, let's go back a little bit if we talked about agricultural land, forest, so on. We have always come to the conclusion through the talks that the State's Attorney's Office is, in its best interest, becoming a narrow throat and a brake generator for investment. I therefore said that we should take responsibility, and I pointed to article 68 of this bill which really wants to create problems for all units of local self-government, and I was very pleased to hear what you have said now and I believe that, above all, it is the duty of each of us to base every law and this, we guarantee legal certainty and I believe that we will have to do another reading and it is good that this bill went into two readings, come up with a formulation that will guarantee legal certainty and will not generate problems because we agree with the first sentence that the minister himself said that the people and the property of the attributes of the state and the people who live in the units of the local self-government are people of this state, and therefore, let's not destroy and eat the foundations and the foundations are the units of local self-government and do nothing to them, and what would hurt them in particular what they were land-book owners of land, so we were glad to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67444	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sponza, I am not your replicas that you have directed to the minister, I understand the way you've now replicated it to me. I understood what the minister had been replicating to you, on a provision according to which units of local self-government that had owned real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and the owner of these properties, the tenants of these properties used that unit of local self-government that acquired the material benefit of the sale or the availability of that property, would now be obliged to return to the Republic of Croatia because, contrary to this property, it was available to them. That's how I understood you. I didn't say that at the time, but I agree with you that you should be quite careful here, that if the local self-government unit has had that property now that those funds that have been made available to it have been paid into the state budget. As far as I understand it, it is not his provision, but the provision is defined, or as he said, in line with the state's attorney's office, and it would be good to draw a line, the moment the law comes into force and the Republic of Croatia takes over the property that is owned by it, but that does not mean an additional financial burden on the local self-government unit. I think that would be correct, but I say, we should wait for an opinion... If I get it right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67446	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67447	Thank you very much. Representative Bačić, this topic is very important, i.e. the Law of State Property. But here I mentioned earlier, a few illogical through replicas of the situation, and examples. If we have a spatial golf course, in the area where Croatia's own forests are now managed by Croatia's forests, only this spacious area where the golf course is isolated and becomes the property of this ministry, which is now proposed by the Law of State Property. And that area, that golf course, sells for example. if he's planning a golf course, he's selling the ministry. And the minister is, and the forest is around, who's bound to build the infrastructure? It's local self-government, and the ministry sells. And of course, the minister put up with a million kunas, put on 7.5 million kunas, the authority to sell the sea movables, real estates, shares, so he finely determines who will get that golf course. To these illogicalities, he decides, he cannot be a minister in this case, and everything would be burdened by local self-government. Why don't you put in the property of local self-government that area, so let local self-government build infrastructure. So the burden of infrastructure to the local self-government, owned by the Ministry of Property, and of course, this morning the minister said that the HNS had mentioned, so of course the HNS stands for it, as has been the case so far from continuity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67448	Thank you, too. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67449	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Buddy Bull, things are a little different. First of all, on forests and forest land cannot be owned by a unit of local self-government, it is exclusively owned by the Republic of Croatia under the management of a commercial company. These are at the moment of the Croatian forest. If a unit of local self-government together with the county and with the competent ministry of spatial planning results in the possibility of expanding the space of the forest, forest land, space and purpose for the golf course, this can happen under the Forests Act. It remains on a forest economic basis. But does it remain owned by the Republic of Croatia? And this minister won't or won't do it, he'll dispose of the land in a way that he can sell. It is always owned by the Republic of Croatia, and this investor who is and when he is, who will build that golf can get the right to build. And then for this right of construction to pay all its obligations, and based on these contributions, municipal contributions, the unit of local self-government, on that part, can provide the necessary infrastructure, based on the clearly charged municipal contribution that will take place there. So the minister won't sell the woods, nor... Nor is he the foundation of this law of Pharaoh, for this land shall remain in the possession of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the investor can only be authorised to build there, in accordance with the right to build real estate, i.e. the facilities necessary for golf, and everything else clearly remains green. As a result, the former government, the SDP at the time when it passed the Law on Spatial Planning, established that golf, given the small percentage of construction, the facilities remain, can be outside the building land and can remain on a forest economic basis. So there's no point in saying that the minister could sell forests and forest land, nor could it sell a unit of local self-government, because it can never own forest and forest land under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67450	Thank you very much. Sir... I'm sorry the time is up, Mr. Mader, please be my guest. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67451	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, clearly I welcome this article 69 laws. The only hope is that it won't delay the request when the local self-government unit sends a response to the ministry, because we know that here I am, as the former head of the local self-government for the assignment of land, we've been waiting for six years. Then, I don't know, maybe an art. 8th of this law, which I believe is not, that it is useless, an article that says that the agreement of the ministry should be sought, because the procedure for the adoption of a spatial plan, the general urban plan and urban planning of the arrangements, as well as all amendments to these plans, is already being delivered to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, which is also published on its pages, and this information is public. I think it's unnecessary, because we always have paperwork that I find unnecessary. And one more thing, but it's more of a question for the minister. It's about our county. There are some buildings that were built after '45. Mr. So-called bunkers, which are located under the property of the Croatian Forests and at our request when they were then DUUDI, one sent to the Ministry of Agriculture, others sent to DUUDI, one to the Ministry of Defence. Who owns these facilities? Because these are objects that can be used right now for various, even touristic and can be used for various purposes, and you don't know who owns it, but clearly, it's more of a question minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67452	Thank you. Mr. Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67453	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see, fellow, I think it's a good provision, that the local self-government unit, the district self-government unit, when it starts to change the spatial plan of any level, to inform the Ministry of State. I don't see what's wrong with that. Namely, 576 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia I think this year will certainly be 400, 500 if not 1000 spatial planning documents change. And you say it's a public document. It is true that the unit of local self-government in its official ballot publishes its official messenger a decision to amend a certain spatial plan or to plan a lower level because all units of local self-government in Croatia have spatial plans for the arrangements of municipalities, cities and counties. It is also logical that the local unit, which is represented by the ministry when it comes to building land, is aware therefore that citizens living in the space of the local self-government unit are more living with their local self-government unit and are monitoring all events of changes in spatial planning documents. I do not see what is wrong with the provision that the unit of local self-government, when it makes a decision to amend the spatial plan, informs and the competent ministry which manages the state property in order to involve other interested citizens in making changes to the relevant spatial plans, because every citizen of the Republic of Croatia in the unit of local self-government that brings any document trying to participate in any way, participate in the adoption of this spatial plan document in order to exercise his or her right, improved the existing purpose of its real estate. This should be the same for me, in the same way we treat the state, and then the ministry asks him to know about all the decisions he has changed into spatial planning documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67454	Thank you. Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, through your presentation, but also through the replica, I felt that you were in some way justifying the ministry not to manage the total state property, and that's clear. However, we are aware that economic development holders are cities, municipalities and counties, that the same investments that are currently contributing to development primarily economically occur in the territory of units of local self-government. That those units of local self-government, now you say they're making spatial plans. And in your presentation, you said you should go back to that date, you said July 24th, I don't know what year exactly, 90th, and some that all that was in the spatial plans of building land to keep it owned by units of local self-government. And I suggest that, instead of the units of local self-government, interested investors, I will not mention the investment of golf, but rather mention the investment of kindergartens that will happen in a spatial plan that is on the plot of the forest's purpose not to run in Zagreb, the Croatian Forests or the Ministry of State Property Management or the Ministry of Agriculture, but that this plot of automation, after I have obtained all the consent from all the relevant ministries and so also from the Ministry of State Property Management that this property goes to my property, i.e. manage the local self-government unit in order to realise faster and better quality investments. Because otherwise we'll be walking around five ministries again and it's all state and it's time to realize that the state is also city and municipality and county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67456	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67457	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Demtlik, I advocate that a law which has defined what is state, which is municipal, which is county and that this law today in the implementation be as simple as possible so as not to have the disputes that I was saying earlier happen because today I also claim that what is on July 24th of '91. any ownership of a local self-government unit and now it's undoubtedly hers and not that she has to prove through the state procedure that it was hers at the time, so then don't argue with me about the right of ownership. But it's pretty much what you're saying, questionable that as soon as the local self-government unit turns out to be an expansion of building land, it automatically becomes the property of a local self-government unit. I already know a large number of investments in which the state owns the right to build, part of that fee in a quarter as it was in the Coopers, I don't know if it will be realised, but the state is already on its land, respecting the fact that there the local self-government unit built the infrastructure, built a water line, a road, brought electricity, etc., resolved the issue of draining waste water to collect compensation from investors, giving a certain percentage and compensation for building a local self-government unit. As far as I understand you, if I understand you correctly, you'd think that the moment the building land is expanded on which, it would be for some kind of activity to be compensated by any sale, any real construction would be the full income of the local self-government unit. I think that, if it weren't for that, it wouldn't be good. So, if I understood you correctly, and I did so to distinguish what is state and what belongs to the local self-government unit, not to be a matter of dispute today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67458	Thank you. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67459	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bačić, when you were talking about real estate management, one of the properties that is here and this proposal mentions are actually apartments. Apartments that often, too, need local self-government to do so in some ways through the human problems they have put in place as one of the proposals for a solution. But then what do we get? These apartments in a large number of cases are in very bad shape. Here and specifically I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the state of buildings in the city of Ilock that have for years had a temporary manager where there is no solution to the question, meaning solving a complete situation where residents practically live in buildings that don't even have stairs lighting. It's a blocked system that should be opened. And for this reason, leaving this proposal to manage apartments is still being referred back to by the Ministry of State Assets again to the question of which such problems will be solved by dynamics that these tenants located in buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia finally get the possibility of setting up buildings to have no more forced manager than real ones and that investments can be made. So, that's a problem that's just never been solved so far. I see in this only a continuation of such behaviour and these are problems that should be dealt with more significantly. I think that local self-government would be much more agile, because in the end it's really citizens who live and have difficulties in their everyday lives. Here's something you should've said yourself, you've had this experience of real estate management, in fact, in some way to translate that and this, not only to pass this law but also to define how these citizens' problems will be solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67460	Thank you. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67461	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Panenić, I don't think we're talking about the same apartments, so I don't know which apartments you were thinking about in Ilock, but the basis of the Law on the sale of dwellings on which there was a tenant right has been sold and are owned by private natural persons who choose their own representative in their building and then, through this representative, negotiate a building manager who maintains common premises based on the reserve paid by each owner of that building. Therefore, the property of this building is not the job of this ministry, which is the job of the tenant who must maintain the building through the building manager. The second thing is whether the reserve is enough to maintain a facade, staircases, common spaces, and that is another question, how and how the reserved heights are prescribed for a single tenant who has a tenant right in dwellings that were before social property, which were based on the law on units of local self-government. This is where we talk about the apartments the state owns. And where the state owns it, I think this law requires us to simplify the procedure to define the holder of ownership, that there is simply nothing for me to manage except for certain needs of housing funds. I think that these apartments should be sold on the one hand as soon as possible, and on the other hand those that are important for a particular group of people who need to leave the country, leave it in the possession of the state and determine on them the amount of rent that would allow them to continue to maintain these same buildings. Here I agree with you that numerous state-owned buildings are abandoned, unsustainable and that in many apartments there are also illegal users etc. etc. So, I've already read here the total number of such apartments that are not arranged and that I think the law needs to simplify their, or edit and use or sell or give to use.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67462	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67463	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you also mentioned companies of particular interest to the Government and the Republic of Croatia, and you mentioned that in these companies, whether they are on the list of special interests and should not be guided by a good master. I continue to argue that Djuro Djakovic should have stayed on the list, as it has not been led so far by the good master, as it is seen from the financial situation in a society that is in difficulty, which does not have enough own capital for a quality market performance. And what it indicates was that it was not led by a good master's marma is the month of December when it was a congregation, when the assembly had to be postponed because a representative of the government in the assembly that particises with 38% of the ownership shares had no position to support or support the proposed capitalisation from the black steel company. It's just saying that the government didn't take a good look at the situation in this society, and that's why it's from around here, and especially because of those workers who work in special vehicles, who are primarily defenders deserve to keep every job and the government has to find a model of how to financially consolidate society so that they can perform quality on the markets. And we see that other companies that manufacture weapons are also being helped, why not then and Djury Djakovic and help the company continue to operate. And it will certainly benefit all citizens of Brod-Posavina County, and then the Republic of Croatia, so please, especially because there are no clear criteria for entering the list of companies of particular interest, because I asked it on the Committee on Legislatives, so the Secretary of State said that it would be later regulated by a regulation or by some other act. At this point, we believe that this is not a good way to treat Djury Djakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67464	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaovic, in principle, I said that I think there is no need to have two groups, but that these are societies of special national interest and that they should be cared for by the state with the care of a good master. In that sense, yesterday was asked the current morning issue of Djura Djakovic, and I think the Deputy Prime Minister said that regardless of what Djuro Djakovic fell out of such a division, that the state would continue to take good care of Đura Djakovic. And I agree with you companies such as Djuro Djakovic, such as Končar, such as Tesla, such as the Shkvers we said yesterday were companies that are extremely important for the Croatian economy. We do not have much in Croatian companies, companies that produce certain products that show about the ability of a particular country. These are certainly products that Đuro Đaković, who also works in Končar, which also work in smuggling, so also Split's Oil and other shipyards in Croatia. And I believe that the state for such companies regardless of whether they are owned, owned, in which way we must not be in a position that Croatia no longer produces any industrial product. I am sorry to tell you what the Government of Zoran Milanovic in 2011 despite the crisis and despite the recession, stopped the road construction in Croatia. If we had taken responsibility for the management of the state in 2011 or 2012, we would have continued with such conditions with a somewhat reduced intensity of building infrastructure facilities today, we would not have come into a position so that the Pelješki bridge could not be contacted by the Croatian firm. And if that were eight years ago, 10 years ago there would have been three Croatians, at least three Croatian firms that could have called the competition. Therefore, once you lose the knowledge that is in a particular company, which is happening somewhere, it is difficult to buy machines, it is difficult to buy knowledge that is established in such areas as Djuro Djakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67466	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67467	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, a few things have offered me a line to you. First of all, one that's very important, but I don't think it's done well enough in these articles between 29 and 33, which is stock management. It's not a stock management just a sale. The management of the shares is the way the owner treats that entity, it's on the trail of that replica of yours this morning, and that's something, so here's what my colleague Vlaovic was saying, it's something that needs to be defined by a special chapter. So how the state manages where the majority and minority owner is. That should be defined, not that minister like this, that minister like that. If we're passing one whole law, then one chapter needs to be defined in particular. So that's one thing. Another thing that's very important and it's military perspective and non-perspective property. The Department of Defense, together with the Minister and the President of the State, because they coordinate here, must finally bring what it is, why? Because it's a bunch of very interesting locations for both tourism and innu economic activity, and as long as the military doesn't clearly write these properties in that and in this area or in the whole of it, one piece is inoperable to me, let the state benefit it, the Office of State Property cannot act differently. It's just facts. The shares of HZMO to clear up this delusion, these are shares belonging to Croatian pensioners, exclusively by the decision of the Capital Fund's board to transfer the right to manage this ministry, they can dispose of these shares, no different. And finally I'm sorry that too much of our debate is going towards real estate, it's just one small segment of state property, and this story with local self-government units needs to be worked out far better and clearer because why? In recent times when we've donated, so unfortunately it's inefficiently used, and I mean eventually, if you give someone something, then, and conto economically, it's time to make money out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67468	Thank you. Would you like to answer, Mr. Bacic? Last spark, replica inside clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67469	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, yes, I said in the reply to the minister that it is very important that the company of special interest for which this ministry is responsible is regularly reported by the ministry but also by the ministry in whose work is part of the business. I think that one cooperation should be established how and in what way about a particular company of particular interest is managed on one side, for example, by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, if it is about HZ, Jadrolinija, the ACI and the other and how and how this ministry, which manages state property, monitors the management of the company. Therefore, there I agree with you that this should be done clearly, is it a sublegal act or is it a government regulation or in any other way but it should be quite clear. Undivided responsibility which for a particular company of particular interest, responsible for which minister and how and how. That's one thing. And the other thing, I agree with you, I mentioned 330 military in Croatia earlier on a huge, I think 50 million square meters is inactive. It is the ministry's duty to move with units of local and regional self-government into their activation, I think this law will help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67470	Thank you. Mrs. Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67471	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you mentioned that one of the major newspapers in this bill is that those properties that are in the function of schools, health institutions, etc. That I don't list everything, give it to the local self-government units as founders. I think it's a very important newspaper because we are aware of the situation on the ground where we have had the situation so far that many times it has been very clear that actually the owner should be the unit of local and regional self-government at numerous firehouses, cooperative homes or so, but the state could not have solved it but had to initiate judicial proceedings in which the unit of local self-government had to prove the legal order in order at all to succeed in the process at all, which was often impossible to prove, in part and in those areas which were affected by the war because of the work of the destroyed documentation, etc., and there were indeed many times a problem situation so that we agree that this was a big step and that it would facilitate the possibility that the unit of local self-government in this way would be easier to sign in as the owner, although I agree with you that it would not also go safely on the basis of the requirement immediately overnight but certainly better than the court proceedings. I also believe that an important newspaper is what is possible to put into function those properties that have not been solved by giving in the long term lease, which so far has not been possible for us to put in place a number of properties that have so far been abandoned, but I also have to look back on Article 68, and I believe that we are actually providing legal certainty for citizens who have bought real estate and have actually had to do so so far if it has not been solved and have bought it from the local self-government unit legally through the fight for enrolment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67472	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Jelkovac that it's a good provision, I said that I support it, there will be work in its implementation, in publishing tabular statements, let's not fool ourselves with it, but what will certainly be, that property will be then what you said, easier maintained, the owner of the local self-government units will be able to invest in it, perhaps go and lease a certain part of what has not been the case so far. Therefore, when the property is transferred to a local self-government unit in which they operate, institutions operate, companies owned by that same unit of local or regional self-government is a good provision because part of the property will be placed in an additional function, it will allow for additional maintenance income, etc., etc. So it is to support and I support it but will be knowing the state of registration of ownership on numerous properties in Croatia, compliance... With a catastrus and a land book, there'll be work to do, and I've already said that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67474	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67475	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, I welcome this bill, I think this is a good step towards better governance of state property. However, the fact is, and I see that we will all agree today that there is room until the second reading this law is even better and more enforceable and to benefit both the state and local self-government. And I think the desire of this government to make dead capital alive and living simply through this law can be if we can listen. From the local level, it is clear that we who come from the local level know very well that life is down there and that the laws and regulations are here in Zagreb and that it often comes into conflict and that we do not understand each other well, and life situations make us have to cooperate. And I see how many problems we have, say, within the boundaries of the building area, how many small particles are 50, 100 squares that are in nature already are either gardens or are usurped or unsustained. The state knows nothing but its own ownership. Who knows? He knows local self-government, the chief, the communal service, and the citizen who did it or the legal entity. Can we come to a second reading of a proposal that would resolve these relations, that the state would leave it to us, and that in tomorrow's behaviour, we could share the management of such properties if there was a sale of relationships in terms of money, to share the responsibilities to be some percentages, and in this way solve a lot of, a lot of problems that we would come to you every day to solve you. Because in legalization and everywhere, we find problems like that. Why don't we take care of the mayor, the mayor, the state, and share what we have to share. I think it would be a great and concrete help if we knew each other, and maybe before the second reading, it would be good to arrange a meeting with the mayors, the mayors of the ministry, and to suggest that they also say what they want from all of this to facilitate the procedure. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67476	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Boric, similar to what counterpart Jelkovac said, namely, the local self-government unit, if he submits a request for the ministry to issue a similar correction, because then there will be an additional one, and thank you for that, you have reminded me of that, even more. In fact, a number of properties that are on the field of a particle that is registered as state property will not be possible only to return it. The space used for the use of the same building should also be determined, so there will be parcels, so it will be necessary to carry out parceling elaborates, and there will be additional costs. So, I said that a little while ago. It is a great provision, but in the implementation it will create significant problems for both the ministry and the additional involvement of the ministry, or the ministry will leave the administrative procedure to the local self-government unit, in agreement with the local self-government unit, so that it can come into ownership of the same property, that same building as soon as possible. So I agree with you. Until the second reading, it would be good to further explain how and how this process will take place, that as soon as possible the units of local self-government come into ownership of these properties.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67478	Thank you very much. Let's continue the club debates. Mr Branko Hrg in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. A mess and ineffectiveness, two words that can be said at first in the management of state property all these years behind us. And that is why every legal solution that offers some shifts to the better and offers some solutions is welcome, regardless of what it certainly does at the moment will not be able to cover all those problems and not all the problems that are still waiting for us in the management of state property will be resolved. What I want to stress first is that some experience in managing state property in the relations of local and state level I have and it takes many years. I'll be very graphic. The military re-design programme in Križevci began during the government of Prime Minister Racan, so it continued during one and another Prime Minister Ivo Sanader's government, so it continued during Prime Minister Kosor, and was resolved during Prime Minister Oreshkovic's time, and was resolved during Prime Minister Plenkovic at the head of the ministry at the time of the newly established Minister Maric. And I can say that only this picturesque display and the intersection of solving a minor problem says how difficult this is what we are discussing here today and how it is likely to continue to be difficult. But resolving this problem between the state and local self-government in this way, in a quick, effective decision, in fact, talks about the ministry itself, talks about the government's policy, talks about the determination to start dealing with problems and to solve them. And that's why our club will support this law in the first reading. Of course, we have a lot of things that we think we should do, work on, as many have already said in the debates, and the minister has also stressed that they are carefully recording all these proposals and that we are all here together on the same job, the same plan to try to find as good, more effective a law to finally start solving what has been falling apart in Croatia all these years and offers huge opportunities. Only in this small space is one such military facility in one small town has been resolved a huge investment of private capital and social capital and some 150 new jobs have been opened and not in this social sector of the type of consumer of that set, but purely production activities. So that's the kind of thing you can do. Thank you, Minister. Here comes the contract the other day from the ministry. I have to say that the ministry was extremely effective and that it made a decision very quickly, but then we waited again for six months until the procedures for the various state institutions passed, while the attorney's office gave its opinion, while everything was done, so now here the other day came and the contract and it was finally transferred to the property of the city as property of the city. There's a lot of talk here about the ratio of local level and state level. And here, just before that, in the benches with my colleague Spnz, I'm also talking to no two bodies, it's just one thing. And the local level and the state level are all one body, the body in the extreme case without the capillary system cannot function. And this law in one good part goes that way. The article 69 solves many things that have now been often and insolvent, which have created huge problems for local self - government because it simply could not be removed from place. There was one esteemed opinion. You can solve property-legal relations with a private person, with a company, but if it's a state, there's no way, forget it, it's not gonna work out. This law sorts things out, but if this whole mechanism that's involved in this state system doesn't set up this same efficient way we're still gonna tap in place and we're still gonna be blocked. It was really never clear to me what we were doing that we were able to connect our hands, our legs, put chains, our balls and throw ourselves into the water somewhere and sink, sink, sink. And we see that we sink and bond again. Then I realized as many others as you all probably here that we simply made an inefficient system in one part because we cast doubt at all. And now everyone suspects everything. God did not give a minister or head of local self - government a decision to solve such a problem, and ten of them would immediately report it. And here's your problem. And what's going on? Everything stays, it stops, it stops, and it grows, and it all wonders why something isn't solved. Even today in the debates, we often listen in advance before we even came to the lawmaking process, let alone the implementation of it, we already know in advance where there is going to be something. So let the institutions that do this job when someone does something illegal deal with it and sanction it. But if there won't be any decision-making, then we won't do anything. And I think that's the biggest problem that we in the Croatian state have. So local self-government and state level must not repeat being two sides. I think there's still some work to be done here, it was yesterday, and on the road road board, the municipal infrastructure, there were mentions of mountain homes. I'm going to add more sports facilities here in the local environments, you've got big problems in the villages where you're talking about the state, where maybe they're in some old school, some football club does something of its own. It's all hard to solve. And it still needs to be added as that supplement that should be automatically rewritten to local self-government, automatically with as little paper as possible. It exists, and it is also suspected whether or not local self-government will manage the property. So let us not doubt one another. And these people in representative bodies and local self-government leaders have responsibilities under the law. Therefore, the law defines that a local self-government unit must make a real estate and property programme and must have a list of those assets. If some local self-government unit didn't do it, so we have a resolution ministry, let's sanction them because they didn't enforce the law. Let's work this out. And we can't generalize, we can't generalize it. I know there are such units of local self-government that they didn't do it, but my God, let them respect the law, they have a responsibility under the law. In this part of the law, it is very important to me that these three documents, which are spoken of here, are a seven-year strategy, because in four years, definitely as the minister and stressed, there is nothing strategic that can be planned specifically as it enters some period of office, and then you know that every new mandate is going if we change power from the beginning because it is the new smartest of all those who were before him. The second thing is that it is an annual plan and a programme, and the third thing is that a report on the implementation of that annual plan and programme is given. It means very important things. All these must also be transferred at the obligation of units of local self-government, let them do the same for all that they have of property and thus increase efficiency. I want to open another problem here, and often the concept of apartments is highlighted here. I'm not going to go into all that other stuff right now, and a lot of people have already talked about it, and they're going to talk about it. The concept of apartments. I want to connect this property that the state has in apartments with one problem that the state also has and that is not beginning to solve, and it is related to 2300 families in the Republic of Croatia. It's about tenants living in apartments that were returned to the owners they were once taken from, but the tenants have tenants' rights, the tenants are protected. These people are being discriminated against. They're not allowed to buy an apartment. On the other hand, owners also have a problem because they can neither charge economic rent nor do anything with their apartment. One recommendation is to the ministry and the overall government to see that this move to address housing issues owned by the state also shows the possibility of solving at least one part of this problem, to offer people some alternative apartments that the state owns, to free private owners of their apartments, and that these people who will eventually want to take such apartments into those apartments on the other hand and that they can buy them out. On the other hand, the sale of these apartments may calm those owners who may not want to rent, may want to sell, or will let the tenants handle it. So we've got that extra part of the problem. I'm gonna go over here a little while while I'm at the flats to emphasize some of the nebuloses that have been done. We had a situation where before 2000, the state gave municipalities and cities of apartments with protected tenants who couldn't buy apartments. About three years ago, it seemed to me that the same state took apartments along with the same residents of local self-government. Well, I don't see the point of something like that at all. Now in this case I think it should be returned but given to the ownership of local self-government units, given that it was said yesterday on the board, it was spoken, I listen to what the local self-government units and the budgets of local self-government ultimately constitute a consolidated budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's all in there. I think that the old man really needs to take a really good look at you once again, define what it is to be of national strategic interest, what it is to be, where it needs to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it has to be, what it really does to be, what it really is to be, what it really is to be, that it has to be, that it has to be, that it has to be, what the State Department has to do with it. I think we'd run something here, but I repeat, I'm going to end it in some way. I had another proposal in my article just a little bit to find him, an add-on to the asset allocation and the assessment, the asset assessment. My men, let's let the property assigned to local self-government release the evaluation of private appraisers. Let's do this, let the IRS do it. They've got the charts they're gonna do it on and let it go that way. So we're estimating ourselves, we're going to pay again and VAT and the cost of working for what? And it's the same owner. That's one suggestion to supplement something like that, and that part, so we see that one relief is made, to speed up the process, and to really start to have more efficient control of that property. I don't doubt your tenacity and efficiency, and with all these additions and suggestions that he has in one production and addition of an even better proposal of this law, even in his final realization. We will support the law in this form, and we ask you to support the suggestions given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67481	Thank you. We have a few replicas. First Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67482	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrg, I sign everything you've discussed and said. I believe we're slowly touching the point of an ever-increasing degree of understanding. I believe and see that the minister and his associate listen carefully and very carefully, and it is very important to point out once again that the local level and state level have the same goal, that we are one body and that we must all act together in the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Now I'm going to go back to the replica of my colleague Shucker who said that we shouldn't just look at it in his replica when he said in the context of stock traffic, so I'm going to get attached to article 68 and repeat again. The investor when it appears first needs to be seen that the purpose of its business interest is in line with the spatial-planning documentation. After that, he goes to the owner to settle his property-legal relations so he can get a building permit. That's why I point to article 68 through a concrete example. A tourist company is coming to town, wants to build a hotel. Today's the new standards. He needs a bigger garden. It solves property-legal relations and real estate traffic, which should be observed much wider. Investment happens, new workers are hired, added value is created, tourism traffic is growing, income growth is either for state or local level, and article 68 says we're going to penalize you now because you have to pay back the money to the state. Wrong, let's make it right!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67483	My colleague Sponza, you know that I can't give my word to my colleague Shuker to answer you, and you and your colleague Hrga agree. Tell me what to do now. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67484	I'll just say one thing here, because I have nothing to say since you said you agree. But we, on the one hand, each and every one of us in his or her living and acting in his or her own place is watching a little bit of the law. And it's very difficult for us to put it in general on one national level, which is normal. And in that part again, we might not even get along in one part, because I could say that it's not the same when something is, that property is either in Rovinj or in the Križevci. It's different. That's why it's hard to find this, probably just one straight line of demarcation of that part, and that's why it has to be strategically determined what's important, which is the state's interest, where the state will work, and where local self-government will work. And then we will come up with an answer that will be nearly satisfactory for both you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67485	Yeah, I mean, since it hasn't been said that there's no break today. So no food today, no lunch, we're going on. Mr. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67486	Dear fellow, I think we've been dealing with one wrong term here all day. We're all talking about some kind of giving, some kind of donation. No one gives anything to anyone, no one gives anything to anyone. Not a city, not a municipality, not a mayor, not a captain, not a property for the city, not a property for himself. So he's looking for something for his citizens, for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And if we look at today's debate that the Republic of Croatia is a city and a municipality, one body and one soul, we throw out those deputies we, you, them, are on the right track. Why am I saying that? Because here you need to use the right term, and it's called management. The management of state property means that the state leaves something to the management of the local self-government unit to exploit it. So, not that the Republic of Croatia earns money for the city and the municipalities to pay, but for the city and the municipalities in the area to make an investment, for the space to do something that its citizens need, for the economy to develop, and for the economy to fill the state budget, for the budget of the unit of local self-government. And to me, the only purpose of this law is that. If we're going to argue in a way that the city or municipality has to pay the state something, then we're not on the right track. And being a minister, being in the mayor's seat means making a decision. The decision can sometimes be wrong, it can be right, but if you don't make it, you haven't done anything. And in that part, I understand and support the minister when he takes on so much responsibility that he can dispose of more property than he's ever had since these millions of kunas or through the commission. I'll give you one example, I hope I have enough time. The ice is abandoned, there's nothing to do with 150 thousand squares. Offered according to the assessment of the court expert by the company 6 million kuna The CERP has been seeking the opinion of the State's Attorney's Office for two years now. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you, Mr. Klaric.]] It's the difference between giving and managing and making decisions and it needs to be changed by this law and then we're on the right track. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67487	Thank you. Mr. Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67488	Thank you very much. So I've been talking all the time about the transfer, the transmission, and you're absolutely right when you're apostropheing this so that we and them, you and them, etc. There isn't. It's definitely about this one phenomenon in Croatia that turned up that no one wants to make a decision and take responsibility because they're afraid that tomorrow someone's not criminalizing him and closing him up. And that's how it is. I mean, why keep quiet about it? We in Croatia today have the laws that for the same thing you did, whether as a minister, a state official, whether as head of local self-government, that you can get an unaccountable reward for life's work and on the other hand someone will put you in jail. That's how we live. And it's normal that everything is blocked out and that no one wants to make decisions anymore. That's why I'm looking forward to this kind of approach to the proposal of this law of the Minister where, despite all this, practically what you've said takes over, he's putting himself in charge and wants to solve problems. And that problem should start to apply to God, because we'll definitely still have the kind of ice you're talking about and we won't. Oh, that's a big back. And when you can't solve a 150-square ficle, so you have a 40-million-dollar project, it's a little bigger problem, and there are thousands of them. And you're absolutely right when I say that. So I agree with no donations, no one gives anyone anything, but transfer and ownership and responsibility, and those three things have to be passed on to local self-government and strategy and annual programme and report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67489	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67490	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Hrg, to listen to you and listen to Minister Maric. Such a mess for 25 years in the state that no one has tried to figure it out until today. It is, but it isn't. Turns out he didn't. As much as we can talk about it, it is, but everything else is unsolved. Of course, here you have spoken to the Prime Minister one, the other, solving your problem in your community. It means that in this country, and in fact, it's the legacy of that state that didn't catastrianally and grantically do anything. I've already seen it in my community, I've seen it. The whole village is green. Of course, here's the law now, and Minister Maric has caught up with that problem. I know that there will be a lot of opponents who may have planned to do something that would be of interest to their interests. We don't do our best in fact in a mess, not in the right way that I think it's good, that there's one way to make a strategy, to sell these spaces, to rent at prices as adequate as it should be. And that's okay. I think it'll be a big problem, but you'll find a solution. I don't know, because I've never been to the Parliament before, I haven't met with that. I think we live in a mess very well, individuals, not people, but individuals. Well, I guess it's a lot of this mess and I personally as a man and an entrepreneur thank God we're going to go in order in the country, make a legal state, and then the whole nation will benefit from all of this that you've all talked about together in which I personally support you. Without it, we'll swim, swim, and so for 50 years, you've said all kinds of resorts and all kinds of camps where leaf collectors got to collect leaves, maintain but abandoned. I saw it myself at sea. So thank God we're going that way and I hope that's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67491	Thank you. Mr. Horg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67492	Well, it's not that finding that nothing has been done and worked to the end is correct. There are situations and cases and programs where some things have been dealt with, but it is true that all this has not been solved by the intensity that this should be and that the effects that you are talking about have not been achieved. There was some awkwardness, and there was a transfer of ownership to local self-government, so today you have a situation that nothing has been done, that nothing has moved. You know it's a certain kind of fraud. If you've given a program to sign up with that program, you wrote in that program what you're going to do. Based on that program, you got property for, say, business zones. And then maybe after that, you got the infrastructure money in that business zone, and then nothing else. Now there's grass to be mowed. You know, that's the responsibility. And on the other hand, it means not just from one side and there's a little bit of a problem in that part everywhere. One period in Croatia was all wanted to do business zones for God's sake. Every municipality had a business zone in space. Oh, great, great thing, but we know it doesn't work like that, it's just not something real that can be expected. There was a mistake, say, in that part of the country that she accepted it that way, it didn't go a little bit more thoroughly to cut it down to say and analyze it. And then a little stop. Now we have what we have, but in any case what you said in the end and I said that, we will support the law because we think this is a good step towards starting a general solution to the problem of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67493	Thank you. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67494	Comrade Hrg, you have touched a very interesting topic, because this law, its intensity, is to practically pull the maximum out of what the Republic of Croatia has. And what you're saying, I think the goal is what we're all thinking, that not everything about Zagreb, Rijeka, down there is the coastal part, but simply that those who have an idea, who have the desire and the ability to develop something, are simply to do it. Because for the time being, unlike some of the past, we have had one great opportunity, and these are European funds for municipal equipment. And so when you were talking about giving for this or that, it's all defined in Article 69. However, I do not replicate the Minister, but I will say this through a replica to you, I think Article 69(2) should be regulated by the Regulation only to make it more effective, that whoever submits a request based on Article 69(2) to apply on the exact prescribed form and on the basis of that requested request to obtain a solution because if that is not done in such a way, if the Implementing Regulation is not made, you will have chaos if you will have a thousand ways to submit, so here through a replica of your suggestion to the Proposer. And one more thing, you touched it. The legacy of some time and some other system, our companies in which we have the most property at this time, namely some companies that we leave to own very valuable assets have a lot of assets that are not subject to core business, and I think that simply that property should be separated from them and left to the market and exploit the market because if we don't do so I said that we should define Article 2 more clearly what the property is, then I don't think we're going to do the right thing. And you've run this story well, and you and your colleague, Sponza, as far as the local self-government unit is concerned, it doesn't matter who gets the money, it's a new job, and it's important to increase GDP, and that means that it's a good thing for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67495	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67496	I also mentioned the need to add to the article 69 means transport and municipal infrastructure and it was said yesterday and on the committee itself and mountaineering homes, I don't know, I've added more sports facilities in the middle, but I agree in this part and this is not a good idea for it to be really defined by one rule to whom and in what way it goes. As for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or owned by the Republic of Croatia, I didn't say anything about it, but I'm going to say one sentence here now. We really need to specify in detail what strategic companies are and what companies are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. All else simply let's have the strength to make a decision let's sell those shares that we think can function better on the market in normal practice than the state manages it. Let's figure out what it is and get into it. And in this part of the part that you're talking about, I absolutely agree that there's property that in these companies is not core business, which just as such collapses in some way, it's not managed well, it's the same thing. That's why I said that this law is actually a good step, but that surely by making it, we won't be able to solve everything, but we're going to take a good step and we're going to do some more things in the walk that will have to be done to get to the final goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67497	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is colleague Hrg, the goal of all of us and in this debate is that the property available was in the state, the cities, and our personal property to be in as good a position as possible. Normally, all over certain times the needs of certain assets and available means change. So even at this time, I would not say that nothing was done as it is characterized that it was not quite available, that it was not put into operation perhaps not quickly enough, and we also see it from our examples of local self-government where we did not have listed property, where it was still and I agree with you that the strategy and annual reports and purposes and plans should be put in place, because then it will all be expensive to encourage local self-government to think about whether something is ballast, whether something better can be put in place because more heads know more, therefore there will certainly be some interested party or investor who is going to want to do something somewhere, and then all of them can be much better together. So I certainly support this article in 19th for application in local self-government because experience so far shows that it has a lot of property, and we can say that as units, as citizens, that we may sometimes not function properly and that sometimes it is ballast instead of being our driver of development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67499	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67500	Dear colleagues, all these assets and local property owned by municipalities and cities and those owned by state, companies by various ministries or state-owned enterprises, are all state-owned property. And now I'm just going to upgrade this because you basically gave me an idea, both municipalities and works, but also companies and ministries that have some property of a resorient type and companies owned by the state, all have to make that program and pull that vertical to the ministry. I'm saying these three things might be the strongest and most important thing right now. If that's how we set things up and the analysis is done annually, we'll see who's mastering, who's not mastering, who's putting in office, who's not putting in office. We'll have arguments to tell someone not to harass us because they didn't do what you were supposed to do and you just can't manage it anymore, you're not capable of managing it. There will be terrible resistance, there will be a variety of problems, but there is now that thing that we give support to people who do it, who will do it because they can't do it without that support. That's just the way it is, and we need to change public opinion in that direction. What's our interest? That every man we criminalize or say that nothing is solved or that we give people the opportunity to finally start solving something so that I can say look at people, new jobs, new objects, new projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67501	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Tully Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67502	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll look back on that part of your discussion about the apartments. You mentioned certain and I'll mention some more of which we may have left out, and they're also left out in this law. It is those apartments that are not privatised or sold, which remained owned and managed by local self-government units until 3 years ago and after a decision was taken by the government, these apartments were transferred to state property. The tenants in those apartments have normal orderly contracts with the state. The local self-government units that were up-to-date gave this orderly documentation to the state. You've got local self-government units that didn't do it, and they're normally renting these apartments today. And now the question is, what you said, suspicions in some local self-government that respect laws and those that don't respect laws. who break them. And now the state instead of having instruments in which those who don't respect the laws to punish them, then it makes new laws exactly because of them to get someone in line and then again pay all those who have done their duties neatly. So these apartments today run by the state, unfortunately someone dies, someone stays empty. Believe me, the government doesn't know local self-government units where these apartments are and who's in those apartments. And the local self-government unit has a duty and an obligation to solve its social problems, to solve Croatian defenders, to solve I will say the human questions. All rural areas, settlements, cities and municipalities that need a doctor to come I don't know about Lika or Slavonia and there is no such apartment to offer, simply that doctor won't come there. And that's exactly what the slow one is again. And we say we don't need to transfer property, but let's transfer the ability to manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67503	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67504	Well, I've talked about apartments before, and I've mentioned exactly the phenomenon that happened with this sudden taking away something that was cared about, even a part of that money was being paid into the state budget from the rents of these protected tenants. That move was never as clear to me as we were to say the clear moves of that State's Attorney's office, that property-law department that sub prescribed property to the state without informing the local self-government that was the beneficiary. It's an amazing thing. And it's someone on the one hand who makes such a decision, just does it, and you have poor employees in those services, and they do it. So they copied parks, squares, cemeteries, I don't even know private houses. And then what happens? Then we find out. Now I'm saying and now I'm going to sort out a little bit of local level. And then there goes the lawsuit. And there was a dispute, and then the local self-government lawyers outsmart themselves with the attorneys of the State's Attorney's Office, all of it, if it lasts and lasts, and people have a terrible efficiency in the business. That's why I started arguing mess and ineffectiveness. That's two words that we can characterize this and we did it ourselves. We did it ourselves. And I just don't believe it can be arranged. But I repeat again, responsibility must be on those who need to implement something, reports must be, analyses must be and sanctions must ultimately be. Without that, there's no effect, there's no effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67505	Thank you very much. We move on to the next Club of Representatives and that's the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67506	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I actually said in plural, but there is only one colleague in the hall right now. Good and quality governance of state property is certainly one of the important assumptions for the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia, this is really one important topic concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia because we talked about the property of the Republic of Croatia and the property of the units of local self-government, we are actually talking about the property of all our citizens. I think this debate has already shown and that after me the debate will show that no one is satisfied with the current situation as it has been done, primarily because of the accumulated problems and I will somehow keep one dose of caution with this bill so that it can bring a real turn in this matter. But surely this law proposes solutions that go in the right direction. What should also be commended at the beginning that this bill has its basis in the Government programme which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament because the Government programme contains the activation and better management of state property, which is certainly what this law is trying to do. I am the proponent of clarifications in the bill and explains that it has been done in the making of a new law because the analysis of the previous problems and shortcomings have been identified and that it needs to be changed to make it more efficient to have state property. The biggest expectations and this debate shows, there is local self-government. I don't think there's a city or municipalities in the state that didn't have any problem with the state property, that they didn't ask any of the Ministers or the Secretary of State how to put any property in their area into operation. Well, there's also a Committee on Local Self-Government, which I'm a member of Parliament, and he's had thematic sessions, and there's been a number of recommendations, demands. In fact, it kind of seems real to me that local leaders are the most interested in changing things. It showed this debate where we have one side coalition of all local leaders who smoke in the same direction. This assembly of parliament has raised this debate or by managing state property to the level of the ministry, and I think that the move that has been made is good and that it is starting to pay off, and I would like here in my debate to highlight some things and to point out when we see that the mayors, the mayors who have certain political power and can reach the minister through several mandates of efforts to solve a problem then imagine some ordinary citizen who has no political power and has no knowledge as much as he still needs to solve a problem. On the other hand, I say, we should be aware of the problems the ministry faces. I'd like to point out three things in my debate. First, the bill commends me as well as a solution to the problem of a large number of people who bought or owned their houses or bought apartments in buildings, and where the owner of the Republic of Croatia is. They bought this from local self-government units and they did not become owners and could not become owners because the real owner of the Republic of Croatia was in practice being owned jointly by the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government units. This absurd situation is most often caused by absurd practices in the past, where due to the Agricultural Land Act, it is mainly because of it, which is in '91. all placed under the property of the Republic of Croatia, huge plots became owned by the Republic of Croatia even though they were in '91. One part was building particles, but until today between local self-government and the state was not resolved. These particles have not been parched, these particles have not been resolved, i.e. property law relations between the state and local self-government have not been resolved and citizens have become hostages or between the state and local self-government. I personally went to the ministry to be interested in several such concrete cases where people for ten years were trying to solve their problem, so they bought the country, they actually bought their own house on the ground, but they couldn't become owners, they couldn't compete for European funds, for rural tourism, they couldn't start any business because they couldn't become owners precisely because of these unresolved relationships. I said that the only solution is either to change the law or to send a manager and to tear down that house because the status quo is certainly not the solution. And that is why it is good that the ministry has decided to resolve the problem in the sense of eradicating the provision of good faith which is a presumption of the recognition of ownership rights on such particles. And my proposal to the promoter is to consider perhaps in that provision eradicating that they have acquired this by buying through a public tender or ministry certainly has the best insight into this problem in view of a large number of requests, but I appeal that in fact now that we are changing the law so that we do not fail to solve all such problems because some citizens may have gone to some legal business or to a division or anything, and that it was not buying through a public tender so that they would not be left out on this train that goes to the impromptu solution. I think we should use and solve it now, if not all, but then 99% of those cases. I would also ask the Proposer to consider maybe extending the plea for a settlement that is now set on 31.12 this year. It's hard for me to imagine that someone will continue to judge the state when the state offers a solution, but I'm saying that there would be no such situation, and I think maybe we should consider extending that deadline for another year. Another thing I would like to say, and what is a big newspaper in this law is that it has already been said that all real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia on 1 January 2017 will be in the nature of schools, homes, firehouses and the like become the property of local self-government units, I also consider it a very good solution. One move will solve a lot of things. I think we're gonna stop this situation from getting municipalities and cities begging the state to give them something. Personally, I am also familiar with specific items that take several years to donate to a home or building of a school, which is essentially very important for the municipality, and the state doesn't even know that this property exists, especially in the light of European funds where such facilities want to run through measures through European funds in order to bring them to their end. I believe that the proposer here should consider proposals and the Association of Cities, as well as the Committee on Local Self-Government, which may extend that list to apartments and to clarify, for example, whether it is in the nature to use it now or something that may have been used as a firehouse or a school, because it would not be good, because we have very much in the war-related areas of the municipality that have, for example, a firehouse, but the roof is collapsed and it is not used as a firehouse, it is owned by the state. Does such a firehouse fall under this provision? It would be good to clarify, if not to make it more clear that it really is, that it goes in that direction that the unit of local self-government becomes the owner because it actually belongs to it. What, the third thing that he actually wanted to talk to here, which is a disputed relationship with the property that's the subject of a succession. I also asked the vice-presidents of the government yesterday, Mrs. Martini Dalic, about the law on incentives and investment, on economic inactive property. Here, this Law on State Property Management, therefore, opens up the possibility, gives authority to the Ministry of State Property, so that it can dispose of real estates, which are therefore subject to a succession, which have a note, a ban on availability, until an appropriate international contract is concluded. So, this conclusion of an appropriate international contract, the Ministry is authorized to lease a multi-year lease or some other form of asset availability, which we know has no solution to ownership legal relations. The proposer explains this objective, activate, economic inactive property, which is legitimate and commendable that the state wants it. But if we know it's an asset that doesn't actually have a settled ownership legal relationship and that a potential investor can go to invest or maybe even expect and support or maybe even go with the thought and assuming he buys that property, we can get into trouble. On the other hand, we have legitimate expectations, some legal entities, which are entitled to this property, which can go with litigation suits. So maybe we could solve one problem, activate an economically inactive asset and open up 10 long problems. As I said, legitimately and commendably, that the state wants to activate the property economically, but here, we can fall into the trap of the expectations of the investor who will invest in the property, have therefore, investments, which can disrupt the ownership of the legal relationship. Especially if we take into account that this provision is principled, which opens up that possibility, that we do not have explicit work and in any way, and the protection of ownership legal relations, whatever they are. The position of the SDSS Club is here that we really need to be careful and primarily respect the Law on Confirmation of Concentration Contracts. And I appeal, therefore, to the Minister, that he is appealing to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs and to the Government as a whole to do everything on our part, that to international contracts, which would finally resolve this Gordian asset node, was concluded as soon as possible, so as to close all possible... about this question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the end of his presentation, he would say again what the minister said at the beginning of today's day when he represented the law, the minister said that ownership of us was less protected than an illegal protest. I can only agree with that. I think from personal experience, that the real situation is like that and I think that part of the debate is going in that direction to confirm what I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67507	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the SDP, on behalf of which he will speak, respected representative Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister with an associate. In front of us today is the proposal of the Law on State Property Management, meaning a whole new law, first reading, I think that the debate was correct, all morning, very argumentative, without any elevated tones, quite professional and in such a way the minister set himself up and I think it's quite commendable. Because when a little passion is released, in general, when these problems come out, which are unfortunately visible and we as a society, we still haven't come out of transition, because this is evidence, that after having an independent state, which had institutions, a number of institutions, that these simply, these institutions, the simple legacy of the past, had no power, to solve a number of relationships that are very complicated. I will especially, my dear colleague, was actually saying something, especially on this I will warn at the final part of the exhibition, precisely because, because I come from one small town of Gradec, a beautiful Dalmatian place, here and my colleague Orepic says that he is flying there and thanking the minister for being there and being and seeing what he actually saw, how one small place, just 17 objects, 25, 6, 7 years old, just rots, and with him he actually rots that place. We have a demographic, negative picture, young people leaving, they can't be hired, we just have a negative, a whole negative cycle, and the question is, can we take it any more, that way we can take it? And you can't actually anymore, there's even jokes to see, the last time there was nothing going on since Austro-Hungarian. It's just that the whole you, it's such a complicated situation, that there's a question of how to solve it. Here, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll, But I certainly believe that certain steps are necessary. Here the minister in his presentation, i.e. the explanation, has already given a lot of answers, to these questions, which we were actually asking at the SDP Club, I will brief them on and say our opinions. The law states that, for the sake of greater efficiency, faster decision-making, in the management of state-owned assets, it is proposed to abolish the Commission's disposal of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia and the Government's Commission for the Management of Strategic Commercial Companies, and to make increasingly important decisions on state property management, values above 7.5 million kuna are made by the government, while other decisions are made by the Minister of State Property. Here, too, many times, my colleague Bulj, asked if these were too many powers, so only on the other hand, he heard that such powers, actually, have appointed chiefs. However, it is very clear here, at that time that the government had no special unit, in this case the ministry logically that they were commissions. And that's how committees tried to solve these problems through different sectoral ministers. It's very clear here, I don't think there are any unmistakable conversations, we have a new ministry, we have a new structure and a government decision to try to solve it as quickly as possible, which is an effective way of doing it, and for me personally, there's no doubt about it. It is your decision, and I believe that if you consider whatever you consider to be of some kind of weight, that something is bothering you in that work, that you do, you clean up that part, and in that context I am personally speaking to you because we now believe that there is a special ministry that will deal with this property, even though these commissions are making it difficult for him to work, here the minister has been saying how much these processes can turn and how much it actually lasts. In this context, I find it justified that the minister who pointed out this and that is, in fact, the government's view that he can organise his part of the job. However, what we have actually tried to point out here on this transparency that is in principle, there is an article 15 that speaks about the principle transparency of the whole of these proceedings, so it has repeatedly been said to me that all the decisions that are actually going to be made, including only the record that it will be public and ultimately, when a new draft on the central register of state property comes, it seems to me that you have also told me that you will be public, so that in this context we accept such an explanation and in this way that we have pointed out again more transparency, you have accepted this and that you have even said that in this work and in the new proposal of the law on the central register of state property which will be transferred to the Central State Office for the Development of the Digital Society will be made public so that in this context you are not only the Club of Representatives of the SDP but also accepted and other clubs that I do not think that it should be more in this context. It is also stated here that the draft law regulates the management of temporarily seized property in criminal proceedings, which was referred to only in one paragraph of one article, because that substance was regulated by the Act on the Abuse of Assets Procedure and the infringement which ceased to apply in the meantime. I agree that such forms of property should be available in particular if they were criminal proceedings or customs administration, when I was a minister, we know a very large number of objects and vehicles and some other objects that came into the possession of the Ministry of Finance, so then some commissions were assigned to some vehicles, I think now everything belongs to you, I think it's good, that it's centralized in one place, and that all forms of property to which the state comes into possession, are actually being channeled to you and you're actually managing it, in one place you'll have a list of all these assets and not actually go from one ministry to another ministry. We welcome, we were told here about decentralisation and how all properties owned by the Republic of Croatia in particular by such properties as schools, homes of health, hospitals and other institutions as founders of local and regional (regional) self-government and used for educational and health purposes, parks, playgrounds, sports-recreation facilities, sports playgrounds and all other, social homes etc. enrolment in the ownership of JLRS depending on whose jurisdiction the establishment of certain institutions is. Here we have repeatedly said that this is a step forward but here we have also heard of this second part of the IDS Club where if it is later found that it was actually a state, that this should actually later go to the budget. I agree here that even here today has opened up the possibility of a second reading in a way that would not be a burden to local self-government units. I think you've also learned that, and that you'll also see until the second reading of what will be done. Perhaps regarding these evaluators, there were also speeches here today, in Articles 30, 38 and 53, we may be having a clear discussion about the fact that a certain excessive burden is placed on assessors or court experts unless real estate and movables or shares or business shares are sold in the first round. In that case, the percentage of the reduction is practically decided by the appraiser at the first time, the second time the appraisal is changed. Here at the Executive Act just to make a note, one parallel of the Executive Act is done, the same are actually similar to certain problems, and then it's defined that in such sales the first round is estimated value, in the second round is reduced by 1/3 values, in the third round it's sold by 50%. So that's where you should see if you can make some kind of connection to that executive law and when you sell some other forms of this property. Look, when you have a real estate market and you don't have real estate traffic, the question is, there will always be some sort of assessment of how much the market value of individual properties and especially shares and shares in certain companies is worth. We know that there are certain shares that are not traded at all on the market so that there are always certain problems and ask the public how much it is worth. And you're always worth exactly how many interested people there are, or how much interest there is, how much market interest there is. So just so we don't get into that always-demagogic demagogue of what it's worth then it can reblock the ministry's functioning even though it establishes good wishes to put that part into operation, put it on the market. It's always actually worth so much, always the ones who've never actually dealt with it, always later get to know how much it should be worth. But in the end, I would come to this question, and there were actually speeches here, and I'm telling you because I come from a small town called Gradac, so where is it burdened with all these real estates and relationships that, unfortunately, I haven't been able to solve for 27 years? And in order to put these properties into operation, it is more actually when you see the whole relationship in Croatia for 27 years you have been constantly talking about putting real estate into operation, right? And then we tried a variety of different laws, so I don't know which one they remember well is the one, it was the property tax that wasn't used on the used land, so the Constitutional Court later abolished it, so when actually the fellow Linic was actually an instance of introducing a property tax exactly progressively taxing those properties that weren't in office. In this way the property tax function should have put all the property into function. And we're actually talking about now that a technical law is trying to solve a certain one, which has failed to resolve the policy. So the issue of succession and relations with our neighbours is actually a political issue. I really thank the Minister, and I think the Ministry of State Property, personally when he asks me, when we're talking about this today, the number one ministry right now when we're talking, when we see how much trouble there is actually in the state, and here we've only reached real estate, we've only touched real estate and we haven't opened the issue of either Petrochemia, or Djura Djakovic, or many other companies that should have actually been restructured, etc. etc. etc. Unfortunately, we see that this transition from Croatian society, the economic transition is not yet actually made. And then there's always a question when you see such large systems as I have to mention him to Agrokor and private property which in such a way actually... the question is always whether it is state or private, etc. Property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there should never be a question of ownership and governance, the issue of governance. The state can be a good manager if there are good and responsible people who manage the system. Never, ever have it been that doctrine just put it on the market, the market will solve it all, the various managers who come with the bags agree certain loans, something device, after a few years there's no one around. So what happens again anyway? It happens that such companies don't pay government or taxes at all, not especially when it comes to tourist down facilities, don't pay certain residence fees, don't go into certain investment activities, then the question is again that the state must react again and again. And here you should actually always actually talk about governance, because you also have state-owned companies that can be good managers with their assets, if they are responsible, if there are clear goals, if there are also government support. Here's the question of what you fellow Milosevic have well opened, the question of how now on this part, the technical part that I say thanks to the minister for trying to put that property into office. Because look, putting this property into function is growing local budgets. Why? Because someone's paying communal fees. To this day never, these facilities have been paid by anyone for 27 years. On the other hand, locals are employed and a certain part begins, preventing certain demographic, demographic emigration. On the other hand, investment is also encouraged and all of these are certain positive trends that intend to place assets in place. However, what you have actually opened this question is a political question that is unfortunately considered too long in Croatia puts aside and then in a desire to actually encourage investments, because look it would be good to calculate as much in Croatia, and we see according to this portfolio of state assets as they are, what are the values. I can honestly, maybe this way and layly guarantee two to three percent of GDP a year only from state property. If the overall function, not only of the state, has the state, but also of the local administration, would be in office. Here's a thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] I hope to answer through a replica, but here I hope through these questions that we'll get to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67509	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67510	Dear fellow Lalovec, I could replicate a lot, but let's go here. You mentioned the evaluation and the court expert. Who can assess the value of some land in an area, and in what way? Better than whoever has all the information on what's been going on in the past year, two, three in that space, on the market than the IRS. So this court expert, when he comes to evaluate something, must take some kind of parameters. The only difference between a court expert and the IRS, you have to pay this witch, and it always goes as far as my experience is on the burden of local self-government units, and you don't have to pay the IRS because it's yours. That's one thing. You mentioned that this is a technical law, trying to solve something that has failed to resolve politics. Yeah, but that policy needs tools to work something out. And exactly what the minister has now prepared with his associates is this tool that should address these issues. We're gonna try to give suggestions through this debate which would be better and to make it better. And I thank you, too, for touching yourself as an opposition club to this particular problem that we all point out. I am convinced that this will consensually be all parties from the entire Republic of Croatia in the area of the unit of local self-government when it comes to this article 68th and paying something to the state. Who are you paying? I got myself something from something you earned on something you needed to put into office. Because the activation of that property doesn't mean just what you said that it means to increase the budget of the local self-government unit, that it means some communal fee and everything. Far more than that, it means filling the state budget, and then using the state budget to service everything else needed to further develop the state. And that's one symbiosis I've been talking about all along. The state, the ministry, the county, the cities, the municipalities, each other need to be a service to that ultimate goal, to move forward, to fill the budget to open up investments and put those fields into some kind of function.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67511	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, a small remark, what the IRS and the evaluators are doing, has nothing to do with each other. It doesn't matter, the IRS, it doesn't, it doesn't estimate the value, it doesn't have its appraisers. Maybe you didn't know that. The IRS doesn't estimate, so it works for you, it doesn't do the appraisers as it goes out on the field and does the assessment as the appraisers do. They have your data means in their register, how much it costs you, how certain contracts are, because you're the only one who comes to the IRS, but doesn't do an assessment. Because you have an estimate, it may be an estimate that around your land there is something worth 1,500, and in fact, there is actually a hole in it. And you know a very good case that was and there's been a trial. Was there an assessment of the IRS on the other hand, where it was thought to be, and on the other hand, what one other state institution said, that it doesn't matter, that one of those two things is not the same. But about that, later on, but honestly I'm telling you, the IRS doesn't do it. On the other hand, with a tool, very good, here's a question, 30 years of renting something, we said, these objects. Great, someone will come, very few who have some of their own capital to invest in such a hotel to restore it. What are they gonna look for? They're gonna ask for a loan. Right? The state's gonna rent it to him for 30 years, and he's gonna ask for a loan, so what's the bank gonna look for first? The bank will be asked to sign up on... Right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On real estate. Now the question is, so you have it, and we want to solve it, and now we come with some papers tomorrow, so people, what are you doing? What I want is answers in which way, if that part, be careful, the investor needs to come into it, so he knows if he'll be able to buy it after 30 years at all. Who's going to invest, be inside without ultimately wanting to have the right to the first ransom. So it's not simple these specific questions. They're a technical step forward that's starting to work out. However, without politics, without leaving the president, again when he goes to the region and to say we have a fundamental problem in Croatia and that we also have to do with our properties in our country. Let's sit down and start solving them that way, then just.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67513	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67514	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, in your debate you've touched a little tax policy, which is when it comes to real estate is extremely important. It's extremely important when it comes to property. So, what was on several occasions the proposal, one proposal which the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has annulled the proposal, which was for unbuilt building land, are so-called. position rents, which have some other countries in the German area, which says that you pay in relation to undeveloped building land, as if real estate had been built on it, which allows for a spatial plan. But what was the wish and fellow Linic, I must say, when he went with the Real estate tax law, I opposed that part, but there is one part for which there may be a consensus. And these are properties, which are not disputed owners, so it's not and I'm talking about tourist properties, which he didn't put into office. The example is ideal for Halud. So Halud's not a controversial owner, you know exactly who he owns. There's also a plan that's in effect, and it's known exactly what he can get. He has a communal fee, regulated by the basis of the current law, in a way, that since it is not in the post of pay minimum. He pays it once a year, everything he says, it's going to be about, so no one's gonna take my word for it, but I think it was, somewhere it's about 2,000 kuna in relation to that whole complex when you say the amount is big but it's not. And the desire that was to increase it, there, you own it, you put it into operation, you're a burden, because some units of local self-government, it's well-known by the mayors and mayors, they have to maintain the road, they have to maintain public lighting, they have to maintain everything and that property isn't operational, that in these cases, it increases. I think it was good maybe your position, as minister of finance, I think there's a certain potential and you say you have real estate, you put it into function or you give it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67515	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67516	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, yeah, that intensity actually, where I tell you primarily when it's being passed, bo's then Constitutional Court, defined it as a criminal... However, a broad debate on the introduction of real estate taxes had to be held. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then no one can tell you that the one who uses real estate, then pays the lower part, and the one who actually doesn't use it, pays more. Or, especially what is to be paid for in hotel facilities. And then a number of hotelers, not to mention, panicked. So the one with the five stars should be paid less. Because he's invested in a hotel, he needs to be encouraged to invest. And the one who eats or two stars, if he should actually pay a bigger share of real estate taxes. So that's where you have to, in that part, be led both by a certain part and by an economic policy, to believe that, in the end of the communal tax fee, it's much stronger, in that part, that the state can, if you're not, pay taxes to come to an end and actually manage these properties. Fortunately, that we may have had such taxes in the past, so perhaps all of these facilities, in such a way we punished them and then really came into ownership in the Republic of Croatia, because no one has the right to keep these objects so destructive on the Croatian coast, especially because of those other investors, who have come, invested and thus encourage the offer. It certainly is, but we see today, something has reopened that tax issue. And I'm telling you, the part where the government speaks very specifically of these things, we will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67517	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that GLAS and HSU, on behalf of which will speak respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67518	... colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] So, we when it comes to the management of state property, we've been through it one time and it's absolutely visible by the name of the body that managed it. So we had AUDI, and then DUDI, and then some things. I was one of the ones who was and I didn't have a problem saying that I think it's a good thing we had a ministry. Then I explained why I think it's good, and I'll take the opportunity to say this time, when certain ministries are defined, when it's decided, when the new government is moving and, of course, when you have individual ministries and you change them, then the message you give to your own citizens, but also to foreign investors, which is the direction the government has decided to work in which direction it has decided to develop its economy. So I am the establishment of a new ministry, so the Ministry of State Property absolutely understood as a message not only to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also to foreign investors. Croatia is here, the message is we have a ministry, we want to put state property into office and we want to manage it. And now that's where he's coming in. There is no one who does not look at Croatia outside and who does not analyse it regardless of which bodies it is that when he says what we should do regardless, he needs to read it and he needs to listen to what someone else is experiencing and what he thinks we should do and those who I would say and, in part, more objectively than we are inside, and then when you are inside, you are somehow involved in it all together, perhaps with emotion, perhaps even with certain interests and they say put state property into function. And that's really the way it is. This law is trying to take one step forward. I kind of think, and I have a feeling that this law is like that cat that hunts its own tail, we know that we have something, we know that we need to do something, but somehow we don't dare do it, we don't dare make that step. Here are a few steps, we'll see which way they've been going. First it's tied to camps by golf courses where in a certain way the problem we have, which is for many years not to manage the tried solution. I also support this part of the relationship between the state and the units of local self-government because we always look at those units, we have 556 municipalities and cities and we know, and there have been several discussions between those 556 municipalities and cities that don't have the same opportunities and don't have the same capacity and can't work the same way, and then we all go along a line of less resistance and we look at those and we always treat those who can't and who we know can't, and we don't treat those who can. Experience, you have to have a certain experience, you have to see what's going on on the ground, the experience is that those municipalities and cities that have the ability to manage their property that's state property, the state and municipalities and the city and county, they do it kind of faster, they know exactly what they need to do which is somehow and more logical, you know, it's much closer, it's much simpler that way. It's really good to take a step in that sense. But there is one key problem, and this key problem is with this law, in order to manage something, you need to know what you have. There is no law that comes before this assembly when it comes to property, when it comes to real estate, not to mention inconsistency, undefined and unsettled cadastre and garland. Not one example where some property was even sold, even in a contest to be reported to the owners, so that it would be slow. There are other countries, but we have to be honest about it and say that we are somehow comparing ourselves with some country of former socialism, but they were different there, and it was historically different. So our comparison with one of Hungary, with the Czech Republic, with Poland is quite a difficult comparison because we still gave the possibility of individual investment and something could have been done, so that's the result. So what I'm saying is, I'm saying that first and foremost what's most important and most important is that all energy, the whole effort should be to really have recorded assets. Equally so that we have that property recorded in relation to property that we don't have the disputes that we have. I really know a series of, a series of cases, a series of cases and our islands where all of these preconditions were made, where a spatial plan was adopted and defined as what the investor even had, although before the recession it was incomparably better than it was behind the recession, but then it was that problem that it turned out that some parcels really weren't state-owned even though we swore they were state-owned, that they were partly private. So what's important and what would be important would be that we move to fix the situation immediately when it comes to property relations that the state knows exactly what it's managing, that the local self-government units clean up everything they need to clean up, and that's where we have to be honest and say. I will mention one real estate in the city of Zagreb that was extremely important and very important, the city of Zagreb when it took over, no matter what it turned into a political problem, it was filled with blombs in the grantovnica and after ten years if I had good information, and I didn't check in the grantovnica itself that I could say that, after ten years, all these blombs were taken down so that this property could be a topic of anything. So we can have a great law on state property management, we can say here now we've solved everything here, but you're always having a zero-state problem. And here we have to make it clear that this zero-state problem is a basic problem regardless of whether the state wants to manage the property, whether it wants the municipality, whether it wants the city, whether it wants the individual and the energy it needs to be in the future should be one of the reforms that, if we are already announcing the reform, should be a reform that will allow catastras and gruntovnica to be settled in a single procedure. So, the topic is procedure and it doesn't need to be done, I'm not saying for now we're going to the Catastrian Community to the Catastrian Community. Let's tie to the land, and with what's clear and unequivocally needed to be put into operation because what we have is silver. So that's when you inherit some kind of family silver like the state has certain things, like the municipalities and cities of certain things. It should be managed and taken care of. I was in the replica when I gave the minister something I'm going to say again this time. When it comes to records that you have two incorrect data will always result in incorrect data. And we really have that desire to record this moment, and now we're recording and all these records are public. Well, one is a record at the State Geodetics Authority based on the National Quantification Act. So you have an excellent portal that has the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning where you also have layers of catastra, layers of grantovnica, layers of spatial plan, and then you have a record that will now be run by the Ministry of Regional Development because they have also fought through one law for one of their records. So you have that ARHOD connected to the agricultural land that I used in spatial planning because it was relatively simple for me. And you have a real life. In real life, there are really satellites orbiting your country all the time, where you as one of the state bodies or the ministry or something you can pay off and you can get a record in time. They give you Croatia twice a day, so every 12 hours you can know what's going on. So you can have records. However, if the data are incorrect, if one information is in the cataster, another information in the garnery, and the third information is real, you simply need to solve it. Now it's always the key question of how. We all come nicely from this pay phone whether we're legislative or we're executive, we come in nice and we say that's the problem, we leave that problem somewhere, we sit down and we say we have to solve it. To get rid of that, too. You know every reform hurts. Your reforms aren't simple. When you go into any of the slightest reforms, they're all for you, but when you go, don't touch my yard, don't touch me, and I wouldn't want to get involved in it. The thing is, there's a job to be done here, and we're certainly prepared for a law that would say that in one procedure, and that's what's important, in one procedure, we're sorting out a cadastre and a grantine to get to the real situation. Because without it, there will be no investment. Without it, investment will not go any further. And that's something you should be trying on. The same is true in the introduction, and I mentioned on one of the board the unfortunate Law on Tourist Land. I've been at least a dozen hours at different meetings with different levels of how to solve the problem of camps, how to finally solve the problem of golf, how to get rid of tourist land around the hotel, and we haven't solved it. I think you should always ask people who are operational, who are on the ground. Not just ask, but listen to them a little. And somehow it seems to me that one of the solutions that we're onto when it comes to camps is really not to separate land from forest grounds, because it's a good camp where the forest is. And let the forest remain, and let it remain such land; but it is the theme of governance. And here's to the end I'd touch two facts and two things. I think the ministry should absolutely be the one keeping records and the ministry should be the one keeping an eye on the list of assets it has as any family. Every family knows what they have and doesn't run it by someone else. The second topic is where the evaluation was mentioned here on several occasions. We have a law on what is said to be evaluated, and that law alone should be applied, it's a good law. It should be used, it should be taken care of. There are three methods to do this and when they were doing some kind of thing, some analysis of the difference depends on the method you use between about 5% which is absolutely acceptable. And the third topic I'd like to touch is next. This provision defines Article 8. That when creating a spatial plan or making changes and supplementing the plan, those who do so should inform the ministry. From the level that I am today a spatial planner or that someone who really does it or that I would say really great, inform the Ministry, finger in the ear and move on. What's in nature has proved to be the following. It has been shown that when it comes to spatial plans being worked and, of course, there is always an interesting land on which you can build. And when it comes to that, and the land of the state is taken care of by no one. And if there's anything you need to give the building area somewhere right now, you're gonna give it to the state and you're gonna predict the greenery. Now, we're really gonna be like the state whether it's from the level of the community, the city, I always say the state thinks the whole hierarchy and I think that's what we need and think we're going to make a step in the moment that, as we do about our own property, we're keeping an eye on it, so if someone through a spatial plan on our plot that we owns the park, and not for something else, we're going to make sure that we're left with, say, zone M and even a bigger coefficient. So we have to keep an eye on the state property, especially so that if I were this moment in some executive power, I'd say cool, we just have to notify something else. If I were a minister who manages the property then I'd make sure to say we still have to give some kind of consent to know what's going on on our property or some kind of opinion. And that would be in this law, this is more liberal, but obviously that's what you agreed on, so we'll see how it goes. And it would be very good if we really made sure that the laws were mutually harmonised. And I'm taking the opportunity to say that we have a law that's already been on the board and it's going to be in the first reading, it's about the Law on Hydrocarbons. The law said the Ministry of State Property will no longer deal with agricultural land and forest land, it will be done by someone else. Well, you're wrong, because this hydrocarbon law says that when it comes to them and when it comes to agricultural and forest land, they're going to ask you again, so just do yourself a little bit, especially when at the same time, what on the boards on the plenary floor, you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67519	Thank you. Your presentation has caused more replicas, the first one being the respected representative of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67520	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrak-Taritash, you said that it was necessary for the state to have recorded assets, but today I have been touched by one question all day and not given me peace. Three and a half years ago it was pompously said, in all the media, the state finally has a property register, just type it in, you'll all have you, and now I'm curious where that register went? Transfer something to the information system that can be read if it's not what you said in zero state or one through one, it's basically worth nothing but from this debate I really have one thing going on today. Where's that register? If there was, then it would be logical for this ministry today to have something that has been upgraded. But what I've been trying to do here all day is start a debate and I sincerely hope that in the second reading it will be in law, which is management for companies. So where we're talking about securities, stocks, if we're not just talking about selling, the point is how we manage that property. There were a lot of questions about Djura Djakovic, about this, about that. So we simply say that the ministry is that, is it the Ministry of State Property or is it the Ministry of Economy. So we just have to figure it out, we have to make a distinction between that. So does management only mean about registering ownership or about managing and reacting in crisis situations affect certain changes, etc., and for doing what your favorite topic is, and that's spatial planning. Here today we have had a lot of debates about it, units of local self-government, units of local administrations that basically create space. They know what they want and how they want. And we've been running through this whole time the story of some kind of wall as if the state, the Ministry of State Property, the units of local self-government are enemies and it's practically angry enemies and we're supposed to work together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67521	The answer of the respected representatives of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67522	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, so a few things. You noticed that when I was discussing and when I was talking about state property, I said it was for me and what the municipality is and so, the city, the county and the state, all of it, no matter what level. And there needs to be mutual cooperation, there's no Chinese wall between one ministry and one municipality and the city when it comes to spatial planning. If there's a Chinese wall, it's gonna be wrong. This should be a joint project and should be negotiated together and therefore you always know it was seen by those municipalities that do not have that capacity. Let's finally look at the municipalities that they want, the cities that they want, that have the capacity to work. The same way the ministry has records, but the record, what I said, is two incorrect data is incorrect. We have and great money is invested and everything okay, there's a common information system. Where does he work? Where everything is recorded, where it's not recorded doesn't work because it can't work. So computers and information, they're as good as we're preparing the data. And how accurate your data is. So when the property register started, he needed and he's certainly on the ropes today and he's yelling "help", we can't compare each other. I agree with that, I would be the happiest person to live in a country where when an investor comes in and says "I want to make two tractor factories because I want to, the tractor needs it now" and comes to the Secretary-General and says "Minister, here we want two tractor factories, where can we do it in Croatia?" You have information that today is a fact. Maybe I know he's out there in this community, in this town, go talk, so that's the sense of one-stop shop, open records, and real estate management. And finally, I'm one of those who learned to sell once. So, don't sell. He's gonna give up all the other models, not sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67523	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67524	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Taritash, you said in your presentation, and I agree with you that each country must have a list of its assets and a settled state of property, not only as a register, but also as a cadastre, one through one, and that without that, there must be no transparency in the business of both the state and other state bodies and state firms, unless we have settled the state of grant and cadastre and therefore I replicate with one proposal that you think in Article 9(6), we change the provision because it says that the ministry is authorised to spend the funds resulting from the use of state property to settle the land-book situation. I would expand it not if it was authorized but that it had to, that it was mandatory to spend on setting up a garter and a cadastre and all the property owned by the state... that he still doesn't know what the owner is, that's what the minister himself said in the introduction is this unsettled state and that you have, for example. the gaps in spatial plans when it comes to military or that there is a situation on the ground that some roads are not enlisted in grants and catastros, so for these reasons I think it would be necessary to amend this provision of Article 9(6), that this must be spent on this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67525	The answer of the respected representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67526	Thank you very much. So we can change that provision, but we need to know what our goal is. Is our goal is to have a settled property legal status and simplify it? That should be our goal, all of us. So I've had a chance to see at least 2, 3 laws saying that the means to go must be intended for it. But we need to know that that's our goal, and I'm sure there might be a consensus in this House. Second, we need to know how. So at this point, we have a few laws that regulate it. And those laws, when we're doing them the way it is, you need to take care of it when you break your legs like that and you know what you're going to do and when there's no delay on that road, I'd say three or four years. Then you come to the garland and start again from the garland. So the idea should be and just to listen to us a little bit, and that a little bit of it all together, really, somehow we do, it should be one procedure. In one procedure, a cadastre and grantovnica could be arranged. So, especially from the part of the country where you come from, from which I come, it was in the Austro-Hungarian Catastrian. And there you were called mercs, and you were called those who worked in the garter. And they knew exactly who was doing what they were doing, they measured, they did their job, and they taught it to the authorized, so... The lawyers or some other professions that have worked further, just to do so today would be easier for us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But believe me, I can tell you, I can talk all day about a series of "sad stories", when it comes to investors who have come, who have been ready and gone when they have seen that where they want to invest, no property legal arrangements have been arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67527	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67528	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Mrak Taritash, when you spoke in your presentation, you said that perhaps when we talk about this or similar laws, we view the weaker unit of local self-government than those that are better developed. And one of my colleagues said we're still in economic transition. I think that our metal assembly is still that former state, centralization, not realizing that these 27 years actually, under the territorial structure, we have municipalities, cities and counties and only the central state. So I'll remind you, for example, during the Kukuriku coalition, and for good reason, when it comes to the Agricultural Land Act, then centrally centrally from Zagreb, the land was actually distributed. It happened, for example, that cattlemen, I don't know, were getting in the middle of the highway or where the cemetery was registered, or some farmers from Sinj were getting land in Drnis, those from Sinj, Imotski, Omis. I mean, what's about Zagreb can't be seen as well as in local self-government units. Anywhere from Istria to Ilock, from Ilock to Konaval. So my opinion, my intensity and my personal position is that and the principle of subsidiarity, and we have municipalities and cities where people are directly elected both the mayors, the mayors and their councils, that they can far better dispose of property in their territory than the state. Far better, she should, the state may have one better oversight. With that in mind, I think we should think about it, and all your suggestions are good, I'm happy to accept them, to think about, to do another reading, to get certain things into office, and to involve more units of local administrations and self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67529	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67530	Thank you very much. So, I agree with you completely with what you said. So there are a few things to take care of. The first thing is really some legacy that we have from some past time, they're like something to you, I'll do it, you'll understand it, so we'll be at sea and then they'll drag you away and disrespect you no further. I have a feeling it's the same thing when it comes to real estate, and that's where we need to take a step. And I like very much this step on this law when it comes to real estate, which is especially when it comes to resorts, to put it into office, and that we're going to solve this from one trust. This was done by other countries and other countries, for the simple reason, the worst for real estate, if it is not operational, it fails and is no longer worth to anyone. It's not worth it to the owner, who someday will prove he owns it, and it's not worth it to us, and it's a mockery and it's a problem. On the other hand, really Zagreb is your country. Things work differently in Zagreb than they do elsewhere. And I'm advocating from this pay phone, and I've always stood up, and I think it's absolutely incomparable, when it's at the level of the municipalities and cities, for the simple reason, and you know it yourself. When you are in one municipality and one city, especially when there are fewer people, they know each other. You know exactly what to do, just like one big family. And it's always proven better, more effective. The example works, I mean, it was my idea and unfortunately I couldn't make it happen, but I hope someone still thinks about it that way. I was, for example, the position that the Department of Construction should not issue local and construction permits at all. That it should do a policy of housing, a policy of the state's spatial order, possibly having a building permit, for example, for the highway, so now it's one big state project, or one hydropower plant, but local building permits should be issued where the procedure is happening, so that's in the context of what we're saying and in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67531	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Anka, you said that one of our main problems is the unhappy property cadastre. But I think you were the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning and the State Geodetic Administration was under your authority. I think it's very good that he went into the process of legalizing the facilities, but there was one item, income from punishment for... Irregular buildings in space, where 50% of that revenue was sent to the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps if we hadn't set up agencies and employed them, but invested in catastrian measurements, or geodetic measurements of catastrian municipalities, we would have a much more well-tuned situation today. Accordingly, I believe that in this proposal of the law, all the revenue that the state has made in accordance with this law would be good if it were intended to be directed towards the settlement or new geodetic changes. However, there is a proposal for this law, Article 41, which states, ‘If it is a person who, in the direct procedure of legalising an illegal building from the competent authority, has established a solution to the performance of the facility on the property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the property concerned has been identified as covering the building particle so that a contract with the State or the Ministry of State Property can be concluded directly’. But imagine what happens in Dalmatia, or in the region of Dalmatia, many objects are built on grandfatherland, homeland, but the real registered owner is the Republic of Croatia. Now that a man has received a solution to the condition of the facility, and when he goes into the process of forming a building plot, his garden to which he cannot prove his property will be bought from the state. In particular, we were counting on the area of Vrgorac in view of the last... that we had on the city council that means for 400 square meters of the garden you will have to pay 100 thousand kuna to the state of Croatia, I think it is absolutely not normal. Accordingly, the good concept is that everything that has been covered since '91. In the construction zone, let the units of the local self-government, and that with our own decisions of the city council, we can leave it to the citizens, which is really their property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67533	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67534	You've set up a few themes and a few things here, and maybe I need more than two minutes to answer everything. So '91. And a law that says what's in '91. or in the construction area, now what would happen to what was outside the building area? It wouldn't work. So that's where we should see if it's '91. Applicable, given in '91. does not apply. '91. was applied to the construction area and what was then consistent with the decision was the construction area, which was consistent with the overall spatial plan because Croatia has a good tradition of spatial planning that was in the construction area. So much for '91. and what it is. On the other hand, the theme of ownership is that nothing begins with us, of course, and there's nothing you can do and that's that problem you know. In four years, you can solve a part, and you can start a part, and then someone else will have the results, and that's always the size of the whole process to start, to create good foundations, and then who's going to be the result of all of it being someone else. I'm convinced and then today that geodetic measurements in the way they're defined are not a good model, they're a good model for some things where it's very expedient because you have a geodetic measurement it's over, you have exposure, after two years you've already had some things in space and I've always stood up for it and I've said a lot of times, let's solve in the building area what it is, and then systematically when it comes to order and it just takes time and it's looking for work. And what you said, I think the provision that's in the former law and this law is actually by direct contract that you can solve your garden well. Now that's where the basic problem arises that it's a state-owned land if it was private and there's a process where someone has to prove that it was private land and that's it. We need to know that from '45. There's been a change in the catastrophe not even there, and your garter stayed at '45. And that's the problem we need to solve, there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67535	Thank you. And the next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67536	Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. You, like Mr. Lalovec, touched the evaluations and you said that there are three methods if I understood you well and when compared that there is always a few percent difference between them, that's a fact. However, after the assessment comes something which is foreseen by this law, the market, which you can, which you can't. And the law plans if you don't sell the first time, and then the reduction by 30 and then the second time by 50. But now the question is, what is the real value of the land. At our estimates, I have 50 euros square meters for production, 70 service activities and 80 for trade. I direct those to whom it is expensive and ask them to go to invest, I don't know, with my colleagues at the Pleternica, Požica County where one or two euros is worth. Here we are talking about something else, what this property can bring to the budgets of units of local self-government of the Republic of Croatia and what is the interest of our citizens in all this. And when we talk about where the state and cities and municipalities should be partners, I have an example of 900 million kuna investments in the past year, several hundred jobs and 30-ac halls are currently in construction that has been built and not built. Do you know how many states have invested in this over the past ten years, financially in cash? Not a million kunas. You know how much my city is? 130 million kuna. But what's the use of all that? The benefit of all this is that the land is engrossed, that the workplace is opened, that the young man will remain there. And when we talk about these estimated values, we must not be slaves to what some grader in a square metre currently assesses but in what the market and which are derived from it, which is an upgrade and a basic price at... I wish that in my industrial zone I could give land to a production activity for one euro, without being investigated by the USKOK or by anyone who, if it will bring me a thousand jobs, if it will give the state revenue, if people will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67537	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67538	Thank you very much. You know everything's worth as much as anyone's willing to pay. We can also estimate some amounts, but it's worth as much as he's willing to pay. One of those methods I mentioned was a market method where you compare with the market, but not with the market in Nasice or I don't know inpleternica, but with the market in Bakru. So you need to think about everything and think about investing in everything. But you said one thing that I often say, and we have some legacy for you, and somehow we have this legacy in our head, and we have these obstacles, and in different ways it's called in the women's world, it's called glass ceilings, and in someone else's. And we think that the state is out there somewhere, and that the municipalities and cities are out there somewhere, and that they're between the county and they're mutual enemies. And as long as we think about how the state is an enemy to the municipality, to the cities and that this county is a joke, the naka will not be a step forward. So it's all the same, it's all in the end, citizens pay taxes and they know that someone takes them and takes them away from some country, takes, gives or whatever. And that's what we need to change our own thinking and see that this law that is that the state is the one that gives legislative frameworks, gives us rules of conduct and is some correction to it or a correction to it all together or to say as this law has said, at this time important tourism,...the development of tourism, the state will stand behind it because we have concluded that we have a problem here. That's the point. But as we think about each other in our own home, there's a country out there that's what we're all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67539	Thank you. Now we will move on to the next club of representatives, and that is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative Milorad Batinić will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67540	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with State Secretarys, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS Club think it is worth supporting this bill simply because it is a step forward, and also in the articles themselves and in the subject, we believe that there is enough room for this law to be made available with the observations of this debate and in particular I will present our proposals that it can be improved until the second reading, that is one of the reasons. The second reason is that we at the HNS club supported the establishment of this ministry precisely in the hope that it would be far more quality, simpler, faster, more functional not only management but also decision-making, or fully available with state property. But for a short period of time, I'm going to try to taxively just count some things, and there's more of them that suggestion about this law. First, we suggest that perhaps what we think is missing in the introductory part of this law, and that's the wording. Here, I'll try to explain. In Article 3(1), the term State Property and then you have one, two, three in paragraph 3 says the parts on which ownership is established and now that you are reading further until you reach Article 9 which speaks, point 6 of the funds made available by the Ministry is authorised to use for the regulation of the land-book situation. Op, there's a state with something that's not enlisted, meaning both grant and cadastre, etc. The great suggestion is to make a term because what is reality this law will not be read only by us, read by citizens, but what should be the intensity, the meaning of this whole part is read by both potential and domestic and foreign investors in order to avoid confusion. The notion of state property is a suggestion as far as possible until the second reading to list as detailed as possible what we are discussing and talking about, as much as possible. In this regard, Article 5, with the exception of Article 3 which is extremely impeccable to us and to a limited extent detects, identifies what we are talking about, says the Ministry of Management and other property-specific laws, etc. If it's a spatial plan, so it lists and now exclusively prefers, at the end I'll read, quote, camp, other sports recreation fields, it would suggest not playgrounds but content, meaning nomotechnics and similar objects of commercial nature. Now it's a public interest or I don't understand the meaning, the public interest here is not at all highlighted as such. A hypothetical spatial plan is made possible by construction, a potential investor is a local, regional self-government and she wants to invest something. And on the basis of this part, I question, perhaps I'm wrong, I'd like to make a mistake, meaning purely commercial nature. And why not public interest? In point 2 of the same article, you give up management, in my opinion extremely important areas. I'm going back to the ministry, what was the point, and now you're simply leaving certain areas of jurisdiction to some other bodies, respecting that they will also manage well, but the urgency is that this state body, this ministry should, in its logic, have experts of the highest quality people who understand property management from lawyers etc. In addition, Article 20(2) of the report may include other ministries as well as other bodies. So this is in line with not being able to, but I consider saying primarily about real estate, do we at the annual level, ask for someone to respond through the replica or you ministers, do we at the annual level get how land is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, do we also manage Croatian forests and other ministries that in their jurisdiction have real estate, land exclusively, let's focus only on land? So no. And we propose not to be able to but to include, but only those areas, those resorts that manage land and real estate within the scope of this law. It means what is fundamental to you and what you will manage according to the preceding articles. I think, I failed to say at first, I said that this law is a step forward, but I have a feeling that you have one delay, that you are not looking at pro futuro because the reality of this law is when we read which regulations you need to make, I guess if we go to look at it purely technically when, this law is realistically possible to apply it at the end of this year, at the very beginning of 2019, and this tendency towards the situation, to the footage of the disorder we heard on the board yesterday, should not be a hindrance in the sense that you are looking at a little bit of pro futuro and that I am a little dared to show myself a more liberal one approach to this work, and later you will understand what I am saying even more. So there's a series of topics. Given the shortness, I will focus on article 45, which is a step in relation to previous articles, however, is not as much as we expected. We primarily believe that the quality management of the property of the Republic of Croatia, primarily I mean real estate, the HNS is in its proposals and in the debates and before this was the subject, we have defined inactive assets, assets that are not in function, it was our seal of change and addition of the existing law that is still in force. I know that it has been in some way and by the ministry, we are aware of the issues of recording, but precisely for reasons to respect the principles of subsidiarity, and the favorite of a lower level and one far greater trust that I expected from this side versus local and regional self-government. Unfortunately, I say, I feel a simple dictionary hand brake, and I don't think it's necessary, it's not necessary. And as for the works of why I say, so Article 64, I also said on the board, so it's a new technical part, a failure because if you go to calculate, then you can see that it's not harmonised, and there are some of those articles that I believe you'll be preparing for a second law reading more attention. It means in Article 64, which states whether any of the items will be completed under the provisions of the existing law, the new law, and when the applicant now says if within 3 months of the date of entry into force of this law, a proposal may be submitted on the basis of which the procedure can continue or will be taken over by an old time limit for the adoption of the regulation is 90 days. So let's do some of these dates, and so I suggest in this part, and you'll allow it, the HNS Club will, in writing, give you after the debate when we read everything, when we look at it, give you some of our thinking, I believe you'll consider them. Why am I talking about when this law is treated in the way that local self-government is treated, meaning the goal is not only that the governance strategy of state property is defined as having to be operational, meaning that property that is not active, which is unfortunately abandoned by the lack of care, so far, the care and concern of us here in the Assembly may mean that we are all responsible for putting in office and the assets of the Republic of Croatia in principle should be in the function of creating new and added values, independently central, regional, local level and not cost and burden unfortunately as it is now. And unfortunately another thing, it's a communal problem in a large number of local self-government environments. What we are proposing also, in this new law, means the availability of real estate in a way that is inactive, non-functional property, assets that are not of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia in terms of the central state to be made available to local and regional self-government in accordance with the principles and strategies and this law. Why did I say the wording? Available means selling real estate. And I believe that many of these problems I've highlighted, only one small part of the lack of mood, the lack of property management at local and regional level, would not exist, but all governments have so far avoided sales. And that's a form of availability. We predicted whether you would respect this or some other percentage if local self-government, if of course you respect our proposal to donate these properties to local self-government and if the best form of economic view is the sale of some property that one part that sells local self-government goes to the central state, the other part remains to local self-government, exclusively for capital investment funds because don't forget one basic thing, I think the Croatian counterpart mentioned, the balance sheet of the Republic of Croatia. So there's local, regional and national. We're not two worlds, this is all one country. When I said the term in good faith suggestions, because I'm telling my example, I believe that everyone can have such an example and such a case and that potential investors came with a certain one, so there are also focussing on those laws from encouraging investment, from strategic investment projects, and also from managing state assets, and they've asked us for some clarifications, some clarifications. The aim is to put property into operation in a transparent, long-term sustainable manner and should not be avoided from selling the property whoever sells it whether it is sold by the state for investment, whether it is sold by local self-government. Well, for God's sake, we're not taking that money somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, as I reiterated, we will support the Ministers in the hope that you will appreciate this because these were increasingly more and more constructive discussions, discussions which are the result of experience, practice and good faith because everyone's interest and goal is as high as possible, and of course respecting the basic principle defined by both budgets and that most of the funds are capitalised as much as possible from the availability of assets and to reduce external debt. That's what we all want you to believe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67541	Thank you. And there are several replicas for your exposure. The first one is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Batinić, here you are in your presentation, I will relate as I will say experienced and long-time mayor, and today we see that most of the mayors of the current or former mayors who have safe experience to help the ministry I will tell the reduction of the risk of passing laws that will continue to slow down faster and more quality development. And in your presentation, you mentioned that this property managed by the Ministry of State Property cannot normally manage agricultural land or forest land. In our experience, we know we can't do those three things. I'm not going to mention maritime well-being now, or we're going to say other land for other purposes. But the fact that it is faster and more efficient to manage this property that we must find some common interest, and that is exactly what you said that when it enters the building area through urban plans whether it is agricultural, forest or within the Ministry of State Property to transfer it to local self-government management. But we also have proof that in its proposal today, the ministry has solved exactly the agricultural and forest land used by the camps today. Camps are part of the construction, part of the forest and part of the agricultural area. And with this law of automation, it comes to the management of the Ministry of State Property. Because in the same way, we suggest that it be transferred to local self-government management of what is in the construction area. And what you said nicely, I support it on the distribution of income because now the camps, the revenues will only be made in the ministry, i.e. the state budget. The local self-government doesn't get anything, and that's where we need to make a deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67543	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67544	Thank you. Comrade Demetlik, I'm glad you're here to support our club's thinking. Namely, as I was saying in the debate, the fruits of all these discussions are just certain experiences that result from solving or inability to solve certain problems. So let's say one example. I think one four years ago, in fact, a threem-way project was designed for recreation, for citizens. It means public interest. The trim track means we've been sending demands, I think three times the Ministry of Agriculture. I was in DUUDI back then. We haven't been able to solve anything. I hope so now, because according to this, according to these amendments of the law, it will be able to be solved much simpler. But not for another year. The reality and that we're aware of. I'd like that sooner. Not to speak now since 2005 of the first term of one abandoned military facility, which is the Croatian Army, means it dates back to the former JNA built in '82, the third year the Croatian army declared unspective. It was a highly sophisticated object let's say electronic tracking, etc. We made all the necessary planning documents, the real estate assessment we were willing to buy from the state. Today this facility was worth up to a million kunas. Do you know what it's worth today? Ziro, zero. Unfortunately, it's fate. That's why we suggest this doesn't happen with some other real estate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67545	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67546	Thank you, Vice President. Here is a respected colleague, Batinić, in your presentation, who said that everything that is not of strategic state interest should be left to the local environment. Each of us has a separate style and a way of saying it, and I was saying that through this bill the ministry is missing in fact that everything within the borders of the general urban plan conveys whether it owns or manages units of local self-government. I will agree in your statement also with the conclusion that I went with too much security or one conservative approach. However, what I have at least managed to read from all the debates so far, we all point to the necessary trust, between the state and the local level, which we really need, but I would add just one word, we lack determination. First of all, by the promoter, some norms, which have not delivered concrete results so far, simply need to be changed, should be broken, it should be said that this bill is not so bad. You have to say it's a step forward. That people inside the ministry invested a lot of energy. That there must be those power plants, which simply pull the brake and continue to insist that certain processes of state property management remain blocked. And on all of us, it's now between these two readings, which you've said well, enough time and space, that simply through this power, through this determination, through mutual trust, through second reading, much more quality and more liberal and better law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67547	Thank you. The answer of the respected MP Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67548	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sponz, obviously the paradigm of our thinking, which we have some experience and practice and we have been facing for many years with these problems, we look differently at a particular problem. That's completely understandable. The determination, I agree, is that, however, what is the problem, is the problem of our political reality, populism, if one such, liberal happens in terms of a more free step, believe me, it will probably be the cover or statement or Plenkovic or before Milanovic or anyone else sells family silver. And there will be no cover, put in place property, worth 500,000 kuna, and the investment that was made on it, what is the multiplier. And colleague Klaric was saying, how many jobs... I think we need to change that a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're as challenging as I am a consensus on certain things, yes. Because this is the interest of all of us. I believe, knowing Minister Maric himself and we all know him as a fellow representative before, looking at now, the way the government thinks, the current diameter, me personally, so I sold in the city two real estates for an estimated value. You know how much? One investment is 9 times bigger, the other is 15 over the value of real estate, so what am I talking about? So the availability of the property is a sale, of course by bending all the principles, all the positive regulations, and I don't see why.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67549	Thank you very much. And we're going to the next club, and that's that IDS, PGS and lists for Rijeka, in the name of which the respected representative Tulio Demetlika will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, we can say with joy that the day came when we finally got a chance to discuss the Law on State Property Management. I will say that since the beginning of this term but also much earlier, the IDS, PGS and LRI Club has repeatedly stressed the importance of adopting this law and we repeat, how important it is to effectively manage and put into function unused state property. This law announces that it will bring more order and positive shifts in governance and positioning of state assets. It should be said that he, with his new provisions, is in fact a certain shift in relation to the current law, as well as to the previous, more than an unsatisfactory management of state property. We welcome the adoption of a new law, as the latter has been a brake to the role of unused state property. Quality and transparent management of RH assets, in the service of economic growth, is a driving force of development and units of local, regional, regional self-government. I remind you once again, that the cities and municipalities are the bearers of economic development. Efficient and management of state assets, we create a new value for the community, putting into operation existing, unusable resources, and thus ensure the prosperity of local units on an economic, cultural and social basis, without unnecessary further borrowing. I'm sure those wishes and intentions are positive. However, I must conclude that not even after nearly three decades of unsuccessful attempts to make this area a significant improvement, not even now the ministry, i.e. The government did not have the courage to leave the area to at least one of the more units of local and regional self-government that would know in any way that state property would bring in a function while filling up the state budget. In this bill, there is unfortunately no decentralisation. If such a bill is adopted, the State will continue to implement the procedures for the placing of unused assets in office, i.e. Local self-government representatives as well as interested investors will still have to run to Zagreb and wait for solutions to state bureaucracy. We agree that those items, which are of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia, should remain in the domain of the ministry. However, what is of strategic importance to local and regional self-government should be transferred to management. It is pointless for the ministry to deal with the issue of garages, apartments, business spaces, land, which is covered by spatial and urban plans and the like. So it will be until it is understood that the problem is actually not in the law, but in the one who implements it or who should implement it. What we expect is at least a shift in the regulation of so-called. tourist land. The minister announced that he was preparing a new law and would go according to an emergency procedure, a colleague named Bacic said it was very important. Namely, the Ministry of State Property under this law will become competent for tourist camps independently of whether they are located in a building zone or on agricultural or forest land. And it is the camps that are ahead of the unsettled status that, apart from the state, the damages are suffered by hotel companies because they couldn't invest. It is a problem that hotelers, camp owners and other investors have been troubled for years so they expect to get rid of it as soon as possible, although we must admit that, by law of the current tourism and other construction land, big and more significant investments in tourism took place in Croatia, and thanks to me, I will tell the great efforts of any cooperation of quality between local self-government and the Ministry of State Property, because it was not simply these investments would not have been but we must say that with all the efforts it could certainly have been that what Mr Batinić said was a little more liberal, i.e. More flexible. And in the context of this bill, I must specifically refer to the absolutely unacceptable article 68, which is most discussed today. In particular, its paragraph 5, which stipulates that units of local and regional self-government must be returned to the State, i.e. to compensate for the money acquired by the sale of properties that were registered as their property in land books at the time they were sold. Therefore, local self-government units were enrolled in land books as property owners at the time of sale and acted in good faith with full confidence in land books, while respecting all the legal procedures prescribed. In addition, the Republic of Croatia has participated through its authorities in the land-booking procedures of recording these properties for the benefit of the units of local self-government and all land-book solutions on the conversion of social property have also been provided to the competent municipal authorities. If by then the state had considered that something had been done by law, it could have reacted within the legal time limit and made a complaint, but that did not happen. In particular, it is pointed out that the income from the sale of property owned by units of local self-government is a dedicated revenue spent in building municipal infrastructure and improving the living conditions of our citizens. The new reconstruction of municipalities since 1993 of the responsible local self-government unit immediately approached the registration of ownership from former municipalities i.e. from the social property or municipality of the people's property and made their own register for quality and efficient management in order to achieve higher incomes and after 25 years we still have an unsettled property situation both in the state and in the units of local self-government. If we pass a law like this, we will directly punish local units that have worked with the activation of their assets to develop their own areas by investing in public needs. Schools were built, kindergartens, and others would endanger their functioning and their survival. As many times so far, those who do something and invest, it turns out that it would be best for cities and municipalities to let property fail and lose value and ask for some help from the state instead of putting their resources into operation. At least now we wouldn't have to return anything to the state. If we're going to be guided by such logic, I'm sure our future isn't promising. In addition, there is no mention of potential charging and legal tightening interest anywhere in the law. I don't even want to think about what that would mean for local units' budgets. If, on the return of funds charged from the sale of real estate after unnecessary, long and expensive court disputes with the state of the local unit, they are to be paid tight interest, you will bring them into a very envious situation from which some units will find it difficult to get out of. So I will repeat the question to the Ministry, is the laws passed by this Croatian Parliament or by the State's Attorney's Office? Because it turns out that according to current practice, the State Attorney's Office has been ordered to write in land books units of local self-government and to register state ownership without informing the units of local self-government. And now, on this advice from the State's Attorney's Office, we also need to retroactively return what we put in place and bring in for the purpose of 20 years. So our club is the view that it's high time to make a turn, to start thinking properly and in a way that the state-level municipalities and cities of partners. That as partners we are working together towards faster economic growth, a greater number of investments, not that the state puts a huge burden on the back of local units and makes it impossible for them to function normally. We support this law to allow for the reduction of the number of court disputes between the state and the local self-government units regarding the proof of ownership because we think that the state, the county, the cities and the municipalities are one state and that it is pointless to conduct disputes in which the State's attorney is protecting the interest of the state and I am now asking a question and who is protecting the interests of cities and municipalities? Unfortunately, we still have to spend our own resources to hire private law offices to protect our interest. In the light of the law, you state that the new law will allow for the position of a larger number of real estate in the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, which will boost investment activities and new employment, and which will directly affect the increase in the revenues of the state budget and GDP growth. It is our wish that you also take care to increase the income of urban, municipal and county budgets because by transferring property, such as pensioners' homes, health homes, schools, you transfer the burden, we assume maintenance and commitment. And that property, which can put us in and give us extra income, is what you keep on running. But I believe that this will be measured and I sincerely hope that these words of yours will be fulfilled and that examples like the Muzil Peninsula in Pula, which represents perhaps the greatest present, will be solved, I will say pulse potential. The revitalisation project, putting the facility into operation, envisions a total investment of 189m euros. If that project were to be realised, this would mean, in particular, 19.5 million kuna per year from profit tax and 14.4 million kuna per year from VAT on food and drink. However, I must say, unfortunately from the answer to the parliamentary question that we have received from the Ministry of State Assets, just before this debate, it comes out, and therefore today, we are discussing in this direction, that for the project of putting into office the Muzil area, the four ministries, the State Geodetic Administration, the County State's Attorney's Office and that I am not listing any further. I am now asking the question, by adopting a new law, whether Muzil will be resolved in a year, as Mr Batinić said or as you replied, that knowing the experience so far, that this will be resolved from a minimum of 5 years and even 10 years. It is about the fact that state structures, simply or by that, are not interested in solving such complex problems. I'll get an answer, pal, okay, I'll be overjoyed if we settle it in a year. I honor not only the Ministry, but the entire Parliament. If in that segment, the powers of responsibility were lowered to a local level, people who are livingly interested in their city, their municipality and county progressing, I assure you that we would then much faster and more effectively activate unused property. I will also refer to Article 45, where real estate is proposed for the benefit of local, regional self-government units, to promote economic progress. We believe that the article is too narrowly defined and, in addition, it is not clear on what criteria it will be assessed by, the justification for the award of real estate without compensation. And what's still questionable, and that's just questionable is the implementation of this article, because it's not well defined. Further, regarding Art. The 69th question arises whether, among other things, any real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is on 1.1.2017, will be entered in the unit of local self-government. Does this also apply to property, for example, some properties owned by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute or, for example, some homes of pensioners or health homes owned by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. We can't exactly read that from an article. 3. which prescribes the concept of state property. Another proposal that has not been taken into account and is not fully in the department of state property's management, but I will still be attached to the article. 8. where units of local self-government must inform the ministry of the launch of the procedure for the adoption of a spatial plan. I'll agree with my colleague, Mr. Taritash, that even your ministry, once a positive or negative agreement, on a spatial basis, we don't mind. However, what we believe is also to speed up safe processes, that after accepting spatial and urban plans, obtaining all consent, by all ministries and competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia, all land included in the boundaries of the spatial plan or urban plan is handed over to the management of units of local self-government. Whether it will be property, whether it will be after sale, division or income from it is a different story. But automation is transmitted and then we will no longer walk in Croatian forests, etc. Here's the last line, allow me, Vice President, I'm a little longer, but I believe There will be no problem in applying, but I believe that after this debate today, the ministry will take our remarks in the three weeks to come and then we will be able to support it, because this is the kind of proposal our club simply cannot support. [[You're way out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67551	Thank you. We have some replicas, the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67552	Dear fellow Tulio Demetlika, I am convinced and I think it would be good to support, now in this reading, this bill of law, that he will be corrected to another and I believe you will do so as I do. And by what and how and why it should be done, because one positive step is in the direction in which we want units of local self-government, and then all of our citizens through us. While you were saying, and when you mentioned that time, which is needed to make some decision about the availability, I asked my professional services, to scan and send me one of the memos from the Ministry of State Property Management, and just an example of how the situation at the time is according to the current law. So, he has a location permit to build a road in 2010. A land resolution procedure has been initiated. In the meantime, the AUDIO stopped, and it was DUUDI, so DUUDI, all of our demands, were in the closet somewhere, i.e., deleted the archive, so he didn't even think about it, we were further preparing the documentation. 2015 get a building permit, prepare, report the construction site, so we don't fail. In order to get back 8 years from the ministry to find 2015 in the land status, I get the information that the land is included in the forest economic area. In 2015 we receive data from the Management Department for Urbanism and the municipal system... to work in the area of agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now you tell me what problems the ministry is in when making decisions? His problem is to make a decision that he'll give us this land because he's under the pressure of the Forests Act, the Law on Agricultural Land, and here we're talking about a law that should allow them to give it to us for management so that we can put it into office and now that the absurd is bigger, it's about a road leading to a firehouse, and now you tell me how to explain to my citizens, to my firefighters, that we can't build a firehouse because they're cheating on each other, and they're convincing each other who's right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67553	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67554	Thank you. Kolega Klaric, what Mr Batinić said, we have enough experience and we know because we have encountered these problems and from this very experience we often repeat that the laws that are passed in the Parliament and the government suggests that they are simply not harmonised, that one ministry as if it were driving on its own road or along its tracks and that is the problem and that is why we suggested that what entered into the building area was the road, industrial zone, park plot, kindergarten and similar transfer to the local self-government unit then the thing would be simply solved. So the basis is to start with that spatial plan, if he's got all the permits, all the consent from the ministries, I don't see why we have to ask the Croatian Forests for five years after that, it's not going to be solved by the Ministry of State Property, it's going to be running around the Croatian Forests. After that they'll transfer you to another office and just walk you from one office to another and say it's not my jurisdiction, the same example, but when I have time for our specific mine that we wanted to activate and then we come to the Ministry of State Property, they say it's not the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy, we don't have it, go to the Ministry of State and walk up, 5 years has gone by, we're on a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67555	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67556	Thank you very much. My colleague Demetlik, I've been thinking about whether or not to come forward, but this story with Muzil was absolutely a reason to call you back because everyone here can tell some sad stories they have and where they walk from the unloved to the unloved, and it's actually the point when we have some law to try to prevent it, that it won't be like that anymore. Unfortunately, even this law we've been discussing here today won't be like that, Muzil, I know about 4.5 years that I haven't been saying that you haven't included the topic of protection yet, so you haven't included the topic of environmental impact assessment, so we haven't included all these topics. But life taught me some things, something worth 10 years ago is not worth investment today. Investments like that didn't develop before 10 today. Equally what some investor who will be there in 10 years is going to do, it's going to be something completely different. You know very well how in tourism things change, you used to sell, I learned spatial planning, then the hotels planned with the number of beds, you saw the size of the towels, how many towels on the beach, you dimensioned the hotel with the number of beds. It's not like that anymore. What exactly am I trying to say about what you said? It takes a little courage. It's not simple. It's hard and for that courage you'll get at the beginning that they're all against you. But it takes a little courage, and it takes one hour to draw the line, if we don't draw that line again, some other assembly of Parliament will debate about another law, listening to other stories from colleagues who say that 8 years of wandering from one ministry to another, I can really agree with all of you who discussed it, it's much better when it's managed by municipalities and cities, they're faster, better and... But we really need to keep an eye on every law on that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67557	Thank you. Next is the Club of Representatives of the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67558	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the ministry, all of whom I welcome on behalf of the HSS Club and this few sentences on the Law on State Property Management. In fact, the law certainly needs the Republic of Croatia because it is certainly a good tool for what has been announced to contribute to the overall development of Croatia and the attractiveness of EU funds through a quality register and through quality management of state property. After a year, what do we have? As we have established this ministry, although we were in the beginning against the establishment of the ministry, i.e. to increase the number of ministries that now have 20.5 central offices of the state administration in the status of the ministry, thus increasing the administration and we wanted a more efficient and efficient state. What do we have in the field? We've got a mess, we've got trouble and we've got negligentness and It's a picture, and what the minister himself said in the introduction, that we haven't recorded with certainty all state property yet. We hear that not all of us in the garter or in the catastrophe spent one through one, and surely it won't be for many years if we continue like this. We hear there are a number of facilities, economic facilities, locals, apartments for which there are no valid contracts, for which someone is illegally used and that there are a large number of those who have not paid neither rent nor concession. That's often the minister himself pointed out and that's where it's going to be done. We haven't heard anything about it today, so it's my question and my suggestion that by the second reading we get a list of who didn't pay for it, which is what the state is talking about, because I think that it's a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and we also think that we from the HSS club need to know that, especially in the context that we want every farmer to be equal to the law and that he has the same chance, that he can have someone with a turn, some craftsman who doesn't pay for the rental of a place and we see that there are such cases and that there's a state space. I think that in this context this law needs to be done, and that is why we should make the order, and that is why we propose that in Article 9(6), the funds must be raised from the management of state property, in part, in a manner that does not say here in paragraph 6 that it is authorised to spend on the construction of the land of the library rather than that it is necessary to spend on the arrangement of land-based library states that are not in spatial plans, on the settlement of road conditions because they are a prerequisite for the development of other municipal infrastructures, and the fact that we have both not registered and local and county roads in spatial plans and catasters and grants. That is why we are also surprised by the article in the law that says that this record is not a public register, but it is explained by the minister, but the fact that there are many of us who have commented on it and that it is necessary to explain this situation more precisely to the second reading, and that we are from the club that the full record should remain in this ministry, not to go to the Central Office for Digitalisation, because this ministry has just been established to have a list of assets in one place and to manage it in a quality and transparent manner. And we don't see why this would go to another central body now, so if it's necessary to strengthen both the ministry and the capacities of the current ministry, I don't see any reason not to. It would also refer to the already mentioned decisions on which companies are strategic or of particular interest, which they are not. Especially us from Slavonia and Baranja pains what it is... example Luka Vukovar or Đuro Đaković are off the list of companies of special interest. Whose interest is it that they take off their clothes and what's going to happen to them? The minister replied that whether they were on the list or not they would be taken care of by a good master and that they would continue to invest in these societies and develop them. We personally think that this is not a good way to go and that they should have stayed on the list of companies of particular interest because we know what Đuro Đakovic means for Slavonski Brod, Brod-Posavina County and that if, and we see that society is hard to operate that there is not enough own capital, then the government and the resolution ministries must find ways to either capitalise society or find a partner. Is how it helps some other companies that do military production then and Djuro Djakovic deserves more active state and ministry involved, especially now that we have a new administration because it is allegedly that the minister with the previous administration did not have good cooperation and here is now an opportunity to make it better. We positively assess, of course, what ex-lege will do to transfer ownership to local self-government units from top facilities on the ground that are in function of local development such as kindergartens, firehouses and other facilities not to list now, but our question is why not apartments and houses that are not of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here are just a few reasons, for example, in the Municipality of Okucani you have a lot of residents who, after the Homeland War, moved there and expected to settle their housing issues. A lot of them haven't worked it out yet, and they can get through these very state houses that are... APN solves the housing issue, keep them there so they don't move out, and there are similar examples in other parts. Well, in that context, I think you should consider until the second reading to include this. And of course you need to see what with the places used by hunting associations, fishing associations, and on state property, I think that part, too, if it's not a field that's of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, could be transferred to units of local self-government. And our question and mine from the HSS is why not military facilities where there is interest and units of local self-government and regional self-government for some objects that are inspective objects in the opinion of the Ministry of Defence. For example, Vojarna in Novi Gradiška for many years there has been a requirement for both the city of Novi Gradiška and the county of Brodo-Posaviska to put into office yet to be solved, and now it has become a danger for passersby because it has begun to collapse and fall apart pieces of facade and we must be responsible and solve these problems. I would also like to point out what is already said here that Article 45 should add a unit of local self-government especially when it comes to the implementation of eu projects, and it is partly implemented on state property that the state must be partners with local self-government units and that it should certainly speed up these procedures and work together with them to realise these projects with the aim of attracting eu funds and development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. We are also against the fact that in Article 68(5) of the local self-government unit is now burdened with the return of acquired assets and revenues from the previous period if the State subsequently entered as owner because it is certainly not in the context of decentralisation and assistance and the development of all parts. If that part is not going to change, at least to change one word in only one item where the state says that the units of the local self-government of the first and second group of development, or the underdeveloped, can free them from these obligations. I suggest that this can be changed to the sea because simply these units of local self-government are not first wrong, and the others do not have the means for further growth and development. If they are already classified in that group for a reason, they are classified into these underdeveloped groups and it is impossible for them to allocate funds and pay the state instead of investing in infrastructure and in eu projects. And when it comes to decision-making, they all mentioned it, so we at HSS must consider that the minister has put himself here too much and obligation and the right to 7.5 million kuna alone to decide on the fate of state property especially in the context of the assessment of the authorised court expert lowering the initial prices after the first and second rounds. And after that if there are no interested free or direct contracts to make contracts. This suggests that a large space is being opened with possible corrupt actions from the age of corners and similar, because whoever is at the source of information will find out that some real estate has no interest and that the price is nothing and that as such, it can qualityly agree and buy and place a function of its own personal interest rather than a common interest which should be of interest to all of us, so the proposal of the HSS is that we do not go in this way Mr. Secretary of State, but that after that, if there is no interest in the first or second round, there is no direct contract but bidding, publicly announce the bidding so who can do more. If only one person shows up and gives only one kuna, then it is public and transparent and not that the minister negotiates without the public with some transfer of ownership rights to anything that is state property. And we also want to point out that it's unclear when it comes to shares. In Article 32(3) to which shares would be sold directly if the previous buyer had already taken advantage of any existing legal rights. It's a little more specific until the second reading. And I welcome, of course, the proposal that parliamentary parties can also be given part of state property for their work. However, the question is whether it wants to buy a new majority again and why it does not open up space to other political parties so that they can get to use state property, because my opinion is that we from the HSS too, that someone better use state property, pay rent and direct than it fails. And if we are not already amending the Law establishing and establishing political parties, then we are giving everyone an equal chance and those who are not parliamentary have the opportunity to gain state space for their work and activities. And then, since we're spreading it, why not the defense associations and organizations involved in humanitarian work? I think such persons and such associations deserve the same that they can get a favourable state space for use. In short, the law needs the Republic of Croatia, we need quality records but we need transparent and responsible management of state property and as soon as possible speed up these processes to put into operation as much property as possible and attract investment in the Republic of Croatia and preserve jobs and create new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67559	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Pera Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67560	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In part of your discussion, you spoke about Đuro Đaković from Slavonski Brod, who was removed from the list of strategic societies of importance for the Republic of Croatia. That's what we talked about yesterday. I am certainly not pleased that this company has been removed from that list, but it certainly may not matter which list Đuro Djakovic and any company are on. The important thing is how he takes care of her if she already has inside the capital, and the state has that capital and she should have cared more about it before. I also spoke at my first announcement in this House, I was just talking about Đuro Đakovic, was Minister Panenić at the time at the last meeting and I asked here to be in charge, it is important to manage the company. So the Supervisory Board and the management responsible for the implementation, management and the Supervisory Board that approved their work is not then changed but extended the contract for a year even though they were then close to 270 million losses. With the end of 2016 it means 2012, 2016 Đuro Đaković has accumulated 320 million kuna losses. At that interval, 320 workers were fired, meaning one third of workers and was on the list for strategic societies of importance for the Republic of Croatia. So I think maybe this just administrative opinion on that list woke one to say more attention to the ship's public, and I'm sure both the state and the minister of the economy and the minister of state property will worry more about Djura Djakovic so much about all the companies, so on their capital not only the number of shares that have changed by recapitalisation but by their value that was 80 kuna, and today that value is somewhere around 18,19 kuna. And you know for yourself that on all the advice for Slavonia that I was talking about this problem. So the problem of the economy, especially when Đuro Đakovic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67561	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Ćosic, does not matter whether Đuro Đaković is on the list of strategic or special interests, because there is also an important political impression. And you have to agree with me that it's not good even though she was on the strategic list not well run by this company. Because she used to employ 18000 people, sometimes she had a much wider production program, many companies within the holding company Đuro Đakovic slowly came into difficulties and disappeared and there were not enough engagements to preserve those jobs. And now that we've stayed the way we are, and now that we've stayed the way we are, you'll agree with me that we need to be louder, but we're louder than the opposition, and it makes sense that we're loud. And you from the position must not only publicly articulate this problem but together with the ministers, of course we will help if you invite us to sit down and see as far away as possible with Djur Djakovic. Because the fact is that we all accepted the need for Đuri Djakovic's recapitalisation. There was an opportunity at the end of last year when Black Steel offered recapitalisation, so the Ministry of State Property and the Ministry of Economy were in a dilemma to accept or not. Even a congregation of stock companies was delayed for that reason. At the end when it was approved, I don't know why it gave up the recapitalisation. Now that that's already happened, that's why I'm saying we need to find a way to put this company on its feet and through recapitalisation and through finding a strategic partner and through new investments and new programmes. Here we are together on this road I as an opposition and can call and shout, and you as a position have a much wider opportunity to act that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67563	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67564	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Vlaovic. I'd go from the end. You were talking about non-transparentity in direct contracts and the like. That's exactly what we were talking about. This law is non-transparent. So Article 15 speaks about some principle of public property management, but it says it will be resolved by subsequent acts, and we have seen what we can expect in subsequent acts from this government, so that is not encouraging at all. The Minister has the right to hold up to a million euros, with the principle of the public according to us not being respected as it should be. When we talk about Đura Djakovic, I would look back at our ports. It's funny for me not to say tragically to convince you not to go in now that it's managed by companies before, but that they will now be better managed if they are not on the list of strategic companies or companies of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. I think they'll be mastered the same or similar as they've managed so far, and the message that they've downloaded from the list is actually just a bad political message. As far as our river ports are concerned, all our neighbours will reach both Hungarians and Serbs on one side, our ports will remain in an air-empty area and eventually close them down, and we have huge capacities in Osijek and Vukovar and Batina, though, through a recreational port, therefore not a commercial freighter. And finally, the biggest problem is that the state doesn't even know what's in its possession, it's the source of the main problem and the episode mentioned by the minister is exactly the cause of this. And what are we doing? We are now moving the Central Property Register from the Ministry of Property no matter who rules them into some third institution and how we will rule... yet the left will not know what the right is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67565	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67566	Thank you, Vice President. Kola Hajdukovic, of course, expects all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be transparently managed with state property, and therefore I am surprised that the minister has allowed himself, I believe that he wants to work honestly and transparently and wants to work responsibly. He puts too much on his back that he decides up to 7.5 million kuna and that he can make contracts directly to that amount and that he should certainly consider whether it is wise and should not be put in a position to suspect whether someone had privileged information or not. I therefore think that by the second reading they will surely decide to change it if it really wants to be a transparent work of this ministry and in a transparent way of managing the property. I say once again protest as you mentioned that Luka Vukovar and Đuro Đakovic have both taken off the list of strategic projects or strategic companies. You mentioned yourself that within the project “Slavonia” and Luka Osijek and Luka Vukovar and Luka Slavonski Brod are listed as of particular interest and that this is one great perspective for the development of the economy of Slavonia and Baranja and through transit operations, but also through business within Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem and every investment in these capacities we need. So in this context, I am surprised that it was not solved until the end of the Sava River, and we are still investing in Luka Slavonski Brod, of course I welcome it, but this problem remains even though it was announced two years ago that it would resolve the wateriness of the Sava River because there are certain saddle barriers. So surely I agree with you to sit down until the second reading and these remarks that we have made once more, and we all want a quality law to be a quality tool for transparent management of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67567	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67568	Thank you very much. So, dear colleague Vlaovic, you mentioned and begged that a provision be included in this law that would allow the construction of residential areas to be built. I would also join and pray to the legislator who is very good, and I believe that this is precisely why he comes here in the first reading so that the second one can be further completed, and we can somehow include these observations in Article 45 in the availability of properties that go in favour of units of local and regional (regional) self-government without compensation in this paragraph 3 which says that it is carried out specifically for the purpose of implementing a demographic reconstruction programme to stand and to build residential areas. In particular, areas that require and which should have special state care areas that were once affected by war are areas in which years especially in recent years the state has invested very much through European funds, donations from the Japanese government, Norway and so on, and there are now beautiful small kindergartens, schools and even sports halls. It would also be good if there was state land that we could assign cities and municipalities to even these settlements so that they could build new residential areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67569	The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67570	Well, fellow Members, I agree with you that in the context of state property management, we must also think about the situation and the location where it is impossible to reach the building land in terms of growth and development of the economy and the increase of the state's income. The same proposal of yours to fit into this article and residential zone is certainly established, and I have added that already those existing properties where the owner of the state in the districts of Okucani, so there are such situations both in the vicinity of Vukovar and Vinkovaca where the APN agency bought those houses. There are people who are interested in either buying these houses or giving themselves to them because we have to run a population settlement policy in Slavonia, not allowing them to move away from the house because a lot of young families left Okuchan could not solve their living space. Here's a chance now that through these properties, state property, and I believe it's not of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia that it can be transferred to the local self-government unit so that such cases can be solved, and plus those social cases that local self-government units also care about and try to find solutions for them, but they don't have their own space to give them an apartment or a house to use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67571	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67572	Your Honor, Vice President. When we talk about Đura Djakovic, I've worked there since '85. until the 1990s in the special vehicles plants at the final installation of the production of tanks where we produced up to 250 armored tanks, M 84 at the time was the market in Kuwait, where we sold these same tanks. It was the exchange of technologies, the progress, the planning of the Degmar and there continued and the Patrius project we're talking about, but you were talking about recapitalisation, so I'm going to answer that. I'm reading from the documents that are available to me, he says like this. Djuro Djakovic threw the money into the bank's capitalisation of Tesla during the coalition's cornfield. The director was from HNS Kovacevic. And of course, with Milanovic's knowledge. The same Kovacevic signed a contract for PR services with Nenada Stazovic's wife. Her company's name is... And the contract was at 30,000 kuna a month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We haven't seen a single PR action for Djuru Djakovic. The unions of Djura Djakovic noticed this, so the famous contract with EX Stazicko was terminated. Kovačević, who was sent to Djuru Djakovic by Cačić and Vrdoljak, went with the driver every day from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod. So now calculate the costs of the great director of experts, who left Djuru Djakovic in debt of 150 million kuna. All she needed was Tesla Bank, to complete the collapse of this giant, thus destroying the possibility of building a combat vehicle for NATO. Russia's destruction of giants would be very appropriate. After Kovacevic's decimation, Djuro Djakovic received money from Hvor to cover losses and develop the project... And of that money, part of it went to Tesla Bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I look at what it says and the facts, I'm not surprised why the Russians would be interested in this giant collapse and everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67573	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67574	Thank you. My colleague Culej, I fully agree with you that all those who have been made, and the damage has been done to Đuri Djakovic and through these activities, which you have listed, including through the said armored combat vehicle, when it was intended to be armed and we had a quality product to arm it with Đure Djakovic, received some other company work. That's just saying, even though she was on the list of strategic governments and states, all of these ministries, so far, have treated the companies as they said most of them were and the result is that now the company is in trouble and it needs recapitalisation and that's why I mentioned recapitalisation. And if this was the last moment, precisely because of the defender who goes there over 400, as far as I know in special vehicles and who deserve those jobs to be preserved, and not just them, because in Djur Djakovic, ties and a series of craftsmen and entrepreneurs as co-operatives and should further develop in Brod Posavina County and the wider area and thus contribute to the development of Slavonia, Slavonski Brod, then it would be a project of Slavonia. And as long as these cases happen, which you've read, we're not going forward. Let us condemn all such, give opportunity to capable men and lead the company to a better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67575	Thank you very much. And the last Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformist and independent MPs on behalf of whom the respected representative Rechimer Varda will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67576	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, it's a little late, the games are almost starting, my colleague Bulj is asking me to be brief, because then right behind me with an individual debate. That's why I don't intend to repeat what we believe as a club is positive in the bill. Because actually, already so much... However, he would warn the prime minister of state property management that it is necessary, with the portfolios of the tourism, agriculture and forestry ministry, to coordinate some things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have here, another set of forest laws that we should coordinate to enforce this law. That I'm not just talking about the Property Act and other real rights. That's all. So it seems to me, perhaps a little humor, that we should pass law on law enforcement. I don't think you'll be able to honor all these deadlines you've predicted here, because bureaucracy will do its part again. That's exactly why my colleague Hrg was talking about, that's why we don't get a lot of things going on. To us, the State's Attorney's Office and the police have actually become the government. Because people, they're just afraid, even the most ordinary deal to make. The most ordinary settlement in the dispute. I'd rather pay expenses, interest and all that, than have someone report you to the State's Attorney's office, don't give God, and then you know how long it takes. And that's the whole problem, in our country that's the problem. I must say, I'm glad that Mr. Secretary has come now, where I had one of the parliamentary questions about him, I'm taking your hat off. We need to withstand pressures and threats and pass a bill like this. But you won't solve all the problems with him. You won't solve any problems. Look, we're here today, all the time talking about being one. We are one. It's just a question of who's the owner of the property. Who's the titler, because the titler of ownership carries both responsibilities and obligations. We look forward, so we say, to kindergarten schools and everything that goes to municipalities, local units, cities of municipalities, cities, counties, in property, but it carries obligations. I'm actually pleased by the second article, in which you say, that it is actually aimed at putting state property into economic function. That seems to me the purpose of this law. If so, then I am pleased that you are proposing this law, and it is in favour of municipalities, cities and counties, to propose in article 45 to conduct yourself in order to make economic progress and demographic development, to have real estate available to units of local and regional self-government and without compensation, especially for the purpose of achieving projects to build entrepreneurship infrastructure, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, homes, institutions, social care, cemeteries, especially waste management facilities. And that will also, they will become the titleholders, therefore, owners, and that is bound by the obligation to apply the law and uphold all other laws that regulate all possible investments and plans. Well, if you want to share. A little bit in the state budget, a little municipalities, a little town, a little county. But I would not further praise what I think is really well proposed but would look back on the club’s name on what individual representatives in the name of clubs pointed out, which should be prepared in the final text by the second reading or for the second reading. This is the first disagreement with the provision of Article 69, namely in Article 69, we propose not to set a deadline at all because it is too short to extend the period to two years from the date of entry into force of the law in view of the provision of Article 77. The property compensation law seized during the Yugoslav communist rule is based on an unlimited period of time for the submission of claims for the establishment of property rights and given the large number of properties, especially in the area of the city of Zagreb. Furthermore, in part of the transitional and final provisions, we propose to add a new article that will regulate the provisions of this law under the name of Chapter 7. Real estate management also applies to local self-government units. In the part relating to the management and availability of real estate, given the fact that the proposed law in the management and availability of real estate due to the different regulation of the conduct of the state and units of local self-government leads to an inequality in the way that the units of local self-government are bound by the restrictions laid down by the Law on ownership and other rights and other regulations, while the State, under this law, prescribes different modes and rules of conduct in the possession of real estate. We believe that such behaviour should be uniform for both the state and the local and regional self-government units because of greater legal certainty and security in economic business. Furthermore, as far as Article 68(5) is concerned, I know that you will have problems with the current registered chief of staff or the State's Attorney's Office. But if, according to ancient Roman law, we are also followers, someone in good faith acted, and in this case they are units of local and regional self-government, there is no reason but no reason for them to be able to benefit from that property, and they were listed as the titler, in good faith, that all the benefits they gained were handed over to the ministry or state. So, I suggest that with the State's Attorney's Office, it's only part of the government of this country, to solve it, I think all of these possible objections to this bill would be avoided, that this is the provision that causes the most discussion and disagreement. Let me finish for my colleague, Bull. Respected ministers with co-workers, the Labour and Solidarity Party Club, reformists and independents will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. We hope that all these discussions that you have heard today and the remarks and proposals will be incorporated into the final text of the law and that we will vote dearly for this law and that you will continue to take care of at least that part of the legal acts and laws of Croatia in cooperation with other resolutions and, through the Government of the Republic, propose the necessary amendments to these laws so that this law can be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67577	Thank you, Mr. Varda. You have one replica from Mr. Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67578	Here is dear colleague Varda, you have touched in your presentation of article 45, which you have partially quoted, seen as an article that is positive and affirmative in the context of fostering economic progress, the social status of citizens and the unification of economic and demographic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. However, I want to give you this opportunity, which is why I did report for the replica, and I am telling you this on the basis of the practice so far that the problem because of the unequal interpretation of such provisions and I will be specific to the ministry and with the proposal so that Article 45 paragraph 3 of subparagraph 1 might in that case be read without excluding anyone, and it reads "Creating projects for the construction of entrepreneurship infrastructure and other projects which significantly contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the paragraphs of this article." Article 45. has an explicit indication of what it implies. And we are talking about prosperity and economic development, so depending on who we come to the ministry or in the department, it depends on his free interpretation and when we say to achieve these goals, then we still give ourselves a broad opportunity and we all aim to get to the economic development and well-being of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67579	Thank you very much. Mr. Varda's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67580	Comrade Demetlik, I'm signing what you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67581	Thank you, too. I'm moving on to individual debates, the first in line is Mr. Miro Bulj, please. Mr. Miro Bulj, you're up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67582	As the minister said at the beginning, chaos and disorder in the state property this law is trying to find a solution to first know who owns, how much property of the state, to see what we're managing because the fact that so far has not been the case, but I will warn you once more about what I was saying. So when he was DUDDI, the director could handle one million, and the minister here with 7.5 million. ...I don't think it's smart at least because of the possibility that the minister is given great authority, it's a fact. Here's a fellow smiled a little, but the fact is it's true, it can be checked in the bill and the good thing it's in the first reading. Article 69, where a description of the properties that are entered as ownership of the Republic of Croatia, states all that would be prescribed to units of local self-government is given a deadline of 31.12.2002 at the moment in paragraph 2 to copy units of local and regional self-government is well and commendable, however, those most important resources we have, such as: This morning I said I'm putting forward a proposal, military facilities and surfaces that we have and along the coast at terribly good locations where the development of these units of local self-government, investment development where we can't plan what needs to be planned, that those who decide to do so should do so, and that's local self-government. Not only can local self-government take over this law. I spoke earlier in an example of planning somewhere in the forest where the owners of the Croatian forest are to plan golf courses and that these golf courses are essentially at that moment this space is owned by a ministry that proposes the law of property while local self-government assumes the obligations of building infrastructure, which is the problem, and around it remains the property of Croatian forests. So local self-government, and with that, lords later the Ministry of Property. So that's where the maimed local self-government is. We in this first reading in this good intention to put this in place, of course, we want it to change. I would personally say that this is about large resources of potential, Croatia has not been good at protecting its resources. We have territorial waters, we have the Adriatic Sea, we have land, these are huge treasures. We didn't even in the Adriatic protect our cultural goods in the submarine because we didn't have the courage to declare what the UN Convention of '82. It asks us for years, which it has allowed under international maritime law and EU recommendations to protect our, our natural resources both on the Adriatic and on the mainland. Because we need to know that we are in Central Europe, we have the greatest importance precisely because of the Adriatic and we have to declare it an exclusive economic belt. It is an EU recommendation, so it is a healthy logic to protect our seas and everything in the sea, underwater and underwater. It's our responsibility. Who's protecting the cultural well-being of the submarine now? It's the same state property, it's our property. How many very important cultural objects do we have in our submersibles? No one's controlling it. And it's state property of the minister, so I'd like to pray that I don't know if this law can, but by law, it's a special law, but all we have to protect, not to be surprised at in the UN, which is why the Croats won't declare an exclusive economic belt. And '82. For years, we have committed ourselves to the convention as a state then, but we are signatories. Therefore, I think we should have the courage to write down the property, we are rich in state, we must not allow two-thirds of Croatia to be empty. This property is used for the purpose of developing local self-government for the purpose of the survival of people in these areas, and I believe that all that we have said by the parliamentary representatives that the minister will respect until the second reading and that is why I say it is good that this goes in the second reading I would once again say that it is too much 7.5 million kuna for the minister. So look at how many particles Croatia has, how many movables and real estate it has, how many shares it has, and the minister we have authorized 7.5 million kunas with this proposal. I'm just going to read these 7.5 million and we raised it from a million to 7.5 million. I repeat, the director of DUUDI has the authority of a million kuna, and the current proposal gives the minister 7.5 million kuna. I can count that I am untrustworthy of this and that because of you ministers say this, when we are fed up with the Hypo 5 billion affair, Fimi Media 30 million, the affair of the Croatian Railways 20 million, the INA affair 2 billion, the Trucks affair 34 billion, the affair of battleships that returned in points or carioli, the Brodosplit affair 27 million, the Salonit affair, an affair of fearing tunnels that, with 30 million kuna instead of 4 kuna per square color 220, the Planinska affair, the Dalmatino affair, the Dalmatinka affair, the auto transport affair, the Uljanik affair, the affair is all our state property, and we, by this act and the register which the minister has said that all property will have to be exclusively for development, and not the brakes in local self-government. Here I am giving, I wouldn't last any longer if this is about mineral raw materials, ore wealth where the state has the biggest profit there, very little local self-government, but these are laws that don't concern this, but it's very good to list everything. So this register that you have announced will be very important and to be transparent and here is the decentralisation that is very important if it is not decentralised and given to people who live in governance, and people choose their mayors, mayors, council members, the mayors will punish them. But if the addiction of the people on the ground is always dependent on goodwill, DUUDI, and now the Ministry of Property, the Croatian Forests for the basic some kind of road communal connection that they have been waiting for years to get that paper so they can do either the economic zone or something like that which is important to that local self-government. Here's what I said a few things, and all my fellow parliamentary representatives were seeing constructively about this topic because the minister had, is a good intention of this law and the intensity to stop this chaos once. And here's the minister because of you it's much better not to go on seven and a half million kunas, to remain on a million of your authority because you know that everything in perspective can affect a number of, many as there have been kinships in many where the property of the Croatian state is, can be preferred. And I think it's too much. One hundred times seven million you see what it is, and what thousand times it is, and there will be thousands of demands, hundreds of thousands, and I'm saying this for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67583	Thank you, too. The first replica, Mr. Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67584	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, so Articles 37 and 52, which speak of exactly these seven and a half million kunas. In fact, I can understand the reasons why he raised to 7 and a half million kuna, and these are the reasons that we talk to the media most often, we talk about the slowness of the system, the slowness of decision-making, that a lot is waiting, that investors are waiting, that some things are not solved. And if it's going to go in that direction to speed it up, of course we'll say hello. Of course, the minister and that is the other side of the medal will have to ensure for themselves all the protection mechanisms in making the decision. It's the easiest thing, and that's what's happening to us in our administration to take down responsibility and move on, so I won't sign it. In this entire system, we are facing a paralyzing situation where no one wants to take responsibility for anything, because someone might call it tomorrow. And that's what's wrong with us and the state administration, people don't want. Not on this side that someone's good for someone, but I simply don't want to take responsibility for me tomorrow in this House or the media calling me something we did, etc. Well, as far as the evaluation is concerned, any decisions. And here we need to look for the best solution in which the absolute minister will have to protect every decision and she has to have her own procedure. But on the other hand, I would then make the same logic that is mentioned in article 7 and the Society Assembly that I mentioned earlier, that societies in the majority ownership of the state and their daughters should not have more than a million. They transfer it to the congregations, then there's a little bit of logic to me the other way around. I'd like to make one mechanism here if at least it were transferred to the board of directors because it would be faster. Well, then, the congregation, if it's really something else. I've personally been on boards and it's the easiest thing for me to do is transfer it to the congregation, not my responsibility. And let someone else go, so let it be called together, and let it wait. Maybe that's where to find that intermodel. As far as our committee is concerned. [[Mr. Curaj, thank you. Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67585	You want to answer Mr. Bull? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67586	Well, of course it's a very important responsibility and who decides and the speed of the decision. I just wanted to say that local self-government, regional self-government, are people living on that ground, and they should also take responsibility for both planning and investment but they know best of course in accordance with the law on how to manage and what is best for the development of that part. I'm sure you know better in your area than I or the minister because it's not from your area. And that's what we're going to do, not that the leaders are dependent on decisions, i.e. on various decisions, ministry decisions, agencies. In fact, it's so complicated that just investors give up. So three five, six years for a basic pair of papers to a man who wants to invest in an undeveloped area in an economic zone. That's a fact. And as for these seven and a half million kunas I mentioned, I forgot some of the same things where the state and state property were damaged. Moving and immovable assets and shares. So here I can mention here's the HAC affair, highway construction, municipal contribution to Dugopolje, from Dugopolje to Ravca. The Spice affair around Podravka 400 million kuna, the Consulance affair, the affair Croatian Post office bank 255 million, the Dimler affair, 310 fire trucks, the HEP affair around the loan payment 15 million, the Veron affair, the wind power plant affair, the wind park affair, the Golden War affair, the ports, the port administration. So we have so much wealth, so much money has been drawn, it's so much that we have to protect it from any thought, any possibility. But it's better for the minister not to be seven million. Seven and a half million is not small. In every decision of the state, he of seven and a half million can talk about buildings, property, shares. Even the shares are government property, only if it's not worth the rule that money isn't property that some wanted to get away with so they're not shares of property. Therefore, this is a very serious matter. [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67587	Thank you very much. You'll get plenty more opportunities. Mr. Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67588	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bully, you abuse the subject of today's debate by making insinuations that have absolutely no connection to the subject, the agenda point. So, the Department of State Property and here are practically disproportionate to your insinuations with various topics that have nothing to do with this desire to change the situation and create conditions that the ministry can work normally. Well, the military and the police can't function unless they have conditions. The Ministry of State Property can't work, change the terms practically don't ask how much the Minister of State Property will bring to the state budget when it activates all state property to how much it will create money and space for many other things in the state to change. So, absolutely abuse this topic, let the ministry create conditions to inform itself, that it is practically organized in a way that all state property can be put into operation, connected because certainly without better conditions it is impossible to do so. Are we going to testify again that it's working the way that DUUDI's worked so far? So here is the express desire and intention of this ministry to edit and bring to an end, and you, with your proposal, are practically trying to obstruct what is not ultimately does not lead to this common goal that you all want together and that you are declaring. So without safe conditions and resources, this ministry cannot handle, and therefore we support the Minister's proposal to realise this and to bring this system to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67589	Thank you. ...answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67590	I don't know where I criticized this law, I said a few proposals, so local self-government would be your goal, too, especially when you remember the Golden War that was happening,...the other laws of concession. I'm just listing that this law-intention is good and that we should support it and I would like what the minister said to be incomed by a billion and 400 million based on this law. I believe what the minister said will happen in the budget, I just said my proposals and I read what we don't do and we don't protect. I know it may be hard for you now to admit that the exclusive economic belt should have long ago been declared, it's our right, no one else can do that to us, it's a real '82 convention. The year of the UN, it's our right. So many EU countries have declared it, and we do not protect and protect our seas because the sea is also a territorial part of ours. So I'm in my own presentation and I've said two examples that we're trying to change, the burden falls on local utility self-government, and the profits to the ministries. Is that okay, colleague Skoric? Maybe it was around the Golden War when the concession was awarded, maybe that part was great, so you had to change the mayor, I accept. We can go along with the whole, so you'll see how lawlessly concreteizes in Split... we'll be paying into the city's budget and county money. I know he's your coalition partner now, but it's the property of the citizens of Kerum, it's neither Skoric's nor Buljevo. Let them pay what the Croatian beaches use to concreteise, fence. And you... I'm not talking about the subject, that I'm talking about the subject and I'm supporting this situation, this is the first reading, and in this first reading I have the right to state my position in the interest of local self-government. Croatia has been robbed of state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67591	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67592	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Bulj hurt Article 238. A Rules of Procedure where he speaks of a subject that is not subject to discussion. Therefore, I would ask you, Vice President, that you do not allow such things in the future, that there is no need for debate to spread to topics that have absolutely nothing to do with today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67593	The article is 238, whether or not it is, and best to stay in the air. Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67594	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bulj, you spoke of the role of the local self-government unit in this law. I think that clearly local self-government units should co-operate with the Ministry of State Property and I think they work very well together and there is responsibility and units of local self-government and ministry. I would like to make a proposal, I hope the minister will listen to me and his secretary of state, since it is common interest and the Ministry of State Property and the units of local self-government to put the property into office, to find potential investors and buyers for property. Is it possible that, as a percentage of the unit of local self-government that would help activate such assets in sales, such as land? Is it possible to leave a certain percentage to a local self-government unit that would be further stimulated to find a buyer, to find an investor to put state property into office? That's one thing. You were here in your presentation talking about resources and we have resources, but I would talk about human resources. Here's from personal experience I know this law is going in the right direction, there are things my colleagues have objected to, but I'm not going into that depth, but I'm going to say I think it's going in the right direction, but the law so far has been good, but the problem has been realisation. And here I would now cite what really bothers me not only at the Ministry of State Property but generally in the ministries of these bureaucracys and these human resources. Do we have enough human resources, enough quality people to enforce these laws? From my personal experience, I can say no. There are very good legal proposals with ministers, ministers have good will, good ideas, and then we don't have human resources that will realize it, and that's where we don't pass the laws, and that's where this country stands, and it doesn't realize everything you've drawn. It's a good will, but Mr. Secretary of State, you can get rid of your co-workers in the ministry so this can all work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67595	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67596	Well, a colleague would agree with you to support any intensification that solves this problem of state property and property management, mostly at local level... property in one place. There's neither property in Mark's square nor in the ministry, so that's the reality where people live. There will certainly be problems about human resources. But you are saying that cooperation, yes, is the most important thing in this cooperation and that responsibility is known mainly to local self-government. So 13 comments on this bill gave the Association of Cities, you can see them in this bill, 13 comments. None of them have been accepted. So from the Association of Cities in the Republic of Croatia 113 comments were, none were accepted. I believe that the minister will read again and see if there is any possibility of getting along with the Association of Cities because these are the people who live on that ground, these are the people who were elected on local self-government to develop this local self-government and there are no brakes. Of course, everything should be in accordance with the law, and not that because of one permit, I have an example in the economic zone that was built in Sinj by a railway that no longer exists, that is Stara Rera in Sinj, for years it has been asked for approval from the Croatian Railways to get the opportunity to build this economic zone, only this paper has been waiting for years. That's the problem. If an economic zone had been created before, surely there would have been more investors because it would have been done before, and then Croatia was more in development. I therefore believe that the ministry must bring this into line with the units of local self-government, decentralisation and responsibility, of course, and these are real estates that are in the area of local self-government. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67597	Thank you, too. The last replica of Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67598	Comrade Bulj, I will refer to this part of you who spoke of the height of the minister. So we should be overjoyed that one minister takes responsibility for that height and that he is willing to bear such responsibility on his back. I think it's precisely the minister's and ministry's intensity that with the shortest and in one way more expedient it can make decisions. When compared to the old law, then it was the commission that had millions to 100 million kunas, and then the government's decision. So, this minister just speeds up the process and it can't be done, and that's what colleagues mentioned to link it to these procedures that you listed. Because in the previous period, all these ministers you mention as affairs also had heights, held to the height of a million kunas, so that's what happened. So the height doesn't necessarily mean there's going to be some kind of affair. So it depends on how people work, and so I think that this is quite a positive shift that someone wants to take responsibility and do it quality way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67599	Mr. Bull has the right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67600	Representative Peric, so I didn't say the minister would come at that stage. However, the possibility opens. Seven times the amount here is higher than previously in DUUDI, now the ministry is getting, i.e. The minister in that person gets a decision. And as for the affair, of course, they should not be prejudged, but whom the snake bites and the lizard fears. We can just take a look at the example of the highway. Here you need to get to Zadar, me to Dugopol or my colleague Pranic to Vrgorec and it would be a significant investment. However, as much as was invested, i.e. How much of the money has been recovered we can list on the subject of only the Split Ironworks. Not a gram, I'll do it again, we have to do it. We had a Croatian hardware store that was, was out of business, everything was falling apart. However, a gram of iron is not invested, it is not built in the highway from Zagreb to Split. I mean, it's such a problem, but no, it's not. Look, that's why we're moving out. That's why we have two-thirds of Croatia. I know you're from Zadar, he was Mr. Calmett who took care of the locals and he was a minister. Of course I'm not going to talk about painting the tunnel right now, this, that and I'm glad he built Zadar. However, two-thirds of Croatia is empty. Look at the flat wheels. I was recently in municipalities where there was no water supply. So, it wasn't done transparently, it wasn't done transparently to our companies, our companies, and we all have these people who were in the Split Ironworks, probably in Ireland, probably. It's only a matter of possibilities here to prevent any affair. Seven million kuna, hey. Seven and a half million kunas the minister must sign. One piece of the military is easily copied without any knowledge, and that's his authority. I'm not saying it's gonna be done, but that's what gave him the chance. ... You believe him, but I'm saying that all these affairs, probably when they were afraid of 30 kuna tunnels, they went to 300 kuna, afraid of the tunnel. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So what do you want to do now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67601	Mr. Bull, let's not have another affair. Let's move on. Mr. Ante Babic is coming up as an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67602	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for this law on state property management, in fact, is one of those laws which should, of course, contribute to the new investment climate in the Republic of Croatia along with other laws. From the presentation of representatives today in the Croatian Parliament it was actually evident that this debate was correct, that it was conducted professionally and argued, that it was life and that it would actually live in practice. Or I would dare say that there was no ideological colour, and this is seen by the participation of almost all the club representatives more than 80 replicas and several other individual debates that will follow me, which actually speaks of the importance of adopting this law. I believe that the expert group also took into account the connection with other laws concerning this law, the Law on Tourism Land, the Law on Carbs, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Forests, the Law if you want the State's Attorney's Office. That's actually what I'm telling you from the Ministry for reasons that we might not have passed this law, and then in practice we actually see that some things in practice don't work. Surely, the minister said in his statement that this law should have taken one step forward in improving state property management, knowing that certain things are connected. What exactly did this debate show today? All the clubs that debated are aware of the bad situation with the management of state property. It's very important and that's why it's good that this law is in the first reading. Secondly, these recommendations and suggestions I said were not ideologically colored which is very good. During the whole debate, they were actually lifelike and it should give you another extra wind in the back to do all the other readings that can be discussed and better done to make them happen as such. Examples from the practice that colleagues today discussed throughout the day should be well considered. In fact, a law that could make us trouble again in practice wouldn't be good. The proposal for this law should explain how this proposal is intended to improve the situation itself in practice and should explicitly specify what it does to the state property managed by the Ministry of State Assets, as well as the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, which was read again from the debates of our deputies themselves. In this law, and I keep saying that, and in all other laws that are passed in the Republic of Croatia, it is also important to take care of the demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia, or demographic restoration, and I am glad that in Article 45(3), you actually touched this problem while it should be extended to family houses or residential settlements in particular in those rural areas. From the presentation of our colleague Mrs. Mrak-Taritash we were actually talking about certain things of units of local self-government which are tied up and distributed throughout Croatia and it is not as simple as it may seem at first sight, because a large part of our municipalities especially in the rural part they have this Halkid style of settlement which actually makes it impossible for the local self-government unit leaders themselves to manage better. But I always think that such things should be considered for what it is. Therefore, the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land also showed that far better can be managed from the level of units of local self-government than from the level of the central state, or from the ministries themselves. I also think that it is necessary to respect, respect the observations and suggestions of the units of local self-government and all in order to place state property in office or in revenue for the state budget. On the other hand, there must be no interference with the principle of subsidiarity, since selecting the mayors, mayors, city councils and municipal councils directly if we do not believe that they can be good lords and that they can manage state property mainly because one part of that state property is actually being transferred to local self-government units. This bill is indeed a major shift compared to the existing one because it is good to bring both strategic and planning documents and strategies to 7 years and will make it possible to make sure that state assets are available more efficiently, which is actually the goal. So that I don't owe and take time, until the second reading, I hope your ministry's working group has enough time to analyse this whole debate, take into account all the comments and suggestions. And I wish you a great deal of success in saying this law and, with other laws, being a strategic, investment law not to say reform law, I would dare say the reform law that he should actually be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67603	Thank you, too. There's no replica. The second speaker is as an individual debate Mr. Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67604	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I've already said something through replicas, so I'm going to try to sum up here what I haven't been able to say, and these are concrete objections to the law that I hope we'll fix by the second reading. So I'm still staying at what I said about the name of the law even though I don't think the minister understood right. But I'm sure even though we brought it here, and if we're warning now, perhaps some inadequacy, the minister must have voted against that law. So as far as the names were concerned, he just kept going. The second thing is, of course, the non-transparency of the high authority of the minister, so the abolition of the Commission on Commercial Companies and Real Estates and giving the minister the authority to decide on the sale of shares, business stakes, real estate worth up to 7 and a half million kuna and up to a million euros respectively. Indeed, it is very brave of the minister to have discretionary decisions on this matter more than the principle of the public or the principle of public when we talk about the management of state-owned properties but also the property in question is clearly defined. So that's what article 15 of the bill says about it, but it's very unarranged, strangely formulated and I say there's a lot of things that can be produced from that because the public will be regulated by additional regulations or regulations and strategies. We've seen that this government has produced a lot of things, including regulations that have led to trade wars, so we don't really have much confidence that this is really going to happen. It would be instructed to regulate the way the minister will make his decisions public. Transparency is therefore a problem. But it's not the only implementation problem we see. The solution offered in Article 8 states that units of local self-government in the adoption of a spatial plan are obliged only to notify the ministry if the spatial plan relates to both state property. I think and think it's a realistic thought that to make changes to a spatial plan that includes both state land or property, we also need the state's consent within 30 days, we think it's reasonable, perhaps shorter as we agree. But the units of local self-government have every honour and they really come from a lot of initiatives, projects, a lot of work. However, if we are talking about state ownership then the state must have the right to say whether it wants to see its land redeployed or not, is there any other interest that the state should regulate through that land. Thirdly, when we talk about the supervision of state property when we talk about the findings that all state lords think it is not wise to single out a register of state property outside the Ministry of Property whether or not the Ministry owns it. But we think that one of the reasons why the Ministry of Property was founded was that all state property data was compiled in one place, so that it was available, the ministers who had the minister of property whether or not he directly owned the property and that in this way the government, and we, too, if you want to know what was in the possession of the state and what wasn't put into effect. Article 68 provides that contracts concluded with natural or legal persons by units of local self-government on the basis of a public tender carried out in relation to the properties considered by the Republic of Croatia as being owned by the Republic of Croatia. There is a problem because a large part of these properties are based on a public tender where the initial price was significantly below its market price. It is rare that the amount of kuna per metre per square metre for building land. Such contracts shall not be recognised until the market value is established at the time of sale of the property. Let's not argue that maybe the state will sell at that price if it's no different, but in the interest of transparency it would be so. It is impossible to apply Article 57(6) in the manner prescribed in this Proposal of the Law, as part of the property in the procedural labs is recorded on the so-called so-called ‘. descriptive mode. So there's no indication of particles because at some point for various reasons it wasn't possible. This is how de facto part of the property will become property of the Republic of Croatia through the application of the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land, which is priceless in the process of conversion and privatisation, even though they are realistically assessed in the core capital of former social enterprises. Cerpit should therefore, in the administrative procedure, determine whether certain properties have been descriptively assessed in the underlying capital, otherwise such a legal solution will generate a large number of judicial proceedings. So we're going to fast the exact opposite effect of what we've been trying to do instead of efficiency and speeds we can re-attach a series of lawsuits and disputes in front of courts that will retaliate and that will last indefinitely. Article 45 does not provide for assumptions that units of local self-government must fulfil in order to transfer property to them. The current law prescribes it, therefore, again there is a great discretionary right of the minister to decide for himself. We fear that such great powers of the minister might actually be reflected in the fact that certain similar or those who for some reason are corresponding to the minister or political elite currently in power will be given real estate, will have full co-operation of the ministry while others will not have it because they are political competitors or for some other reason. Therefore, the main objection is high intransparency, large powers in the hands of only one man who can discreetly decide much, which almost does not have to inform the public, or are not clear on how they will do so. My colleagues used to say a lot about it, so we too have doubts about any direct contracts that would arise here at what cost and whether it means selling our assets, therefore, state property invaluable. Because of this, I am expressing a reserve according to this legislative proposal, I hope that in the second reading we will have a much better and better-quality legislative proposal that we will finally be able to support, but until such a proposal is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67605	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. First Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67606	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, you have opened a very important topic by mentioning article 15 and the principle of the public. In fact, we believe that this principle is not as well defined as you have said, because it cannot be a public principle if Article 55(2) states that the record referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is not a public register, it is a state property record. We have a systemic problem, I warned Minister Tolusic yesterday in the agriculture portfolio, where he has a series of databases that are not connected to each other and cannot be connected because they are made with different software solutions that are not standardised. And now be careful, in Article 55, if it says that the Ministry of Records will deliver the data from the Central Register of State Property. What does it mean today in information time to deliver some data? If there are databases, the databases must be connected and it doesn't matter where they are. Are they in the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society? We also have a formed Council for State Information Infrastructure. So we want to be the information society. We introduce basic school information as a mandatory subject, but we need to get serious and we need to build information systems. Then this article would actually be pointless. The database is a good question whether it will be public or not, but the databases must be connected, must be applicable at any time, from these databases must be read, the minister must read at any time how much assets he has and whether that property is in office. Of course a much bigger problem is to list state property, it tried in 2014, and we have only a list left, to have real databases it takes a lot more effort and I want in this sense a lot of success here the minister, I see him standing there, a lot of ministers and his associates to finally do it and to make these bases applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67607	Thank you, too. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sagar, to agree with you, therefore, on the unification of an entire information base that would unite not only this information necessarily but everything. Unfortunately, experience teaches us if the database is located in different institutions that this is exactly what you're talking about. And that is that different information solutions then exist, that there is a discrepancy, that they are not always connected. In other words, the left doesn't know what the right does. As far as public information is concerned, and through land books, we can read what state property is, it's public data. So if there's a justification for keeping some of the data secret, we have nothing against it. But as a rule, it should be public data not only owns the state but also masters. And what's the biggest problem, you touched that, and that's intransparency, so I'd take advantage of it since I have a little time read you article 15. What it says – The principle of public governance of state property shall be ensured by prescribing the transparent rules and criteria of state property management in the regulations and other acts adopted under this law and by their public publication by setting out the objectives of state property management, the State Property Management Strategy and the Annual Management Plan of State Property, regular public knowledge of the activities of bodies managing state property and public publication of decisions on state property management. In translation I read it by colleagues and colleagues that we will again be witnesses to be informed, a little plastic expression, about sold land or real estate in Slavonia are published in the Voice of Istria or that the same about what was done in Istria is published in the Voice of Slavonia, it is unacceptable. Therefore, there must be a clear standardised way of notifying both the public and the transparency of the management of state assets and the experience taught would best be prescribed in the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67609	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, you said one thesis in your presentation that units of local self-government should seek the consent of the Ministry of State Property when adopting spatial plans. As head of the local self-government unit at one time, I can also tell you safely as other leaders that it is easier to bring city and municipal budgets than to adopt a spatial plan for the development of a particular city and municipality. Since we must seek the conditions of all public authorities where many state institutions are, so we must seek the consent of the county offices, so we must seek the consent of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on the necessary environmental impact assessment study, so that we can carry out that environmental impact assessment study, together with all the public debates and all the points, again to all public authorities to establish, to give us confirmation that we can even vote on a spatial plan. And now in your replica, in your presentation, you say we should still seek further consent from the Ministry of State Property. I think these existing ones should cut back a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67611	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I really appreciate you working very hard in the units of local self-government that you said yourself in the exposure of engines, generators, of you coming initiatives for many projects and making the lives of people living in your unit of local self-government better. And I only referred to changes in GUP that would include state property, so state land. Let's say you put yourself in a position to change the purpose of state land from building land into an oran, so I think the state has to say something about it, it has to give consent. I know and the county have it, but I'm saying, if it relates to state property, I think the state should at least have a chance to say something about it, because a colleague I don't doubt your intentions are good and that you're going bona fide. And we're going bona fide by prescribing this law, but I'm afraid again taught by the experience that not everyone thinks like you and that there may be certain malversions. That's all we want to avoid, so only when the GUP changes is covered by state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67613	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates. Mrs Grozdana Peric, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67614	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. It's pretty much said in this debate by now, but here I'm going to take this opportunity to actually say something about my city and what we faced with the problem of state property and what it looked like in my Zadar. We are one of the cities on the coast that we were interesting and in that country and then JNA had large complexes of military and it may have saved us in one part and saved us that one part of the valuable space in one way was protected from perhaps some crazy building, but on the other hand it takes too long to bring into function these and such spaces and objects. One part of the military was assigned here, for example. The university campus where the University plans to create a large campus that will in any case promote the development of the city, education of young people and attract young people to our city. On the other hand, we had an example of good co-operation with the institutions at the time, which were the MRLs, whether DUDI or AUDI, which had available state property, so we got the right to build in some areas, so we built our hall. Also the right to build on the part where the pool is. But then with the Department of Defense, we didn't get it without compensation. In fact, we were obliged to pay more than 5 million kuna for that land that was not immediately realised and it is still in the process, because MORH had some visions of a different resolution of these relations. And in this age of 5, 10 years ago, here are the areas of social housing that we are neatly also in cooperation with the state and the ministries because one part of the land is used for other purposes and the social housing that has been made out of city funds, so that there has been and there is a very good cooperation so that one part of these provisions of the law has actually been used in one way. And in any case, the city is also stimulated by housing, e.g. part of its land invested to that end in order to actually boost growth and development and meet certain needs of the population. What I would like to say is, in any case, to welcome this proposal in the very law and article 69, where certain facilities such as schools, homes of health and similar facilities will be taxed, hospitals etc. solve property-legal because this is although what our colleague Bacic was saying there will be quite a problem in the implementation and certain security congestion, however, the goal and intensity must certainly be that these relations are resolved given that these and such facilities and thus in fact in the function of local self-government were regionally any cities and municipalities. Therefore, even when we mention that objects are being transferred here, and they are actually being given maintenance obligations, they are in one way already decentralised because there are means of decentralisation for both health, social protection and education. Thus, one part of the problem has already been used, or in one way solved, because these funds have been provided under these laws so far. What's important here is to say that then local self-government, we had an example in the city itself where we didn't learn about the process of energy restoration schools precisely because they weren't those property legal relations solved, so then we only managed to run for one school. Of ten schools, actually, only one. Here I see actually how we are going to be able to use these resources offered from different forms of use of European Union funds in fact very good at how much of this way we solve this problem. What's even more important about us is that we have a military station nearby, and in fact our city library, which we've known for many years, and the minister knows, is also entitled to use, the right to build a space that would expand the capacity of the library itself, and also create a youth center. We were limited here because at the time there was no possibility of actually using the European Union's funds, and we ourselves did not have enough resources since we had previously built other buildings. And here's where a new possibility has been reopened that such an object can actually be brought into that function that we want, to expand the needs of our city library, and also to meet all these needs that really need youth associations, and here we see very good cooperation with the ministry and with all the subjects. Here are the examples from my city, and I think this is a quality proposal that should certainly be supported by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67615	Thank you, Mrs. Peric. You have one replica from Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67616	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Perić, I would agree with you in the part that the unit of local self-government of Zadar has had very good cooperation with all the governments so far and that it has been very prosperous because all the governments of the Republic of Croatia recognized both the geostrategic but also the long-term potential of the development of Zadar not only for the development of the whole of Dalmatia but also for the Republic of Croatia. And here you are right, and there was a very good climate, and when the Social Democratic Government was in power, especially from 2000 to 2003, it was never punishable for the fact that at the head of the local self-government unit, some other political option, therefore, was not given, approved by the project, and no land by the grandmothers, uncles, and by the local government's party cards, but was recognised by the good projects and the meaning of these projects for the development of an entire region. It's true that from 2000 to 2003, really, Zadar had his boom, we got the freeway. It's true what you said was that the state helped us very much with our land flow to build Pos's so-called so-called pos. Cacic's flats, so we built defensive apartments, we got a new building of the Criminal and Trade Court in a former military facility as well. We also know that Luka Galženica, who is now a key development generator, is then included in the port of importance for the development of the Republic of Croatia. Now we get and we get the same from the government and the former military of Stjepan Radić, where we will have a youth centre, an Italian camp molyat left to create a memorial centre, etc. etc. So this trend continues, and that's what should be commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67617	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67618	So, for one thing, the land on which POS's dwellings were built is the land of the city of Zadar. It is therefore important to note that the city of Zadar has given up so much to allow its citizens to receive favourable squares. I'm not saying that this but only this government was favored by the city, because it recognized those projects that both the mayor and the associates made in time, and then the government recognized that Luka Galženica was a development generator that took ten years to make the port really. However, your government is now Milanovic's government has stopped this development to the extent that it has been drawn up, it has tried in every way possible not to finish the port, but nevertheless it ends despite the change in the project and here, recognising the projects that we as a city had done what it did.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67619	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. The next speaker is Mr. Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67620	I thank the esteemed Vice President. I welcome Mr. Assistants from the Department of State Property. I want to point out what I think is important in this debate, or in the remarks that I will make, and since Croatia is the largest unused potential in the Republic of Croatia that can contribute to development and that Croatia really is a rich country of exactly property. And then this bill of law is ultimately a very important tool for the competent ministry to carry out its tasks and create a prerequisite for this great property to really come into office and benefit the citizens. I'll go by the points or by the articles of the law. I would like to point out Article 5 of the proposed law, where there is no mention of situations that may occur in river inductions, such as ports, or one type of tourism, river development tourism that could not therefore fit into sports and recreation playgrounds, camps, hotel complexes or other individually-numbered purposes. On the other hand, Article 8 provides for the fact that all units of local self-government are obliged to notify the ministry. I think it's an unnecessary job for this ministry. I think it would be quite enough that if the change of the spatial plan or the adoption of a new spatial plan gets into the state property or the premises on which the property of the Republic of Croatia is located that only in this case they are obliged to notify the ministry that they would not create additional unnecessary work. Article 8 of the Law sets out the principles. Those principles that are seen from the intensities of the law are not listed here, are the principle of purpose or opportunity. It shall be referred to in the explanation of the individual articles. Not specifically indicated. I think it would be good to bring it in for a reason because they're going to wonder why some decision was made for this reason or that reason. This principle can indeed be very useful because the same purpose will be fulfilled if a school on land is built, managed by a local self-government unit and the land is in a state or whatever. I also think that when implementing this law, the ministry should protect itself from one principle of efficiency because it will mean nothing to you if you conduct long-term, endless procedures where 100 decisive and undecided facts will be determined, and you will know how this procedure ultimately ends. So efficiency is one of the essential principles where you can deviate from some of the rules by these other principles of economics or whatever. I see one big hole in Articles 18 and 19 so the State Property Management Strategy and the Annual Management Plan of State Property where the role of the local self-government unit is left out. Here in the Croatian Parliament is a large number of mayors and mayors where you will get the key impulse from them, so what is important to them, what they are planning and why something should be included in the annual plan or to cover it with a strategy. I think one deadline to 30 should be prescribed. 06. if the adoption of the annual plan is up to 30. 09. that all those who are planning certain procedures to inform the competent ministry of these procedures and then to make one buildup, because every mayor knows best what he has of state property, what he needs, which he doesn't need, and that should be known by the ministry when he decides which way he will have the property. Furthermore, Article 37, which states in paragraph 4, the value of an asset that a minister who is estimated at 7 and a half million kuna may decide, I think is extremely low and we must, someone has spoken here, simply face the fact that people in responsible positions must be held accountable for their actions and have free and free hands. I think the 5m-euro limit, which is the small or large supply line towards the EU, is one border that could be applied in a specific case. Now, would there be any need to subsign someone from the government or otherwise, that should still be seen? But I think this decision-making line needs to be lifted, because it's really funny for the government to decide on something worth seven and a half million kuna. So if they took the entire value of real estate in the Republic of Croatia, the government should have a parallel government that would decide on the property in its possession. Furthermore, Article 44, which speaks of the ban on sub-letting and sub-letting, I believe that it will potentially be able to start certain economic activity or activity that is being initiated in a particular situation. You have similar solutions in the concession law where you allow situations to be resolved through subconcessions. Here in this case I think we should leave room for those who are on lease or rent to leave it to someone else, with the consent of the ministry, so if this property is used in the intended way. Article 49 provides that all dwellings for official needs are made available to them, and I think that one fence should be placed so that Article 41(5) does not apply to Article 49, because these people have been in peaceful possession for more than 5 years and would then acquire the right to buy these apartments, but I do not think it is the legislator's intensity that all those who are on duty and use a state apartment for more than 5 years can buy that apartment and buy it. In Article 50, another interesting situation where EU application consent projects will be given, therefore, by the Ministry, but does not want to take over the acquisition of those consents which are part of the legal, public legal body. I think that this obligation should be taken into account by the Ministry with one provision where it would have obtained this consent by requesting an official request, so that if they disobeyed in some 30 or 60 days, they would be deemed to have no objections and that these projects could be realised. Don't forget that Croatian forests, Croatian waters and other bodies are large systems of trompes that take a really long time to answer your requests and thus speed up the position of property. The article 51 mentions that the government will adopt procedural regulations, and what is necessary is that, for this too, the Ministry is worth deadlines, so if we have not set deadlines for this law, then the Government should certainly do so through Article. 51, i.e. procedural solutions where a deadline is set within which the competent ministry is obliged to provide an answer and decide on the application. And final. Article 69 concerning the transfer of ownership to units of local and regional self-government, a positive article on which so far has been significantly exhausted, a large set of certificates has been obtained, procedures have lasted for a year and several days, and such a technical possibility that all of this can be copied by the end of this year is really useful. Therefore, a law that can initiate the Republic of Croatia with the need to put more responsibility into the hands of the ministry through these provisions to obtain all approvals in that ministry and that the minister may decide on a far greater amount than proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67621	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debates. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67622	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with his associates. I view this law as an attempt to bring long-standing chaos and bad practices and abuses down into the frameworks of a regulated and functional state. That's what we'd like to be, it doesn't always work out for us, but to me it's a clear good intensity and good intention of this law, regardless of some imperfections it's visible. Of course, it was necessary to put an end to both free and unlawful use of state property. It's almost impossible to believe how all the abuses of state property and how everything and how much the state budget was damaged, how much income it's left, it can probably be measured in millions, maybe even billions, it's not good for a country that's trying to be organized and functional. You told the ministers, at the very beginning in your opening statement that the most beneficial of this law would be units of local self-government. And I think that's good and so be it, and so be it because it has proved that municipalities and cities and counties can be better masters than the state itself. Let's remember when the process there was about 2002, 2003, the decentralisation process started in primary school, high school, fire department, there was a skepticism about how it would work, whether it would work, and eventually it turned out to be a full hit. We also remember there is no long model by which the issue of first-degree construction permits to counties and large cities is left. There's been a skepticism again, and there's been objective problems. They were crossed and eventually, and it turned out to be a very good move not to say a full hit. The decentralisation that has been done so far and what this law proposes is not only good for local self-government units, for the county, it is good for the state as well. Because when something works, it's simple for everyone and good. The debate has been going on for a very long time, all of what I personally considered controversial and wanted to mention in my individual debate colleagues mentioned in their discussions, therefore, my predecessors. Perhaps the only thing that seemed to me that nobody had touched her is a step up that might have been made for official dwellings in smaller towns and smaller municipalities where the need for civil officials for housing is negligible or almost gone. I think it could be given to local self-government units, therefore, to smaller cities and municipalities for use in order to meet some of their needs for social care or whatever. So we're witnessing that a large number of apartments are staring blank, that they're failing, that their value is falling, and eventually they pose a threat and a threat to both neighboring apartments and the building itself and to people's health. So, I'm gonna bring my argument to an end. After all the years of non-transparent management of state property, the public rightly expects the register of state property to be made public and made available, it is also a tendency in European countries to have general availability and unconditional access to registers present. I realized from the bill that it would not be, but here from a brief discussion with the minister he convinced me that transparency in this sense would exist and that the records would be available. I think it's very important, for example. for local self-government units to have insight into state property records. So let me finish. It may be difficult to hear from the opposition representative that some law is good. I think that this law, along with some of its imperfections, is still a good law, and I hope that by the second reading, the Proposer will show good will and respect the concrete and good proposals of the parliamentary deputies that could be heard today during the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67623	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Two replicas. First Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67624	Dear colleagues Jerkovic, if we turn over a little debate this morning, you will see that in this assembly the most and the most heated were those who were either presently or were, or are still mayors or mayors but spread throughout Croatia. They all point out to the great majority always the same problem. Exactly what you said, order must be introduced, it must be known who manages what, and it is precisely the greatest virtue of this law at this moment that needs to be done to make it as good as possible in the second reading. So, what I'm saying is, and you know how it was in the area and the city of Rijeka because you were involved in the functioning and city council down there, how many problems and how much in relations with the state stood simply for the reasons of unresolved property-legal relations because the city of Rijeka couldn't go into some kind of project realization because at that point that property was owned by the state or not at all distributed somewhere. What I have come to the debate, because the introduction of this order, unfortunately, regardless of the good law, of all our good will until the catastre of the entire Republic of Croatia is resolved, while the other laws do not adapt to this Law in order to carry out this one more operationally, there will still be problems. So this is one good foundation on which to build a further strategy in which to put these lands, all that property into operation, but always keeping in mind that new values, the processing of these assets take place right down at the base in those units of local self-government. For that reason, I don't want anyone to misread the well-intentioned hearing of the mayor, the mayor. They spoke not exclusively in the interest of their city, but in the interest of the whole of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67625	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jerkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67626	Thank you very much. The state must indeed be a service to all, to all its citizens and citizens, to all units of local and regional self-government. It must be their service in that sense to make their lives easier. It must help local self-government units to ensure maximum good conditions for this good life where people's real lives happen. So far, we have also had the situation that the state has often braked projects in this context, often hampered the development of a specific city, a particular area, a region, a county consciously or unconsciously completely irrelevant. But we've witnessed these things happen. And hopefully, I think we all here hope that this law just opens up a new chapter, a better functionality, efficiency we've been waiting for for a long time and let it come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67627	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rostice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67628	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I am pleased that you have pointed out this and I agree with you that it is very important that when we put state property into office that we do not look at the local budget as opposed to the state budget as two separate budgets, because, in fact, putting state property into office needs to further strengthen that local budget, the budget of the units of local self-government, because if we strengthen it, it will enable us to implement some other policies at national level because we know that we have recently reduced income tax which essentially reduces the budget of the units of local self-government. But it will ultimately boost the economy and will again strengthen the budget in general in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. public revenues, both locally and at national level. And that is what is very important to strengthen the local budget so that we can reduce such taxes as labour taxes and other taxes, which in fact sometimes block the development of the economy and entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67629	Thank you very much. Reply by Mrs Jerkovic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67630	... Excuse me. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I said that I agree and that it would be better if we had more frequent laws in the assembly that we can agree on without forgetting why we are here and whose well-being we have to work on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67631	I see the Christmas mood continues, we all agree. It's done with the replicas. I didn't see you. You were looking for a replica? Okay. Oh, no, good. No more replicas. Mr. Ivan Šipić has an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here after a full-day debate of many good examples, legislative proposals and certainly what most of us here have had the opportunity to hear is in agreement that this bill is also in the first reading, and I believe that it will be in both the second and the final adoption so achieved one consensus that is needed, which is that it is a step, not a step back. Well, here's a brief review, even though a lot of it's already been said. First, as well as many of my fellow mayors and mayors, I will welcome the provisions of the law which prescribe that the ministry manages other properties whose special law is entrusted to another body if, by means of a spatial plan on these properties, the construction of golf courses, hotels, hotel complexes, campsites and other sports and recreation playgrounds are planned in an open area with accompanying buildings or other similar commercial and other buildings. It is good that the Ministry assumes responsibility for the management and availability of these properties especially for commercial activities. Article 37(2) of the Law provides for the assessment of real estate by court evaluators, we assume, therefore, that it might, and I hear that colleagues have mentioned it many times today and we have commented directly with the minister and discussed it, that it would be good to leave or return already as the tax administration is mentioned. Why would I think that? At least around those properties that are donated to municipalities, cities, counties would be shortened and the procedure cheapened, because so far it's always been to donate real estate and estimate. In paragraph 4, we consider it a good solution to raise power to the minister. In paragraph 6, I find it excellent that the minister always makes a decision on the first purchase, regardless of other considerations. That's good. The same would be good for cities and municipalities and county. That way they wouldn't stop people waiting for city council decisions and congregations. First buyers go everywhere where individuals have properties that are culturally good, which are de facto all old houses like that. Split, Trogir and other cities. Furthermore, when we talk about the availability of property in favour of units of local and regional self-government without compensation, it would certainly be necessary, and in order to avoid interpretations outside the law or supplementary interpretation, certainly this Article 45(3) of the fourth indent of the word ‘implementation of the demographic restoration programme’, add the words ‘for residential zones, family houses, incentive housing, etc.’. I find this extremely important for almost all of our municipalities and cities to enable those who do not have the opportunity to reach their land through their families or those who have moved out that in these areas under favourable conditions they can realise building plots for the construction of family homes and thus we will try to keep the population in the area where they want to live. Of course, this would all be consistent with cities and municipalities in a way that changes and complements spatial plans. In Article 50, it should be welcomed that the Ministry gives prior consent to third parties of public law when applying projects to competitions financed from the European Union funds, which projects are planned on property owned or co-owned by the Republic of Croatia. Unless the granting of consent is based on a specific regulation in the part of the other body or legal person with public authority. In fact, the EU's land-owned projects must be agreed on by the Republic of Croatia. They didn't give it now, so it would often be late for competitions. It is certainly necessary to welcome this proposal within the law. It should also be commended for Article 69, which provides that the properties registered in land books as property of the Republic of Croatia and used on 1 January 2017 as schools, homes of health, hospitals and other institutions which are the founders of units of local and regional self-government and used for educational and health purposes, as well as cemeteries, morgues, monuments, parks, playgrounds, sports and recreation facilities, sports playgrounds, social homes, firehouses and other foundations of this law shall be entered in the ownership of units of local self-government in which they are located, i.e. owned by institutions that use or manage them. Furthermore, that units of local and regional self-government are obliged until 31 December 2018 to submit a request to the Ministry for the issue of a document similar to that of the registration of ownership rights over those properties, and that the Ministry will issue a valid certificate for the registration of ownership rights on those properties to the unit of local and regional self-government in accordance with the timely requirements submitted. Here you should note that you will need to do a lot of elaborates by then which requires both costs and money and time. That maybe we should consider the possibility of extending that deadline. But I know well that the Ministry has already extended that deadline and in this proposal this proposal is available from our perspective of local self-government it is tangible, but it can cause a lot of problems. All in all this proposal of the law as I said in the introduction and I will complete it step forward for units of local self-government and I believe that the Ministry and Minister with all their services and state secretaries who have assisted him and who have been working on this bill for months with all these public debates being conducted that in the second reading, maybe another good proposal will come out, and all of them in the first row of the people on the ground. And on the ground are the leaders of local units, and these are the mayors, the mayors, the mayors of those who are directly responsible for the operation, and I would say to the states, because we in this hierarchy are the rule of executive authorities under the government in the executive body, therefore, the leaders of local self-government, who are the most responsible and co-responsible for creating the lives of individual communities. And in that spirit, it is certainly nice to hear that the opposition also has no major objection to this bill, however, and in these constructive discussions we have heard both how and how interesting proposals. Thank you very much, and I welcome this bill anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67633	Thank you, too. You still have one replica, Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67634	Thank you, Vice President. Well, this isn't really a replica, it's just that here's the answer to your colleagues and support for everything you've said, but not you, but the other leaders of the local self-government unit who know the essence of our problems. But also to support the minister and his associates that this law that is written, which is lacking, we may give suggestions to see what, which would make this law even better. But support to all those who want to implement this law. I said at first that perhaps even the biggest problem in all of this was the people who work in the ministry. The minister has the best intentions and has made one solid law. The secretary of state is probably the same, but those people who are at lower levels from my experience are the problem, the problem and it doesn't work out. The most important thing for us is that the system works, that the law is really being implemented. That's the most important thing, but if it doesn't, then we get these laws or similar laws, and we keep saying that, every law is better. However, the fact that the system is not working. That's what I'm trying to say. Let's get this law in line with the possibilities and the people who work at the ministry. That's the most important thing, and then we'll all be satisfied, especially us leaders who know what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67635	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67636	Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to take a short look at this fellow of yours. So I'm sure the Minister and the Secretary of State are in this for the first time, when I talk about this law, we felt this contact between the local community and those most in charge of managing and ruling state property. So here you can see that we who came from the field came to both the minister and the secretary of state that they understood in fact a good part of the problem that had plagued our local leaders, but of course the minister and the administration, the Ministry of Administration is not only focused on the heads and the cities and municipalities, but the entire leprosy is of these state institutions. Therefore, we will understand if everything was not as we imagined in this regard the responsibility of both the minister and the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67637	Thank you. Next individual debate, Mrs. Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67638	Thank you, Vice President. When the independent Ministry of State Assets and the different management of state property began to discuss, skeptics also appeared, and somehow everyone feared the law, they had already had prejudice. And this morning, when the debate started, I didn't expect and somehow all of them, if I may put it like that, that the minister would essentially charm the opposition and position, that somehow everyone would look favorably at this law and that some of those skeptics that appear would even turn away in today's debate. However, I think you will only convince these commissioners with good and quick implementation of this law. But there's a lot left in sublaws and procedures that go into contact with these officers and tenants every day. And that's what this law is going to have to prove itself in and show what they're all in, and no matter what they've had, they've had these positive things. But simply some of the provisions of these previous acts or laws were not implemented in due time and quickly enough, there was no human capacity for the same. You said that you had implemented the most serious procedure before this law came to the Croatian Parliament, that you were talking to the academic community, the DORH, the trade unions, and that's very important. Of course, every next phase in the implementation and adoption of this law will also require the most serious procedure. And the first thing you've detected at the beginning is that even citizens know what it is the Ministry of State Property and what it's state-owned property, that it's known that they're not foreign reserves, that they're not forests and water. And it is very important that citizens simply know what is being managed by the Ministry of State Property, because I recently saw that the minister is also getting questions about supervision in municipal, municipal and city enterprises, about such questions to answer. And that's what's important, but still when we see that it's called something and in its name it's carrying state property, of course, that every notion looks wider, and that's something I see as a problem on the ground. It's good that you've brought these deadlines for strategic and planning documents, and it's good that they're ambitious and I believe and I hope you'll respect them. It is good that this commission has been abolished which has not been effective and which are for members of the board of directors, means certain ministers, not deputy ministers so far. When anyone who works with some infrastructure and who makes decisions, and that's a good colleague Hrg said they'll reward him for his life's work or they'll want to put that person in jail, simply anyone who's more serious about infrastructure makes some decisions, sells property or puts state property into operation is being challenged and very different attitudes, and it's just hard to control. However, when we see that many properties owned by the Republic of Croatia on 1 January which are in the nature of the school, health homes, hospitals and other institutions are not owned by units of local self-government, we see that all policies have been ineffective so far. And the question is whether it is done now when the cost of legalising such objects or parts of such objects or properties on state-owned properties cannot yet be avoided by the state. Whether such property is now placed on units of local self-government, and what we will appreciate this law is precisely that state property is given to build such buildings on them, i.e. in some way transfer or sell to units of local self-government. And I'd also like to point out the sub-bibe situation, which means that there are land that isn't on the marine good, but often on them, there are frequent demands that some of the facilities be built in a catering and similar manner, and the city has no intention of building them. As far as I know, and as far as I can see from the documents and requests they sent to the Ministry of State Property at the time and the previous DUDI allowed, or gave such land to the management of the city or provided some form of transfer of ownership only in case of construction of some kind of infrastructure. And in such cases, no infrastructure is built, but simply such land stands and has interest in carrying out economic activities, which are not closely related to any physical infrastructure that would be built on such land. Well, there you go. And if those problems were to be considered until the second reading, we could get rid of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67639	Thank you, too. And the last speaker, Mr. Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67640	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, I have told the great majority in my presentation, i.e. seeing this law through the replicas of certain parliamentary colleagues. I personally think, Minister, that every law is good when it's passed as new and if it brings something new and if it's a step forward. But I'm not suggesting that this law is truly revolutionary, as regards the relationship between the local self-government units and the Ministry of State Property. They solve those crucial things, it's nice to see that you give us the right to manage real estates in the form of morgues, cemeteries, parks, but that's not what brings a new job and that's not what makes the demographic survival of people in our areas. You prepared it for 10 months, you said that you adopted virtually all objections by units of local self-government which we see is not an association of cities, which I actively participate in the work of the association, has ceased 13 remarks, those as such have not been adopted. Indeed, it would be nice if we saw in another reading of this law that certain comments were adopted. The basic problem that arises for us, for all units of local self-government and I see some colleagues have made it clear, today in the talks, they relate to the construction area covering the spatial plans of local self-government units and without giving us the land that was located, and not built, according to the scope of the construction lines until '91. More specifically, by July 24, '91. We can't talk about solving our problems. And that's what we have the right to do, because when we sum up, the municipalities, the cities and the county were authorized to take possession of the property that was within the borders of the construction areas of the municipality or of the city on 24 July 1991. On that date, the Law on Agricultural Land entered into force, where it clearly distinguishes that the agricultural land ex-lega belongs to the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, Administration, Municipalities, Cities and County, established by the Law on Areas of Countys, Cities and Municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, were obliged to assume then real estate, movables, financial resources, and the rights and obligations of so far-time municipalities, whose legal sequences were within 6 months, from the day of the establishment of the representative bodies of those units, i.e., by 31 March 1994 at the latest, those cities and municipalities that did so, today, have no problems, those who did not do so, have problems today. Because we can't talk about the development of a city, strategy and development, if really we, with our space in terms of construction lines, don't manage. I will not speak beyond 1991 of other spatial plans, I will focus only on that small area, but it is an area of the heart of the development of all cities and municipalities. In accordance with this, I am disturbing that we will have a very big problem, not us units of local self-government, but all of our citizens, or citizens of the Republic of Croatia, have said this in a single replica, I will now repeat in the debate, based on Article. 41st paragraph, which states, if it is a person who is in the process of legalising an illegally constructed facility, from the competent authority, has come up with solutions on the state of play, and has built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and on the property in question, determined the scope of the building particle, that person may be sold the land, which has been identified as a coverage of the building particle. What does that mean in practice? In particular, in the area of Dalmatia, where we have not solved property legal relations, i.e., many people, have built their facilities over grandfatherland, cash, but in the land it is registered to the Republic of Croatia. People have legalized their facilities, are now in the process of forming construction plots, but the situation will happen, that they will have to buy it from the Ministry of State Property, according to what's going on. By any chance, it in my previous paragraph, i.e. the idea that this land belonged to units of local self-government, each unit of local self-government to its representative body, the municipal city council, can make a decision on the availability of real estate and can significantly regulate this relationship differently. This is how he believes that this will not be the case, that practically people will have to pay very large fees when forming their building plots. So, in my opinion, first of all, in the second reading, we should conclude with all representatives of local self-government units, with the association of cities, that this law would be revolutionary, that it would solve all our problems, because I say, from cemeteries, from morgues, from parks, it doesn't live. I am sorry that the isolated construction areas, in which golf courses, hotel accommodation and others can be built, are not yet given in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, and we all know that these facilities must be built by road, and we know that the Law on Roads is the jurisdiction of local self-government units, which means that, based on all the infrastructure, to future content, a future investor will have to build a unit of local self-government, on my own cost, which I really think is unwarranted. I see that in the bill, you said that we can approximately expect a billion and 400 million kunas of income, I personally think, that it would be very good for these revenues to be intended for some part, for new geodetic measurements, for new cadastrian municipalities throughout Croatia, because we currently have a completely unsettled situation, above all in Dalmatia and other parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67641	Thank you, too. No replicas, I would ask Mr. Maric, the minister, to address the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. I have to say right now, this is not a proposal for a law on the financing of units of local self-government, this is a proposal for a State Property Management Act. The existing Law on State Property Management does not recognise the interests of local self-government units at all. This new law, however, recognizes that we should all be aware. I don't think it's the kind of argument I'm having that's what my lawyer said, because they usually object to me for being too serious. I hope they've decided the arguments. And I thank this occasion all of you who are here now, who are taking part in the debate and those who have participated in the debate. And a little apology, that sometimes I had to be absent during the debate, but because of the nature of the job. With minimal deviations, but really minimal deviations, which are not common, because they are derogations in Parliament in the Croatian Parliament, much greater, when it comes to other laws, this debate has shown that it does not tolerate estradisation or politicisation and that it has been quite targeted, exclusively to be as high-quality as possible. So I thank all of you who participated in the debate. We have a personal understanding for every statement of opinion. And only arguments will be a provision of what the law will look like on second reading. This law, I said, is not a law of encrypted intent. And there's not a single article behind it. If there is, we'll see tomorrow when we take off the phonograms and when we've examined everything, then we'll clear it up. A few points to what was most important, which was the most highlighted and most often discussed, what can I say, freely, to go into the sphere part of the essradisation of these famous 7.5 million kuna decisions, and we heard here and the proposal that the minister should decide up to 40 million kunas of decision-making. If we want to paralyze the system, then we can reduce that limit. I don't need that limit at all, that I have the right to push more. It's going to be a paralyzed system, I'm saying it from experience, and then the commission should come back to decide these things. But we all agreed here that the commission shouldn't. But as my colleague Bulj, he listed the affairs here, I'm not afraid of the affair. I know how I work, I know what I do and I do it responsibly, professionally ethically and in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm not afraid of any affair. I don't have to talk to customers, or talk to them. It's all the basis of a public tender. And whoever best offers that, that's gonna be a partner of the Ministry of State Property. And let the buyers report to the competition, and let me not be sought, if necessary. Here, we had a recent tender for four hotel companies, so let little insight into what kind of competition it was, what was sought, as none had ever been in the history of modern Croatia, and therefore we have offers, bindingly as we had, but we have also asked for the guarantee of the first-class bank to be offered for all. Suggestion to be in art. In 69, the ex-lege, giving local self-government units and sports facilities, there's no need, because they're already in place, but someone didn't get a good look at it. Most of the attention was caused by an article. 68th for those properties, i.e. land, which the unit of local self-government had allocated, accused, sold, and later turned out to be the owner of the Republic of Croatia, and in good faith, the trust of the land book was the unit of local self-government, municipality and city, treated as its own, because it was owned. And the fee provided for by this law in 20 years is the biggest rock of encouragement, I think in the debate of this serious rock of encouragement, this whole other bit still for one level unserious. I don't, we're gonna take this very seriously, and I'm personally inclined to decide that the local self-government unit doesn't bear any compensation for it. But we'll have to bear in mind that there have been criminal proceedings in some of these cases. Imagine now, in such procedures, the Republic of Croatia acts and forgives these debts. Now, we're going to have to think very carefully about how this legal framework, where criminal proceedings have been found to have been misused, that possibility is certainly excluded. But in other cases, I will personally try to make it an integral part of the legal proposal in the second reading. And to help the team financially, that is, do not burden the financial units of local self-government. As for housing and demographic restoration, I give absolute support to that. If not yet clearly indicated, we will find and extend the legal framework, because it is a very important segment of the Ministry of State Property, will give its contribution not as much as it can but a maximum contribution to finding a solution to housing especially on these parts that are very endangered. I have to do it again because I heard it now, and in the last one, it's not a secret register, it's public. But I'm afraid some people don't understand what it means to be not a public register. That means when someone prints a document from that register, that document has no importance of a public document like when you click on a catastran, this is not a public document. Everyone has insight into the public register, but what print doesn't have the power of a public document, that's what it is, in that sense, is not a public register. Any law should be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people. It's the foundation of every law should be, not some group or some. There's been a little guidance that this is only going in one narrow direction. But this law is exclusively in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people. But most of the benefits from its application will be local self-government units. So when it comes to the fact that the building land that we say will be a building plot owned by the Republic of Croatia is located in the area of a municipality. Now all the municipalities would be the happiest if it were theirs. But if that property is in office based on, say, a public tender is being sold to an investor. This goes to the state budget, reduces public debt. The cost of construction goes to local self-government units, is being employed on the project by people in the local self-government units, contributions, taxes, and everything else are being paid. Therefore, it should be looked at as a whole, which is most important not from one angle but from a broader point of view. Therefore, the activation of state assets will most reflect on the state budget and on the budget of the units of local self-government. And that's unequivocal. The Ministry of State Property is by realising one such sale for the first time in history has directly since the sale of state property reduced the public debt of the Republic of Croatia. And that's the aim of the Ministry of State Property. Property is sacred and it is good that it is sacred, but private property is sacred to each of us. But even the state can't be any less sacred. But so far, that's not how it's been. He was working on an almost perfect kidnapping system. You saw even the public attacks of media editors on me when I launched a procedure for evicting an illegal wrongful house user worth 900 thousand euros in Samobor by calling it all kinds of epithets because I'm doing my job. Imagine how much I've made an enemy just because of that one cottage, and it's started and there will be 3,000 proceedings against the lawless and illegal owners. Of course, I also expect to know what awaits me, but it is not my job as Minister to meet these kidnappers and lawless users and those who mock the Republic of Croatia, but to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Only because of one lease contract that had one ministry where we reduced 4 million kunas that the Republic of Croatia paid less than 4 million kuna annually, and we totaled 30 million kunas in last year. There have been hundreds of attempts not to cut that lease. Imagine, then, how much it is, what kind of system it is set up in Croatia. Croatia's property experience has been defeated with state property has been defeated. In the 20th century, the seized property was taken from Communism, and later it was taken from us in front of our eyes. And always the same. This process has been metastasized, but this law will be a tool for although it is very difficult to deal with metastases, but it will be a tool to remove these metastases. I thank everyone once again for the interest, the debate, the attention you've given when it comes to this bill. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67643	Thank you, too. But you're not done yet. You have three replicas. First Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67644	Dear Minister, at the beginning of my presentation, I must admit that I was a little surprised by your findings when you said that you were warning us that this was not the Law on the financing of local self-government units. That's what you said and we're very aware of it. And I've been listening very carefully all day. I didn't realize at any point that either of us who discussed this law thought in such a way that this law should be financed by local self-government units. But you will agree with me that projects since the construction of municipal infrastructure, social infrastructure, the development of the economy are done by units of local self-government. From the very resolution of property-legal relations to the project task, project solution, location permits, building permits to move towards the realization of any project is done down at the base. 99% of all investments are made by local self-government units and cities and municipalities. This whole debate goes only in this direction, and there are hundreds of examples that we can give you, that what should be done now finally by your ministry when it's organized unlike the previous state offices where we had such practice that to solve the least problems, we needed not months but years to solve any particles. And I still have a request in my town four, five years ago for certain particles, so in Bakr, so in Rijeka, so I believe throughout Croatia, I believe in Metkovic and in whatever city in the Republic of Croatia. And the question arises whether your ministry will operationally do all that power and in that part I congratulate you on what you have taken over on your back. And from this side, as we have seen in today's debate, and from the opposition and from us you will have full support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67645	Mr. Claric, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67646	Thank you very much. Representative Klaric, at the end of the debate all day long, I guess because they're complaining that I'm too serious let me have a little humor too. Why did I say that this reminds me, I must remind myself that it is not the Law on the financing of units of local self-government because a large part of the debate was brought about in relation to units of local self-government, and let's say no one mentioned, but no one has mentioned all day that this law solves something that no one has touched for 20 years and has not been resolved, and this is an unrated property in the process of conversion and privatisation. Maybe I was out. Thank you. And stock payments, one-time payments. The debate came down mainly because the interest of local self-government units is the biggest here, but there are these laws and other articles that solve others, so that's why I mentioned it. As for operational and operation and composition of state assets, it works according to its capacities, I think it is more operational than it was and it will be more operational and equipped every day. And I'm sure there's no change overnight, but it's going to be a system that's going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67647	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67648	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in order for this law to be more operational and useful, I have pointed out two things in my replicas, but I want to do it now after your closing statement again. Since this is the State Property Management Act, unfortunately Chapter 5 refers exclusively to the sale of state property and I think the key thing that must stand in this law, which is the Ministry of State Assets and Resort Ministry's relationship with corporate governance in both minority and minority ownership, is the best example now of Đura Djakovic. It's simply one state body, whether it's the Ministry of Economy or it's the Ministry of State Property, that has to make a clear decision about what with this company and what is the future of the HEP tomorrow or something else. I believe that in three, four, five articles here following this Article 35, the management of state property should be defined and what I have said in Article 69, because it is the number of thousand requests that states in paragraph 2. "The unit of local and regional (regional) self-government is required until 31 December 2008 to submit a request to the ministry." I think that at the end of this paragraph 2, you would have to say that the ministry will regulate how these requirements are filed, that these are unified requirements and that this can be dealt with in a uniform manner. If you don't do it with the rule book, believe me, Minister, you'll have chaos. Good wishes will turn into hell, as the road to hell is often paved with this. So, just until the second reading, add that you will regulate it by regulation to prescribe a form, and then the Government makes a decision to give you practical authority because you can do it. Because in order to change something in land books, you have to specify cadastral particles and everything else. It's a little time I don't get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67649	Thank you. Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67650	Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker. It's a little time, but you've said enough. This Regulation notice is excellent, we will certainly install it, it is a good observation for the reporting of companies and for the management of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia that are on the list of special interests. There must be co-operation between the Resort Ministry and the Ministry of State Property, and that will be further defined through chapter 17 of Article 9. And for those companies with less than 50% stakes, we have envisaged stronger cooperation right through the new composition of the CERP Governance Council, where the CERP Management Council will now be sitting and being an integral part of ministers, not deputies and state secretaries where it will be mandatory and resolute Minister, and a new... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67651	I would ask you to have such a conversation, please such a conversation not here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67652	We've memorized everything you suggested.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67653	Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67654	Thank you very much. Well, you said, among other things, that the defeated relationship with the property has been so far, and that we will all agree, according to all forms of property, and therefore I very much expect from this law, very much from your ministry and you personally. But I would say here, another sentence about our greatest wealth, about our greatest good, and that's maritime good. Although at the very beginning you said it wasn't in your domain, given that, however, we now have a special ministry, and we know that there lies great money, great value, great potential, so I appeal to you to do the same thing on your part, as much as you can so that you can put it all in quality function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67655	Mr. Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67656	Thank you very much, Agent Yurichev. This part of the marine good you've noticed well. Personally, I do not think it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Property, that Croatia, necessarily, needs an urgent new Law on Maritime Goods, which will define, who will manage, more clearly define who will manage the state goods. Part of the maritime well-being is now managed by the units, i.e. the unit of the district self-government, so I'm not sure in some parts of the local self-government units, that it's managed in the best possible way. Well, it's no argument that nothing is given to local self-government units, but it's not exactly an argument that everything from the Republic of Croatia is transferred to local self-government units because of the avoidance of affairs. Well, let's remember we're having an affair when it comes to maritime well-being. But the affairs are not determined for the level of power, but for the way in which you act in power. And I agree that the maritime well-being must be defined legally differently. And I wouldn't mind the management of maritime good being in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Property, but it's regulated by other laws and resolutions of the ministry right now for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67657	Okay, thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister and Associates and Associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67658	Proposal for a law on state property management, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 256. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for a law on state property management is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 31 abstentions and 13 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67659	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Confirmation Act, amending and supplementing texts and supplements, except for the third and fourth protocols on heavy metals from 1998 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 247 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 247 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure, unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the proposaler's representative like to give an additional opinion? With us is Mr Mario Šiljeg, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law on Confirmation, the Protocol on Heavy Metals with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979, became a party to the 2007 Protocol. The aim of this Protocol is to reduce and monitor lead emissions, cadmium and live in the air as harmful heavy metals, which are subject to far-reaching atmospheric transfer due to additional protection of human health and the environment. The Protocol requires that the parties reduce their total annual emissions of lead cadmium and live at the level of emissions from 1990. The Protocol shall require the parties to apply the best available techniques for certain categories of sources and missions and establish the emission limit values applicable to certain, main, fixed sources. In addition, the parties must make and maintain budgets, i.e. inventory emissions for lead, cadmium and mercury. Based on the EU's proposal, 2009 to further limit and bring heavy metal emissions into the environment, negotiations have been opened, for reviewing the text of the Protocol and its annexes. The negotiations resulted in a decision on amendments and amendments to the text and the addition, with the exception of Annexes 3 and 7 to the '98 heavy metals Protocol. at a regular 31st session of the Executive Body of the Convention in Geneva. The Parties shall be required to confirm the amendments and additions in question in order to take effect. The amended Protocol prescribes stricter emission limit values for dust, i.e. particles, from certain categories, major stationary or fixed sources. The amendments also facilitate the implementation of the protocol for new parties, i.e., certain flexibility, for those parties that are yet to access the Protocol, a period of 31.12.2019 with the aim of increasing the number of parties to the Protocol. The relevant national legislation of Croatia, which is in force, is already in line with the amendments and amendments to the protocol. This law confirms the amendments and amendments to the Protocol, in order to make their provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and to speed up the process of entry into force of the Protocol and at international level. The entry into force of the Protocol will allow for the ultimate objective and reduce adverse effects, on health and the environment, both in the Republic of Croatia and in the entire environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67661	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Slaven Dobrović reported for the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, independent lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67662	Thank you very much to the esteemed Vice-President of the Parliament, I also welcome the presidents of the ministry, the Secretary of State, the assistants and associates. I welcome both all my colleagues and fellow MPs. So here we are on the agenda of the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination. Actually, it's working in English... and in fact, you should consider whether to put the correct name, because in Croatian we use pollution and pollution, so that pollution corresponds to the pollutation, and contamination, or contamination, would be translated with pollution. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I think we should see if that's some kind of problem, but I think we need to take care of the language. Okay, so we heard this is about a protocol that deals with heavy metals, and it's about cadmium, lead, and it lives. So it's very easy to migrate metals, and that's why they're talking about long-range cross-border transport, because they're being broadcast in one place and they're being scattered all over the globe. And why do we know that this is happening because we can look at the pollution records, like the contents of certain metals in the marine environment, say in the sea itself, in the sediment and in the tissues of living organisms. And let's see, in whale tissue, the concentrations live between five to ten milligrams per kilogram. So that's five to ten millionths of which is a lot. So there is definitely a problem and this is actually the way the International Community is trying to solve the problem. Of course, these devastating data in today's world, where we know what news is dominated by few who are actually excited. But things are more than serious, and I think we should do everything possible to take serious steps, to get these problems touched. Which are the cause, so these shows. So it's about some industrial processes and where it insists on introducing new technologies that don't use certain substances that were, for example, a living, well-known catalyst, so we also have in the chlorine industry insisting on the introduction of new non-use procedures, it doesn't use mercury. However, what I would like to mention here is that the significant sources of these metals are certainly bars of various, furnaces, thermal power plants and ultimately waste burning plants. So, keeping these metals once they're in the smoke gases is an extremely demanding thing. Therefore, technology and technical solutions of prices testify, and ultimately the efficiency, i.e. the impact of reducing these metals through various procedures. And in the end, we have quite high concentrations that are allowed. So maximum concentrations are always the result of possible. So that's one compromise, so 50 micrograms live per cubic meter of smoke gases. Someone can say so little that it's very little. However, when multiplied by millions of cubic smoke gases, it is clear that quite high concentrations, or high emissions, occur very quickly. So let's just say I'm going to look back at the junkyards. So from the relevant literature, which deals with the review of this segment, so the global impact of waste burning is that for total global emissions, so these heavy metals are 32% of the burden, i.e. responsibility belongs to the combustion plant. For lead it's 20%, so a fifth of everyone's shows. It comes from a scrapyard, or 9% for cadmium. So what's the solution? Of course, it can be applied to tightening regulations and looking for more efficient removal of these metals, which I have already said is not easy. In fact, it's much simpler to change concepts and solutions, so the idea of my exposure is to point out that these solutions actually encourage action in other fields. Here's the waste fuel that's listed as a new solution where mechanical-biological processing is produced by waste. You know that in Croatia we have two such centres built, that according to the 2007 plan, there should have been 20 first, so I don't know how to reduce to 10, 13 etc. The total quantities of fuel produced from waste were planned at almost a million tonnes, almost a million tonnes, for example. If we look at the allowed concentrations of these metals in the waste fuel, we will see that we allow even over 1 milligram per kilogram live, or over 110 milligrams of lead per kilogram of RDF, or fuel from waste, about 5 mm of cadmium. When it is burned, especially alive is very difficult to stop, so these are very demanding processes. We can count on most of this to come out through the chimney, so that some 100,000 tonnes per year can easily get to the bill to broadcast only in Croatia, so with 100 thousand tons of burned RDF 100 kilos live per year, 11000 kilograms of lead and 500 kilograms of cadmium. So these are very high figures especially for the living. We need to know that the total amount of live consumed annually in the economy, so just over 5,000 tons. So these are high concentrations, alive which is an abiotic element, which we don't want as a show because it really creates a lot of environmental problems, we're importing alive because without living we can't, so somewhere it's subsidized as thermometers, somewhere it's still needed. So let's say a modern waste management system that goes after the development of separate collection systems, that recycling courtyards live where citizens bring their troubled waste, fluo tubes, electronics and all that contains alive, enables this living, at the end of the day, with some of course and the cost to be recycled and returned to the economy. This is possible when it is collected separately, and when everything breaks and gets into that bunker from the waste management center, you can go to Marinščina and see what it looks like, then eventually it reaches the material, part of it is broadcast naturally from the bunker to the environment and part through that famous RDF. So, here I will end up with one appeal not to understand the adoption of this law as a finished story, we all wrote that the obligations that stand here relate to many policies and that the time has come to be especially in the environment because the problems are complex, that they are also solved complexly, that they are not viewed as individual islands, but one system and transport and energy and waste management are all segments that allow for more successful resolution of the obligations arising from this law because, of course, one of the obligations of introducing the balance sheeting or making inventory and emission records. Of course, we will support this law and we also support all other activities in meeting the objectives and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67663	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67664	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, before us is the law with which we actually adopt the amendments and additions to the protocol on heavy metals, and next to it comes the 1979 Convention on Long-range cross-border air pollution. But we as a state have already been a party to this protocol since 2007, and here it is a short law of several articles where we are actually adopting the text of amendments and amendments to the protocol. The objective of these amendments is to facilitate countries that are not parties to the Protocol, to facilitate access to the Protocol and to make it more flexible for them and to enable all those parties in the contract to develop the best available techniques in order to make it possible to reduce the quantities of lead, cadmium and living in the air surrounding us. Since the protocol says that lead, cadmium and living consciousness should be leveled in 1990, then I went to see what it looked like in the Republic of Croatia. I found an air quality assessment on the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the period from 1999 to 2010, i.e. the last year was covered in 2012. And then we can see in that assessment of air quality in the region of the Republic of Croatia precisely for that period that the amounts of lead, cadmium and mercury actually decreased dramatically, so in the case of lead it looks about 10 times in those 10 years, while living and cadmium is about twice. The aim of these changes was, of course, to gradually eliminate gasoline with lead content, which we in some way in the Republic of Croatia have already done and reduce the concentrations of live in alkaline batteries. These recent changes were actually launched in 2009 on the EU proposal and the decision was made in 2012 and now with last year, i.e. with October last year of 34 parties that exist in the protocol of only 10 have so far accepted these amendments and additions. And in order for these amendments and additions to take effect, it is necessary to accept 2/3 of the parties. The secretary of state has already said that our national legislation has practically adopted and is fully in line with the amendments and additions to this Protocol. Therefore, we fully aim to adopt this Protocol as soon as possible, or to amend and supplement the Protocol, and to increase that number of parties that have accepted it in order to get to those two-thirds of the parties in the contract as soon as possible and to make it easier for those who wish to join the Protocol to also approach them in order to lead to their implementation in other countries in the environment, and the provisions define and monitor, measure and everything else which, of course, has a reduction in these emissions and in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Of course we as a club will accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67665	I thank my colleague Miri Totgergeli. We've got a line for our esteemed colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67666	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm interested in a colleague, I see that you've professionally explained this by a fellow Secretary of the Ministry, but we do have a dump that will be in Lečevica for which the ministry stands, where the waste fuel will be produced in large quantities of food, because of the way it is collected, instead of fighting for the disposal of this waste, means immediately collecting to separate the waste we will essentially create in an oasis of karst area where Jadro and Split are already at risk, we see what it is like to have no drinking water, we will endanger both the air and the karst climate. Well, I don't know if this is all about Jadro and Cetina, and of course I expect this to end in the final speech from my colleagues, because it's very important to the area where drinking water is, is it serious to talk about Lečevica, not only in a way to meet the current needs but to really protect that area because we can do more damage than we are aware of, and that is to endanger drinking water throughout Dalmatia, and we know what would represent not only for Split but for the whole of Dalmatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67667	I thank Mr. Bull for the replica. My colleague Totgergeli's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67668	Well, my colleague Bulj, I'm sure you know the space of your county much better and the constituency you come from, but I know it much less, but I know my space better and the constituency I come from. However, environmental and water protection and disposal of waste are all in the same ministry and, of course, the people who work there must take care simultaneously as they take care of the waste and drinking water and everything else. So I think the ministry will find a way to solve and dispose of waste for your area without jeopardizing drinking water in your area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67669	I thank my colleague Totgergeli for his reply. We have the final word, Secretary of State, dear colleague Mario Shiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67670	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. First of all, I want to thank the representatives of the clubs who discussed the text that lies ahead of you. The truth is what counterpart Dobrovic said, so the Croatian legislation is already in line with the new limit values, they are a reduction from old values, let's say, specifically when we talk about particles from 10 to five milligrams per metre cubic during the production in industrial plants or in the burning of waste means... the procedures that were before 10 to 25, are now 10 milligrams per meter cubic, and the main benefit of this text of the bill is that it will be easier to allow the countries around Croatia to access this protocol and thus contribute to a better overall environmental protection, or in a specific case of air as environmental constituents. As far as the Waste Management Centre is concerned, I think that my colleague Totgergeli has noticed very well, so what I can say for the Waste Management Centre in Lečevica is that it is adapted to its facilities to the new Directives of 50% waste separation means that the future waste management centre has been drastically reduced. And it is an obligation for all of us to keep the best available techniques for the construction of this centre, its release and its work, which are prescribed European maximum protection and environmental emission restrictions. I am obliged to say one more thing, that the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives has arrived for this bill, namely the nomotechnical amendment where only in Article 1 the date of adoption of the Protocol from 18.12.2009 to 13/12/2012 is amended and that amendment is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67671	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Shileg. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67672	Secretary of State. I'm not happy with the answer, I'm not happy that this is happening in that area. The fact that it is unfortunate that the people must fight the Ministry of Environment in the protection of the environment. Logic would say the Ministry of Environment should protect the environment. You refer to the directives, it's the easiest to rewrite, every day we listen to them a lot, and... So much for your convincing speech that the Waste Management Centre in Lečevica will preserve drinking water and no harm will be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So much law here we've rewritten and written, a directive on a daily basis that seems to be the most developed state in the world to apply. Not in use. Mafia wastes very easily, money is easily spent by the state. So I'm even thinking about the manager of the dump upstairs of this Lejevica Waste Management Center has been getting paid for years. Do you know how many worse pits are connected, the speleologists proved directly to the water. Directly connected to the water. This is a mistake. Nature isn't ours. We've only borrowed it from future generations and not enough of these words of yours. This is where they'll be put off, this is where they'll be treated in the largest and most endangered area of drinking water. You are in charge of protecting the environment and paying the Croatian people to protect the environment. And therefore, I am dissatisfied with this answer of yours, because your responsibility is not enough in words and regulations. There are other ways to use them in the world. Unfortunately, obviously the waste mob has more influence on the Ministry of the Environment than we can imagine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67673	I'd like to thank my colleague Bull for his replica. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67674	Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments and additions to texts and additions other than the third and seventh Protocol on Heavy Metals from 1998 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 247. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the debate, the proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the club of representatives and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements to the Text and Supplements, except for the Third and seventh Protocol on Heavy Metals of 1998, with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979. Please, let's vote. I find that most 119 votes in favour and 3 abstentions have been passed by that law together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67675	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of amendments and additions to texts and annexes I, II, III, IV, VI. and VIII. Protocol on persistent organic pollutants from 1998 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and amendments and additions to Appendix I and II. Protocol on persistent organic pollutants from 1998 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? Here is State Secretary from the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Mario Šiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Therefore, the Law confirming the Protocol on the existence of organic pollutants under the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of '79. The Republic of Croatia became a party to the 2007 Protocol. The existence of organic pollutants are substances that possess toxic properties, are resistant to decommissioning, remain in the environment for a long time, bioaccumulated and transferred to large distances. Therefore, these substances pose a danger to human health and the environment. The Protocol aims to monitor, reduce or remove persistent organic pollutants. The Protocol requires the parties to abolish, or restrict the production and use of certain permanent organic pollutants. It is also expected to apply the best available techniques to reduce and release emissions and respect the prescribed emission limit values in the air. The parties have an obligation to make emissions inventory for certain substances, with a reduction in emissions emissions to 1990 levels. The initial protocol concerned substances representing mainly pesticides and those resulting from industrial production processes. The most famous is certainly DDT or dichlor diphenyl trichloro ethane and dioxins and furans. Based on the EU's 2007 proposal, it has joined the opening of negotiations for the revision of the text of the Protocol and its annexes. The objective of amending and supplementing the text of the Protocol was to further limit the use of persistent organic pollutants and facilitate the accession of parties with economies in the transition protocol. The negotiations resulted in decisions amending and supplementing the texts of the Protocol. The Parties shall be required to confirm the amendments and additions in question in order to take effect. The amended protocol includes additional substances representing mainly industrial chemicals such as sulphants, paraffins, naphthalenes, etc. The existing requirements for already included substances are amended, the emission limit values for dioxin emissions and furans from certain waste burners are prescribed, and from the sintering and steel production plant. In addition to the protocol set out above, as amended, certain flexibility is allowed to facilitate the accession of the country's transition economy protocol with a view to increasing the number of parties to the Protocol. The relevant national legislation of Croatia, which is in force, is already in line with the amendments and additions to this Protocol. This law confirms the amendments and amendments to the Protocol in order to make their provisions part of the internal and legal order of the Republic of Croatia with a view to speeding up the entry into force of the Protocol and at international level. The entry into force of the Protocol will allow for the ultimate objective and reduce adverse effects on health and the environment both in the Republic of Croatia and in all countries in the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67677	I would like to thank Secretary of State Shileg for this explanation of the bill. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67678	This protocol is well written and it's nice to hear from your mouth that we need to protect the air and reduce the emission of toxic substances to the air. But as you're going to explain, for example, here's because we're referring to this protocol that was called to air protection in Lower Lomnica. Asphaltic base for the whole of Novi Zagreb, Velika Gorica, about 300 meters, was allowed. The school is 200 meters, home of health 100 meters. How will you explain this Protocol to these people? Asphalt base in the srid of a populated place which, here are the people protesting. Even the mayor of Velika Gorica is a parliamentary representative. I didn't hear him say one name except in the election campaign he promised people he'd protect them from these harmful substances. A number of OPGs are around, water, OPGs, people dealing with agriculture, a huge asphalt base is working in the middle of a populated place. What does this awesome protocol mean? Nicely read here, you're beautifully dressed, bright lights, lies on the ground, deception to the people of Lower Lomnica doesn't mean anything at all if it doesn't apply, application is important. I believe you have good faith and that you will stop these harmful projects. In reality, you represent the Ministry of Environment, so don't be the main environmental polluter. Or change his name to the Ministry of Environmental Contaminants. You take care of the environment so much, in reality. And these protocols, the European directives that deliver well, just don't apply. That's the problem. Apply this in reality. Here at Lower Lomnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67679	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67680	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome again the representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So this protocol, based on the same convention, therefore on far-reaching air pollution, does not apply to persistent organic polluters, or polluting them, so as to suggest that this is also harmonised according to technical lexis, since we have a long-term university, colleges that care about it and who have arranged this area. So I think that the name persistent organic half-tans, or more polluting. So, we heard from the promoter that it's about substances that are persistent, what does that mean? That they remain permanently in nature, in conditions of the atmosphere, so there is no change in neither physicochemical nor biologically susceptible to decomposition, therefore there are no enzymes that can break them down and may be for centuries in nature. The toxics are far, far-reaching, or far-reaching, and we have heard the important feature that the solvents are in fat, so they're bioaccumulating or there's biomagnification. So these are all unpleasant properties and that's why great attention is important because we also find these substances everywhere. You have in the seawater of the North Sea, it doesn't know, in nanograms, in sediment in milligrams, i.e. in micrograms and ultimately in the tissues of living beings, it climbs to milligrams per kilogram. So there's a big problem. Some of these substances were deliberately produced. So the pesticides are mentioned, we have various herbicides, various substances, fuel regulators, we also have polychlorinated biphenyls, these are hydraulic oils, and transformer oils that have been produced in large quantities for years. However, there are also by-products that are not intended for products but have happened as a by-product of a particular process of industrial or most frequent burning of the breeds, or dioxins and furan, some of which we know, some we have yet to determine, so there is an active science, research and identification in general of detecting and connecting with the problems we find in the environment. So there's a serious situation, and that's why science is rebuilding these lists. We have a situation here that industry or market is more important than science so that products that pass through one simple check on the market, and the example is here the DDT that was declared an all-powerful product, so insecticide that was used before World War II and another 10, 15 years, and it's a very good example of the photographs that I show to my students, which shows the big machine that to the beaches, I think it's somewhere on the East coast of North America, dusting the whole area, running around children and bathing with DDT, and on that machine there's a sign that it's DDT, that it's a powerful insecticide but harmless to people, so it literally wrote it. Of course, science has found that there are many problems and it is banned and withdrawn, etc. That's why we introduced so-called. The precautionary principle, or we did not introduce it, was introduced as 15 of the 17 principles, and the UN declaration of Rio 1992. So, when there is a situation, when there are controversys, when there are double scientific insights, of course those who offer industry that says it's all right and then science that appears, especially one that is independent, if it is, it's worth keeping an eye on, then it certainly needs to respect that principle and wait with the application of the release into operation or to sell such products. Today, we are facing new products that are rapidly reaching very high traffic and that complete insights do not exist, or where they are not responsible for all the questions that interested science is asking. But anyway, the lists are revised and therefore there is a need to revise this protocol, and this flow has to do with, say, secondary activities like waste management, I'm going to mention these dioxins and furans that can be present in the combustion plants in smoke gases to a concentration of 0.1 nanogram per cubic metre. So it can be. That is otherwise the most toxic possible compound is declared by many, and it is allowed in smoke gas and incinerators. So how much is this emissions, so 0.1 nanogram doesn't sound very much, but 100 thousand tons of waste when we burn, there's 500 million cubic meters of smoke gas. So when it multiplys, it's 50 milligrams. Someone can say it again, so it's nothing. However, given the importance of this compound and its action that one molecule is actually enough to start you in a completely wrong way then it is also important that the inventory of certain countries when all the sums are summed up to a gram or 2. So it matters. And so these options, therefore, without avebel technologists or the best available technique, can often be a mask or curtain of the right approach, or beyond which the possible right approach is not seen, and this is the best available concept. So today we need to talk about concepts, so we need to talk about approach, and then it offers a complete solution. All right, let me finish. I don't owe you any more. Certainly this protocol if these changes can be observed in the language, because there is no point in not showing prior knowledge of the language itself, that it is necessary to accept and certainly push everything that stands in parallel. So, I mentioned waste management, but also other sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67681	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67682	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this bill of law, like the previous bill in many things, is practically what we said in the previous law, we can say about this, which was also seen from the State Secretary's presentation, as well as from fellow Dobrovic. It is therefore the amendments and additions to the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants. It's about the same convention again. The Republic of Croatia has been a member of the Protocol since 2007, and unlike what we have said at the previous point, we are not only talking about monitoring and reduction here, but we are talking about certain pollutants, even about the complete removal from the use and use of these substances at all. As with the last Protocol, air emissions are required to be reduced to 1990 levels. In 2007, the European Union launched amendments to the Protocol and a decision was made in 2009. Therefore, these amendments and amendments to the text of the Protocol include additional permanent organic pollutants and restricts their production and use, amends the applicable implementation requirements applicable to certain permanent organic pollutants in such a way as to introduce certain additional limits, prescribes the emission limit values applicable to emissions of permanent organic pollutants into the air from certain combustion plants and establishes new limits for the emissions of dioxin furans from the synthesis plant and secondary production of steel in electroluent furnaces. Like the last one, there are 33 parties in the Protocol. So far, the protocol has adopted 13, and yet it takes 2/3 of the parties to make these changes live. Col. Dobrović also mentioned a polychlorinated biphenyl so-called PCB. In the previous years there in the '70s, 80s practically all transformers had PCBs in them. In particular, the condensation batteries that were installed in the plants were built exclusively with that substance. Later, then, its application was like something revolutionary and normal at the time, and later it turned out to be very carcinogenic and not only a problem of air emissions, but also of soil, and especially of spilling that oil in an area of pollution and water. In 2008, the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation on PCB and PCT management on the basis of which certain actions were carried out where those who had and used PCBs had practically removed it and taken care of it in an adequate manner. It's one remark small on a fellow Bulja who says we're passing protocols, we're passing laws, but we don't apply them. This is an example where we have applied something before we adopt the Protocol because our national legislation is in fact already in line with all the amendments and additions to this Protocol. Of course, we need to accept this Protocol as soon as possible because we are not only helping it to be implemented in the Republic of Croatia but also helping countries in the environment, and then when it is spent in a wider circle, we are more protected. Of course the Croatian Democratic Community Club will accept this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67683	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Totgergelia. We have one replica. Dear colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67684	Here's a respected colleague, that all these compounds that PCB's polychlorinated biphenyl has been used for a very long time. It was transformer oil, for example, in tanks, so the accident around PCBs occurred when it was found to have major harmful repercussions because it's carcinogenic, but there's something even worse when it burns down, so tank fights also lead to the creation of even worse compounds. So, dioxins and forans are the ones that come into existence then, and who knows what else. It is true that Croatia started to replace these materials and probably on paper everything is beautifully written only we hope that everything is really so and remedied, i.e. taken care of because we know that the price for care is therefore quite high. So it must be special stoves and prices are high so that mixing PCBs with lush oil and burning is the worst thing that can happen, I hope it doesn't have much, even if I've heard something about it. Because PCBs are, therefore, polychlorinated biphenyl to a extent, biphenyl would be a great fuel, but when substituted with chlorine more than four, it doesn't burn or burn badly, and then when it does, then the miracles of side effects occur. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67685	I thank my colleague Dobrovic for the replica. My colleague Totgergeli's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67686	Thank you, colleague Dobrovic, for the update. What I am fully convinced is that in Croatia when the story of transformer oil and about condensation batteries was then the largest number of objects where it was installed had just been Croatian electricity and the Croatian electricity industry had already been completely built there in the 1970s and replaced with new facilities where the PCB was and all of this was recovered together in a way that even in Croatia could not be completely destroyed, but was transported to France and was removed in France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67687	I thank my colleague Totgergeli for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate, and we're going to vote on this item on the agenda when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67688	The final proposal for a law on the validation of amendments and additions to the first, second, third, fourth, sixth and eighth protocols on permanent organic pollutants from 1998 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and the amendment and addition of the first and second Protocol on Standing Organic Contaminants from 1998 to the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 248. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 119 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67689	We move to the next item of the agenda Final proposal for a law on the confirmation of a partnership and development cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on the other hand, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 265. The proposed act shall be adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate under Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the committee responsible for foreign policy. I would like a representative of the motionary's respected State Secretary, Mrs. Andre Metelko Zgombić, to give us further reasons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67690	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. It's a great honor to address this High House for the first time. I would like to present to you, on behalf of the Government, a proposal for a law confirming an agreement on cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. Taking into account progress in relations between the European Union and the Member States and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the common desire to strengthen and extend mutual relations and cooperation between the Council of the European Union in November 2011 authorised the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to start negotiations with the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on a Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement. The negotiations on the Agreement were successfully concluded in Kabul on 2 July 2015 and the draft text of the Agreement in question was agreed and initialled on 16 November 2016, and the Agreement was signed on 18 February 2017 in Munich, Germany. It is important to say that for many years the Republic of Croatia has been actively involved in the process of stabilising and building the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan through participation in NATO missions, development projects and planned monetary donations, all in order to help Afghanistan. Therefore, the desire of the Republic of Croatia as well as of the European Union and its Member States is to help Afghanistan's efforts to become a stable functional democracy capable of offering its people the future he wants and deserves. In this context, the Agreement expresses the mutual interest of the European Union and the Member States and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in strengthening dialogue and cooperation by day and by general dissemination of mutual relations. The objective of the Agreement will contribute to further democratisation of Afghanistan, peace and security, as well as the promotion of human rights and gender equality, and provide a basis for the development of a new stable and independent Afghanistan. The joint commitment of the parties and the promotion of development cooperation will seek to eradicate poverty or at least mitigate and give the necessary incentive to the joint development of trade and investment and cooperation in all areas of the economy. This agreement will seek to further improve co-ordination between parties when it comes to global challenges, in particular by promoting sustainable multilateral solutions for peace and security and by encouraging dialogue and cooperation in a number of specific areas of common interest. Here we can mention the modernisation of public administration and the management of public finances, justice and home affairs, environment and climate change, natural resources and raw materials, energy, transport, agriculture and a whole range of other areas covered by this Agreement. I would like to mention that the implementation of this law will take place within the framework of the regular activities of the state administration body and no additional resources will be necessary in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you for your attention and I am available for further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67691	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms Metelko-Zgombic, for this explanation. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Glas and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. She's not present. On behalf of SDP's representative, respected colleague Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67692	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the opening statement. The main message I want to make is that today the SDP Club will support this Agreement. Since there are few of us and that there are colleagues here who are very well aware of the situation both in Afghanistan and trying to do what is wanted to be done with this Agreement, I will not owe it. So this is one of the elements of an attempt to put Afghanistan on sound ground because stopping illegal activities, stopping terrorist networks and their functioning all together does not provide the people of Afghanistan the existence and survival. So far, they have achieved a good part of their income through the production of various types of opiates. Therefore, an attempt to build institutions and put on sound foundations also involves one development aid, technical assistance, means training Afghanistan for independent life, both in economic terms and in the social sense, and then in the establishment of functioning institutions. This Agreement is one wheel in this great effort, and that is why we support it and that is why we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67693	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also welcome the secretary of state. I thank you for a detailed explanation of this Agreement. Therefore, I will not be in debt for the very elements of this Agreement either. Just to mention that this is one in a series of international communities whose Croatia is, of course, part of the European Union in helping Afghanistan. Following the conference in London, Bonn, Tokyo, Brussels, this Agreement therefore provides one framework for cooperation between the European Union and Afghanistan. Croatia already has one such agreement on a bilateral basis. However, we will now ratify as a member of the European Union. Perhaps just to mention how we are, of course, aware of all the challenges facing Afghanistan and today, especially when it comes to production, smuggling of illegal comrades, and this will focus on both part of this Agreement and the activities that will be based on this Agreement. However, we also lose our chance sometimes to say that the same progress has been made in Afghanistan, especially when we look at how the situation was in 2001. From 2001 to today, for example Access to health services has increased from e.g. 9% of the population to 57% of the population. The average life span in Afghanistan from 2001 to today moved from 44 years to 60 years. As far as schooling is concerned, 10 times as many children today are in schools in Afghanistan, 39% of which are PDB's girls per capitas rose from $120 to $590. Of course, it does not reduce the fact that today 39% of the population of Afghanistan is below the poverty line, that unemployment in Afghanistan is about 40% and that we have almost 3 million Afghans who are refugees in Iran or Pakistan. In 2015, a good part of them took off as we know it to the European Union. They were even another group of so-called. illegal or irregular migrants. Therefore, this Agreement also deals with the issue of migration in a way that tries to provide development resources to ensure conditions for a better life in Afghanistan. But we are aware of, of course, all the challenges of the need for the international community to remain active in this context and of the European Union, which is committed 5 billion euros by 2020 for the application of this Agreement. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will therefore support the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67695	I thank my esteemed colleague, Davor Evey Stier, for this debate. We're moving on to the next one. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall, respected colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67696	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are, at the end of another working day, witnessing a new example of the agreement of HDZ and SDP, which are always about every issue that is crucial, therefore, have the same opinion, vote equally, and then really need to ask what the opposition in Croatia is for, or why one opposition has a weak rating. Well, here's the thing. Namely, what's controversial here. It's slow, okay. Contracts are concluded, contracts are signed. It is very nice, to negotiate with all countries of the world and try to help, etc. But here we are told fairy tales that the people of Afghanistan have been very well since the American Army and NATO occupied their country. So here's these three million refugees that are headed for Europe, they're going because they're doing very well, so now that they're coming to tell us here, we're doing great in Afghanistan, we just came to let you know. It's very nice, Mr. Stier, that NATO killed 350,000 Afghans. Those are the numbers you forgot to mention. Among them were many children you also care about, hospitals were bombed. I'd just like to draw your attention to having you sign up to Google NATO World Crimes Afghanistan, so look at the pictures from there. So I really don't know what to show some kind of satisfaction with therefore one shameless aggression and occupation that was committed to the free people of Afghanistan who did not start with the NATO alliance, but unfortunately with the former Soviet Union. Perhaps in that context you find some links, so with your colleagues from the SDP. The government with which this agreement is signed is the puppet government. The government cannot defend the capital for 30 days to withdraw NATO forces, as the entire Afghan people are against it, because the rebel, or resistance forces, are the force of freedom stronger than the government's trained militia, which is among other things paid by Croatian taxpayers. So it is clear and loud that Croatian taxpayers are paying the police to protect the puppet government in Afghanistan. It's all very sad that we're involved in serving people one truth that's not true. Of course, we have the kind of media that we have that is controlled by corporations, which are supervised by lawyers who carry out mass activity on the Croatian people, and then it is their goal to support such a government that thus spreads untruth. I'd just like to say one thing that the Living Wall opposes support, so the government that is currently in Afghanistan. We demand that NATO leave the country urgently, that they choose for themselves whom they want in power and that after a legal democratic government is elected, Croatia sign a bilateral agreement with the government in the interest of both countries. Once again, I would like to stress my welcome to the Afghan people and their efforts to have their freedom and hope that the day will come very soon when all the occupation forces will withdraw from that proud country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67697	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc for this debate. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Andrei Metelko Zgombic, for explaining this bill. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points for today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual support of the host state with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 255. Thank you all and have a good day! Session adjourned at 1920 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-18-0.u67698	The final draft law confirming the Cooperation Agreement for Partnership and Development between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 265. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal for a law confirming the Cooperation Agreement for Partnership and Development between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, of the other part. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 122 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against the passed Law confirming the Partnership and Development Agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan on the other. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. The first point is: The final draft law on confirming the memorandum of consent between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of Romania on mutual provision of support for the host country, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 255. Hands are in the air. My colleague Puh is the first to say co-workers.
