ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86439	Now we will move to the first point today, which is: - Proposed law on the performance of student affairs, first reading, P.Z. Number 348. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science, Training Branko Ramljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86440	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here is my pleasure to present a short bill where the power to produce and present laws has been given to the Ministry of Science and Education. It is the Law on the conduct of college jobs, which has been regulated since 1996 by one of the Rules on Intervention in the Employment of Regular Students. Clearly, the volume of jobs, the area of doing student work, has grown in the meantime and has simply been conditioned that this space must be further regulated by a new legislation. The main issues covered by the proposal for this law are the definition of the right of students, the regulation of the obligation to keep records on the performance of student affairs, the definition of conditions for the performance of intervention activities, the definition of obligations of intermediaries, the definition of conditions for the performance of student affairs, the definition of conditions and the way in which a student contract is concluded, the definition of the obligations of the contracting authority, the definition of how to apply the compensation for the intervention, the inspection supervision, but clearly and the infringement provisions. So as for defining students' rights, it is equal to the right to perform student activities of regular students and extracurricular students who do not have a basic working relationship. Furthermore, the regulation of the obligation to keep records of the performance of student affairs states that the obligation is now being introduced for the contracting authorities to keep records of performers and data deliveries to the mediator and labour inspectorate, more specifically the obligation of the mediator to keep records of performers, of contracting entities, of contracts and accounts issued, and of records of the level of compensation of the contractor, as well as of keeping documentation and the possibility of making it known. As regards the defined conditions for the implementation of the intervention activities, the proposal for this law lays down the minimum percentages built and placed in the function of accommodation units and seats in relation to the total number of regular students studying in the place where the headquarters of intermediaries is located, which the intermediary must satisfy, which will be clearly decided by the special commission. As regards the definition of the obligations of the intermediary primarily including the publication of the general conditions of business, the insurance of contractors for work injury, legal assistance and the protection of contractors in seeking compensation for the job done. As regards the definition of the conditions for doing student work, the proposal for this legislation defines that the right to do student work has a student who has achieved a minimum of 1 ects in the previous academic year. In addition, as regards the definition of the terms and conditions and the way in which a student contract is concluded between the performers, intermediaries and contracting entities, it is prescribed that the conclusion procedure is in writing or electronic form prior to the start of the transaction and that the taxation is clearly carried out under the applicable laws and sublaws, as well as that the broker contract is a credible instrument for the calculation and payment of contributions and compensation to the intermediary. As regards the definition of the obligations of the contracting authority, the payment of minimum fees for the performance of these transactions, the right to increase the remuneration for the job done, the provision of safe conditions for the performance of the job, protection of the dignity of the performer and the right to rest. A minimum fee for the performance of student work per hour is also introduced so that the amount of minimum gross salary in the Republic of Croatia is divided by 160, a restriction is introduced for the contracting authorities for the purpose of protecting students and workers and that, during the course of the course of the course of the student work, the contracting authority cannot cancel the employment contract for business reasons performed by the performers, therefore the students, and that the contracting officer who cancelled the employment contract in the last 6 months cannot enter into a contract for the performance of student jobs with the contractor for the work on these jobs. The method of using the mediation fee is also defined. Intermediaries, therefore, student centres or within the university centres that carry out such tasks, are obliged to take care of the promotion and development of their activities, to improve the standard of living of students. Intermediates are a part of the revenue intended to be used for the purpose of funding cultural, sports, but also educational, scientific and other activities exclusively intended for and towards students. The allocation process of such funds is also defined, the obligation of intermediaries to publish information on the distribution and use of revenue from the intervention and the obligation to deliver a written report to the competent ministry each year. As regards inspection supervision, inspection supervision of the implementation of this law and the regulations adopted on the basis of it, because, on the basis of this law, we have an obligation as a ministry within 60 days to develop two regulations that will regulate certain areas, especially areas relating to the appearance of a student contract and additional conditions that intermediaries must also satisfy where it is said that this inspection supervision relating to the work of the contractors for the job, shall be carried out by inspectors and other authorised officials responsible for the supervision of the rules in the field of labour, tax, cut and contribution in accordance with specific regulations and shall be subject to the provisions relating to the provision of intervention in the conduct of student affairs by the Ministry. And if you'll excuse me, I'd just like to say a little bit more at the end of this regulation, probably a large part of you, in any way, is connected through your acquaintances, children or friends with these student affairs. Maybe someone will say there's no news. In fact, this is the area, so in the last 22 years a little rule that regulated only the process of intervening in these affairs, was regulated by law, everything else was not regulated, but was done clearly in accordance with individual policies, in ways and in any case, I would like to highlight as one of the newspapers being introduced, and then say what are the basic objectives of adopting this one bill. So one of the basic newspapers, for which the students showed first and foremost, is the possibility of expanding the definition of students, for the purposes of this law. So, we have students who study regular study programmes in a regular or full program as we say students who study extraordinary study programs. In these situations, our regular students, have a whole series of rights stemming from the definition of a regular student, so they have the right to subsidise food, the right to subsidise accommodation, the right to do business. On the other hand, extracurricular students, other than the obligation to pay fees for entering the study, have no other rights. The situation is that this law really wants to introduce order in doing these jobs, transparently, for intermediaries, for orderers, but also for students, to see transparently, for which jobs and for which students, looking for these jobs, are involved. For your information, as far as extraordinary students are concerned, I would like to say that for 2017 there were just over 43,000 extraordinary students, some of them more than 16000 are any of them who do not work. So this extension of student definition applies only to exceptional students who don't work. Of course you can ask the question, what are extraordinary students, who don't work? However, despite the fact that our society, that this government, indeed a lot of subsidized costs of study through accommodation and through nutrition, through subsidies, scholarships, but also through a significant increase in scholarships. Still, there are many of our students, who cannot cover the total cost of studying during the year, and they should work. They're in a situation, it's a social one, I'd say, the social dimension of higher education, where we want education to be available to everyone, and even to those who don't have the opportunity, that at the moment they enter, they can satisfy or round the entire cost of study. But that's why it allows them to do occasional, temporary, college jobs to make themselves some kind of amount of money, which will allow them to pass that monthly, one month for their expenses. Here, we are available for all questions, but we expect in fact that in this way it will be made possible in some way and that this is one of the demographic measures, because in this way we also enable students so some 10,000 students and more who are potential to perform above all seasonal affairs, which we very much miss, here we are now in the course of the tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86441	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86442	Thank you very much. I'm sorry she's not a minister here, but she's a secretary. Because there's a rumor today that the minister wants to protect with this law students, you on the other hand are not thinking about it at all, when a student opens a company, which is innovative, which wants to be taken, that he loses the right of a regular student. And at the same time, these students of ours, they open up a line of companies, because they're young, smart, in Ireland, in other countries. In fact, you penalize all those students who want to work, create a new value, you penalize with this law. You've only legalized that these people, young people who want to work, can't be regular students, can't exercise their rights under the laws they have. Only because they want to open up the company and want to work, and with this you penalize them, with this you penalize them, but they will open up the company as so far in other countries, he line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86443	Thank you. Before we continue, we have interested here, welcome to the gallery representatives of the Croatian Student Assembly... And now we'll hear the answer of the respected secretary of state, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86444	Thank you very much for your comment, Your Honor, this law doesn't regulate it, so I can only say that. This area doesn't regulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86445	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86446	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I have one question, which is a little wider than this law, and it is related to Minister Maric's portfolio, i.e. the portfolio of finance. We have here, therefore, this law, we think it is good, it is good to regulate, students participated, therefore, it should be seen as an affirmative improvement, but there is one restriction, which is linked to the Secretary of Finance's portfolio, where after a certain amount that the student does, the student ceases to be a relief to his parent. So those students who have to work, so the assumption is that those who can't pay or something else want more. Is it thoughtless, is it agreed, that in terms of some tax reforms, which are still announced, this basically shifts the amount that today is 15,000 kuna, or that it may be completely abolished because it is an interest to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86447	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86448	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs. So as far as the part of parents who have reliefs on their children up to 15,000 kunas are concerned, they have the right to use that relief. Above that is another amount that is interesting, that is 60,600 kuna which speaks of that if a student makes such a fee during the year that taxes and contributions should then be paid to those amounts in accordance with all other regulations. Yes, the Ministry of Science and Education is in contact with the Ministry of Finance, we are discussing this possibility. There are advantages and shortcomings, so we are aware that people in Croatia, young people want to work to not only get some practice but to achieve this very social dimension. So esteemed Madam Representatives, we will continue our talks with the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86449	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state. Here is just one question regarding Article 12 of the Rewards and Contributions. We know about this famous fee for 12% mediators, and here these 0.5 net amounts are regulated for the performer to be financed by cultural, sports and other student choir projects. I'm curious to know that the biggest pain was the student choirs because they fought to get certain student centres where the income from this fee would be invested in what activities. How did this happen to 0.5, could it be more or perhaps more necessary to discuss in more detail in this article, on what income from student work fees will be invested at the level of individual student centres of our university? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86451	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86452	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So in the commission that was working on the proposal for this law were the representatives of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the union. And this percentage that's agreed on is actually a matter of negotiation. What is important for the prominent, and I must say that personally as someone who participated and managed the university and as a university teacher I must highlight this work of student choirs, the prominent work of activities that are increasing year after year. Our students very often despite all of this, I said just before and the subsidies that go towards the university and what is required by the student centres to allocate their incomes to improve student standards are always missing certain amounts of money, so students often address different activities and the ministry. Our students are also great in sports and they often have extra funds for international competitions, except for this and for conferences and for additional education and workshops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86453	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates. This is a law that opens up other issues that are well mentioned today in the debate, and it is about the fact that we always want Croatia to be a society of equal opportunities for everyone. It will be if it becomes a socially mobile society, what today unfortunately is not a socially mobile society because the approach to higher education you six times is greater if you come from a family of higher socioeconomic status. So it's a key message, but it's also a message that goes directly to the problem of extracurricular students. So we will not solve the problem of extracurricular students only in a way to ensure that they can do temporary and occasional jobs but that they should access a complete reorganization of an extraordinary study because it is unfortunately not suitable for persons who study with work. And that's one of the main problems that should be the message of our debate today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86455	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86456	Thank you very much for your comment. I would just point out that during the year, in our plan of normative activities and the creation of a new Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, where we are going to regulate this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86457	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86458	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected secretary of state with associates. Here we have a law that allows now work and extraordinary students, that part we welcome anyway. So there's a circle of people who can do occasional jobs through student contracts. However, more control is being introduced, the recording of these contracts and their preservation is being introduced. I know you have data on how many student contracts are now, so I'm curious about these two changes whether you plan on growing that contract number or whether given the greater control it's going to keep at the same level or maybe smaller, just knowing what the situation was like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86459	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86460	Thank you very much. Here's to the information when we started making this bill, so we have information for 2015 and 2016. In 2016, about 85,000 students used this right to do student work. And the answer to your question about what's going to happen with more control, I don't expect a larger number can be the same or less because one of the reasons for passing this law is greater transparency for doing these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86461	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86462	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. It's good to regulate student rights. My question is do you have any information on how many employers they haven't paid off to students for their jobs? Because surely we have to protect them if they are already forced to work with their parents on their studies, then we have to protect them from charging their jobs. And I would add one more question, given that, we know that the cheapest study in the city is where you live, where you live, where you have a home, and my question is whether or not it's being considered, or in what direction it's reached with the expansion of the university network and the establishment of a university in SB, because the Slavons would also study and work and stay living in Slavonia, but let's give everyone an equal chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86463	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86464	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, as far as your first piece is concerned, about how much the job-payers pay, that records are being kept by intermediaries, yes, and we have to admit that the question has been discussed with students because the question has been raised, some employers haven't paid student contracts, why do you still want to do these jobs? But students have different reasons why they agree to work with an employer who at some point did not pay for a particular job? Because, of course, first of all, it's important to get some compensation, a number of students want to do these jobs to get practice, and we actually lack practice is the basic reason why very often entrepreneurs when starting the working relationship of our young students say students have a lot of theories, but the skills to do jobs don't have so this is one of the ways. And the second answer for Slavonski Brod, what I know that the University of Osijek has formed a commission, is precisely the 90 days in which they must be manifested about this separation from the University of Osijek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86465	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86466	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, in your presentation, you said that by the definition of students you included all students. So I am interested in what is part of our students who are studying at the University of Mostar, founded by the Croatian County in BiH, is partly funded from the Croatian budget, which is largely studied by Croatian students who also have citizenship of the Republic of Croatia, but their residence is in BiH. So I wonder if this article will eventually be complemented or changed in the direction that they are allowed to work until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86467	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86468	So it's important to stay, thank you very much for asking, as far as students coming from BiH are concerned, they have the same rights as our students if they are reported here in the Republic of Croatia. And otherwise, our ministry, our government is actually helping the very University of Mostar by providing significant financial resources that are also provided for by the budget of our country and these financial resources are used to improve the overall activities of scientific research and teaching at the University of Mostar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86469	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86470	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. So we're talking today about what prompted the adoption of this law, which is the needs and the situation in which extraordinary students were found. However, it seems to me that this law will not solve this cause, it will solve in part what the needs of the students themselves are, this is their life situation, especially extraordinary in this regard, and we support it. However, because of the fact that universities are increasingly enrolling in extraordinary students, why are they unable to score enough points, which is why extraordinary students are not really students who study with work? That's the basic question. Yeah, they're going to solve part of their situation, so the living situation, the standard, but this fundamental one, I think we should do it another way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86471	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86472	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As far as this work is concerned, as far as the quotas for extraordinary students are concerned, it's in the Senates of the university and it's the autonomy of the university. But to demystify the category of a remarkable student, in fact, why were there among the 43,000 students who did not work? So our extraordinary students are those who failed to enroll as regular students, that is one part and the number of students who failed to exercise the right to pass exams and lost the right of a regular student. These are the reasons why they found themselves in the category of extraordinary students, and clearly, we are aware that this law will not solve the problem of extraordinary students, but at our universities and all of us together, it is that we are working to plan quotas to take care of what kind of study programmes are, however, I repeat, at present and as constitutionally guaranteed, it is the autonomy of the university, and we as a ministry will try to negotiate in programme contracts and part of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86473	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Rechimer Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86474	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's a well-respected secretary of state for accepting, as far as I've seen, most of the comments of the students on this bill that pleases me. This is one of the few laws where it can be read that the remark is accepted. It is good that you have equalised the right to do student work regularly with exceptional students who have no employment, based working relationship and do not carry out their own activities. It's a good thing you've imposed a high sentence of 100,000 kuna. There's something I miss. Where do those penalties go? If we are to say that fees are also shared to improve student standards, in particular nutrition, financing of cultural, sports, scientific activities of students, then I would like to have another item in Article 17 that part of these penalties is also directed for those purposes if they are normally spoken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86475	The answer to a respected secretary of state. There isn't. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the first one will be on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, and I'm sorry, I forgot. A fellow Bull raised his hand probably looking for a break if I understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86476	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Mosta Club, he would ask for a 10-minute break, if we could consult, because according to this information, which we are getting about the case of the boy's conduct in Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86477	Excuse me, colleague Bulj, you can't ask for a break for this, read the Rules of Procedure, you can ask for a break about the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86478	That's not true. I can read your article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86479	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86480	Here, read the article, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86481	Read the article. 3. Look at Art. 5, please. ... Please read it to yourself. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86482	That's the rule you've set from now on, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86483	Read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86484	I'm reading an article. 248.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86485	Look at the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86486	Article 248, so far there's been a rule, I don't know what's bothering you. I think it's too serious a situation, that in this way, there's a blocked road down in Split, we're having problems and I'm looking for a 10-minute break, because it's a boy who's been done and I don't think it's a breach of the rules of procedure, that's the rule here and the last days, when we're looking for a break, I don't see what I'm breaking my rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86487	You can look for a break in connection with the point, which is under discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86488	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86489	I'm sorry, I am, I know a little bit more about the rules of procedure than you do, and if you think I'm wrong, please appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and... The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A fellow Bull. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86490	Read Art. 248 and that we have a break right, of course you've abolished it, but certainly I have to tell you, without referring to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86491	Comrade Bull, I will now give you a warning... You're getting a warning now, Comrade Bull, don't continue you'll get a second warning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] .../Intruder Bulj: Bringing in people who film this event unloved in Split, so please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86494	... to be dignified and to ask for a break of 10 minutes and to find a solution and some common solution to consult and address this problem. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86495	For the sake of education, I'll read you article 3 to learn something, finally, to read something at last. The period set out in this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the meeting. Therefore, finally read the Rules of Procedure, and today you no longer have the right to continue speaking. Thank you very much. ... You don't, you've been taken away, you've been given two notices, and I've taken away your right to speak, because you didn't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because you didn't, that you kept talking even though I mentioned you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. We're going to the Independent Lists Bridge, and in the name of which will be spoken by the esteemed representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates, Your Honor. According to the latest survey by Dr. Dunje Potočnik and Dr. Mirjana Adamovic of the Institute for Social Research in Zagreb, 86% of young people aged 19-29 are considering a permanent departure from the Republic of Croatia abroad. Obviously, the ruling data are quite acceptable, if they hadn't made a much more complete and new law adapted to November's needs in the 21st century. The law that would encourage the excellence of involving students in the labour market rewards the entrepreneurial spirit among the November population and finally clearly separates the work from November's rights. In her statement, Minister Divjak stressed that the proposed law allows for the protection of students and their rights and the abuse of student law, prevention and clearly defined obligations of students, student centres, which I will have to record in the future who works, where he works, under which conditions and who achieves the reception. It means 2018. The government of the Republic of Croatia boasts that it will now finally know who it is and where it worked and how much it has earned. Awesome, who would only remember that. The minister talks about the protection of students, while on the other hand she is not considering the following problem, that our entrepreneurs, regular students, who want to open their businesses in Croatia, cannot do so because our country then abolishes their rights as a regular student. What is there to protect them from? So, out of innovation, entrepreneurship, labour markets, gaining experience, instead of accepting both lunches such students and young people, to support them, to develop their entrepreneurial spirit, to encourage them and reward them for having the courage to create a new value, to take the risks that entrepreneurship carries, and to include them in the labour market, this country penalizes them by seizing the status of a regular student. And then what do these young, smart and imaginary people do? They're opening a line of companies in Ireland, Estonia, Great Britain and America and it's okay for our people in power. Of course our political elites don't care how they do it more successfully than we do. In Estonia, for example. If the Parliament allowed short films, presentations and so on, then it would show one film, which is called, which is designed at the University of Tallinn, it is a center for innovation and entrepreneurship, which is designed to be helpful, precisely to those students, whom we defend, to be innovative and entrepreneurship and on whose website. is the next sentence... I think this sentence best shows why 86% of young people want to leave Croatia, why Estonia today is one of Europe's most developed countries, and we camp at its bottom and show it as a major success of equalising the rights of regular and extraordinary students, with of course all present state regulation of student labour prices. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If this country really cared about the student population then I would have changed the rule dating back to 1996 then given myself a little more effort and written a serious law, not these 20 articles that are mostly full of typical and popular concepts of our political elites such as obligations, conditions, fees, inspections and prescribed penalties. A law that the Ministry of Education would write in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Few more statistics, 42% of students work during the academic year, another 28% of Croatian students work but only outside the academic year. Croatian students work mostly, under a) to cover the cost of living 75%, under b) to gain a working experience of 66%, c) because they would not be able to study without a paid job 44% and d) because they have to financially help other people 26%. On average, about 70% of all student costs of Croatian students are borne by the family as a rule by parents. In return, members of the family who support students give tax relief from income tax systems, but only if the student has not earned more than 15,000 kuna in one year. If a student earns more than 15,000 kuna in total and out of work, scholarships and similar in tax terms ceases to be a dependent person. The cost of student life in one academic year greatly exceeds 15,000 kuna, i.e. 1,250 kuna per month. Isn't it time to raise this unreal limit? And lastly, I don't know which time I think this law proves itself and confirms that this government doesn't want a real change and improvement in this segment, mainly in entrepreneurs and innovative students who may be the last chance for this country and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86497	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDZ representative, and time will be shared by respected representatives Ante Bačić and Tomislav Sokol. First, the respected representative of BAčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86498	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We're going to switch a little bit into a more positive tone after this exposure. In front of us, the proposal for a law on the conduct of student affairs, as the State Secretary has introduced us to the so far, has been through the Rules on Intervention in the Employment of Regular Students, which has been in force since '96. A year. So it's about time a new bill came out on this subject. In doing so, the Government established a working group last year for the development of this proposal that has long been counciled, made one quality bill that we can possibly work on until the second reading itself, and on which it is most important that colleagues from the Student Assembly, their representatives have just participated and made their remarks and made this law. With this I welcome colleagues who have joined us here as representatives of the Croatian Student Assembly. Perhaps the most important item of this law is just to equalise the right to perform the student affairs of regular and extraordinary students. When we think about it and see the effects that it will bring, we should return to the very definition of regular and extraordinary students of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. In fact, regular students are those who study according to a program based on full class and study costs are partially or fully covered i.e. they subsidise from the state budget. While emergency students under this law, that definition is important, they attend an educational programme with work or other activity. It is therefore important to enable this student population to use the right to study. We have to point out, there's been a lot of talk here about whether extraordinary students should be entitled to this, why they've enrolled a very special study. We need to be honest with our universities there are a large number of study programmes, especially in these latest extensions of student programs that can only be entered in exceptional form, so students who study as exceptional are not only because they failed to enroll as regular students, it is not only because they may be worse students, so they had to enroll for a second or third year in order to stay studying but there are certain study programmes in both Split and Zagreb and all of our universities that are attractive but are exclusively implemented in an extraordinary programme. In this law we also see regulation of the obligation to keep records in the performance of student affairs, it is also very important to keep the documentation itself, but also to report to the Ministry on the past year and who has worked and how much revenue has been made and that is important because under this '96 rule. It was not clear how student work was being supervised in practice, so it was good that this proposal regulated it. So far, it has not been clear or defined the procedure for granting resolution for the approval of the intervention activities. This law also regulates itself in detail and it is important that only the ministry establish a commission in which colleagues and representatives of the Croatian Student Assembly will continue to be there on the threshold and normally control themselves the detailed procedure for issuing a solution to the approval of the intervention activities. In the law itself there are articles related to defining the obligations of the intermediaries themselves, it is important to highlight the protection of the students themselves related after and for injuries to work, occupational diseases, legal aid, etc. Definition of the very conditions for doing student work, I think the Croatian Student Assembly also had several objections that we can and should discuss between the two readings of this law. In fact, students can use the said right to perform student jobs and contract for the same if students who are enrolled in the current academic year have previously achieved at least 1 ects point. Of course, that doesn't apply to freshmans, but I think we also discriminate against one student population, we all praise Bologna and Erasmus and mobility and change of studies so that we can't even discriminate against a certain population of students who may not feel the call for a particular interest in the first year and change it in the second year, and then in the second year, they must not, even if they are regular, have the right to use this right from student jobs. So we definitely need to consider between the two readings whether or not we want to, and I think we should definitely change that. As for the terms and methods of conclusion of the contract, we heard from the secretary of state, and we definitely welcome that, with this law, there will be two other regulations, one of the regulations will be exactly the part that includes the look of the student contract itself, I think that there should also be a mention of the efforts of individual student centres, specifically the student centre in Split, where I have personally worked. This rule and only the conclusion of the contract and the student centres themselves I think they're going in the direction of digitization and it's a complete, online contract issue, it's unnecessary for our students to run every month from the counter to the counter, especially in the summer season. It is unnecessary cost and student centres, as well as unnecessary separation and our fellow students. I think it can be regulated precisely by online contract release, but I think this law also opens up a framework for it to be possible, just by introducing an article in an article related to the electronic form of the issue of the contract itself. There are still defined, of course, and the obligations of job-orderers, and it is important that this item is also very important that trade unions resented whether student work will replace a permanent working relationship, I don't think it will. There are clear indications, and here are the items that regulate what the client must meet, that workers cannot be replaced by a student within 6 months, so I don't think that the review of the union stands. And what I have mentioned in the replica itself about fees and this 0.5% amount that will develop precisely projects through student choirs' competitions, which I think is great, but I think most of the student centre's revenues from this form and fees related to student jobs should just go to the development of student standards, normally not just diets, not just accommodations, but projects that mean a lot to students themselves. As far as here is concerned in the final inspection surveillance, it is good that other state services are involved, not only the labour inspectorate, but also the ministry that will oversee a better form of adaptation and application of this law. So much for this part of me, my colleague Falcon will continue, of course HDZ will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86499	Thank you. Here's the sequel, dear representative Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, fellow MPs. I'm very glad to welcome you, since I myself ran a task force that did most of the work on this bill. In this working group were included except for the student assembly representatives and representatives of student centres, representatives of employers, trade unions, the Ministry of Labour and pension systems and the Ministry of Finance, so I think that the composition of the working group was very representative and a very high degree of consent was achieved, not fully, especially in this work concerning certain restrictions sought by the trade unions, but many of their actual suggestions were also adopted. I would also like to thank the current secretary of state at the Ministry of Science, the education of Mr. Matko Glunčić, who continued his work when I went to the Parliament and who brought him to an end and without whom this law would certainly not be before you today. Mostly first of all, as far as extraordinary students are concerned, I think it's a very good way to go, and it shows how this government listens to actually our student populations. Many things have been said and we certainly support the expansion of the ability to work through student service and to extraordinary students. What is mentioned here, and this is a question of how the system should be more noticeable, in fact, and more flexible towards forms of student work, as well as student entrepreneurship, I personally agree with it, I must admit, here are the HDZs sometimes with opposition, but this is not the subject of this law. So this law does not regulate the fundamental status, meaning how to define extraordinary students in all segments, that's what the secretary of state said, which is what a new basic law on scientific activity, which is 15 years old, is supposed to be passed by the end of the year, means a new law, and I hope that this issue will then be resolved. As far as the question of students studying in Mostar is concerned, I would just point out that this law applies to EU citizens, meaning Croatian citizens who have residence in the Republic of Croatia and are studying outside the Republic of Croatia, so all those who live, let's say that they have a permanent residence in the Republic of Croatia, and they are also covered by this law, for example in Mostar. The only person not covered by this law were persons living outside the Republic of Croatia and studying outside the Republic of Croatia, simply some conclusion was that it would be both for control, and for tax issues etc. It is simply difficult to implement, but it is not true that students who are also studying in Mostar are not covered, a good part of them is included through this bill. Furthermore, as far as the news of this law is concerned, most of it has already been mentioned, I would particularly point out the records, so it is much more detailed than the rules so far, the rules so far, that the obligation to keep records and especially the obligations of digitisation. So this digitisation will enable a much more transparent system of something that has been so far, and make it possible to do what is particularly important, means to give insight into all data to authorised persons, competent bodies, such as labour inspection, which will thus be able to detect all abuses. Because one of the main, in fact one of the 2 main objectives of adopting this law with ease of work for students was to organize systems and prevent abuse and, in that sense, this law certainly represents a major step forward. As for the conditions for the implementation of the intervention activity, it means that students' centres and higher universities can do so, it primarily thinks that integrated higher schools that have within them and some sort of structural unit, related to the performance of jobs, usually carried out by student centres. What is important is that for the first time the objective conditions, which such institutions, which want to carry out, are to satisfy. And what is particularly important, these conditions are related to their accommodation capacities and the capacity to provide nutrition for students. Which is actually, are those fundamental purposes why student centres exist. In other words, in this way, it is possible for intervention activities to be performed only by those who do indeed carry out the primary activity of providing student accommodation and student nutrition. And that there can't be, too, abuse, that someone's setting up some kind of a fictional company and stuff. so that they are squirming money through the interventions in the November work, i.e. doing student jobs without actually paying anything back to the students in that way. I think the conditions are objective that they are real, at first they are slightly lighter, but later on every 5 years, these licences must be renewed and these conditions must be even more stringent. In this way, in fact, every 5 years, it is controlled whether intermediaries meet the conditions, whether they have to meet or not. In that sense, he would also mention one thing, one suggestion, where perhaps one change in the law should occur, I think that is where the error occurred, and what is prescribed, that intermediaries, or that the student centres, comply with the fines of up to 100 thousand kn if they did not provide the contractor with working protection conditions and did not ensure the protection of the dignity of the workers, in this case the students, or performers. So these are the obligations that are primarily intended for the job-orderer, for the employer, in this sense, and I think that logically, then those violation provisions in Art. 17. will be redefined in such a way that the infringement of sanctions is prescribed for the contracting authority, i.e. the employer, and not for the student centres, i.e. intermediaries, because they are not actually responsible in that part. Also, as far as this part is concerned and the limitations of work and opportunity means preventing abuse, we have already mentioned this, I will say more about it in an individual debate, but I will stress that a number of mechanisms have been introduced to protect students and to prevent the November work from replacing this regular work. So, from the fact that you can't hire a student, on jobs for which someone has received a business conditioned notice, means setting minimum fees and also, I stress that there is even a higher level of protection for students than at the Labour Law for Workers, because it is explicitly prescribed that the working conditions of the holidays etc. have the right to a 50% higher fee, while for this Labour Act, that amount is not prescribed. So a lot of things have been achieved by this law, unfortunately, I don't get to go through all the details, I'm going to do a part of it through an individual debate, but I certainly think this law is a big step forward and the HDZ Club will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86501	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU, on behalf of which will speak respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86502	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the State Council, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. Here, in front of us is the first reading of the Law on the conduct of student affairs. So far we've had the rule book, we've decided to replace it with the law, and we appreciate that this effort is good, and it's good that it goes in that sense. The same way we heard from committees and debates, that this is a student choir, which, once again, I welcome to my colleagues upstairs, which is equally good for students, who have something to say and have certain experiences. But, however, we appreciate the following, is if you decide to regulate something, then you can regulate it in a way, in fact, one rule to be translated into law, and you have to make certain steps. It's not a step in this sense, so between the first and second readings, maybe in that sense it's worth doing and thinking about. What exactly am I trying to say? I want to say that the real world and Croatia are changing over a period and that something that was worth it before is not worth it today. Let's just say when I was in college, at my university, there couldn't have been an extraordinary study at all, and there was no way that college could have studied at all. When there's even this big escalation of extraordinary study, it was created the moment we decided as much, that as many people have completed colleges as possible. And then, as someone said earlier, certain individuals were created, higher education institutions and no matter what we call them, where not even a regular study is possible, but only an extraordinary study, a particular college and certain knowledge is possible. And I, in principle, think it's good, that it's good that people have the opportunity to get an education, to continue education and become an individual expert study, it can only be progress. Equally, when the extraordinary study also started, I can speak, of course and speak from the experience of my children who, once again, have passed that path, which means even enrolment in college and study, let's say for the law school in Zagreb, but when you have a rank list, then up to one line is regular, above that line an extraordinary study. They want, and they didn't have enough points, or according to the criteria of law school, they can only study it extraordinarily. So the extraordinary study is no longer exclusively related to work and therefore it's good that we put extraordinary students in that category. However, there are other matters that need to be taken care of. This law is not allowed and does not have to be watched and simply cannot be seen separately. The success of this law needs to be changed by some other laws, otherwise the result will not be seen. What was the problem with student contracts before and now? Actually, the problem was that there were a number of employers who said find me a student, so I'll pay you for the things you do part-time for me through a student service. It was before and now and it's a matter that control can do. But we also decide in a series of things to define the law, but we put our foot in the door immediately. So when you have on the other hand the provision that 15,000 kuna is a limit that is tax relief to a parent if he has a student is certainly something that needs to be changed because you're spinning around in a vicious circle. So someone started to study, perhaps because of a situation at home that his family did not study regularly, studying outstandingly, he will now be able to work. But if he does more to his parent, it will no longer be a tax relief. We should really decide at some point what we want, whether we want to encourage a study, whether we want to have as many higher education personnel as possible, and if we want to, then we need to change a series of laws in that sense. Similarly, these 60,600 kunas that were, were also in the debate and I remember well when the tax system was so let's decide what we want because what life experience taught me will always be, whoever wants to work will be a good student and will. The one who won't work will neither work nor the student nor anything else. Likewise, it taught me that some students work because they have to, others because they want something more because parents can't make it possible for them to receive, and third because they want to prepare themselves for the real world, for the world of work. My experience with my own child was that part of the work and part of the educational work, so he studied in Zagreb has an advantage over someone else because he studied at home, and this is different compared to our home budget, he has a allowance, but everything he makes through a student service, which makes three times about each kuna thinks about. Not the allowance, and this rabbit thinks about it. I don't think it's a method, but it's absolutely in one sense good. And we have another one of these laws, the laws that need to be changed, need to be looked at in another additional context. At this point, we have a terrible problem with the workforce that is related to certain jobs and to certain time periods. These jobs are especially in the summer, it is about occasional OPGs or agriculture related to picking certain agricultural products and we have jobs related to tourism. Let's hear what the tourist workers are saying, they're already speaking loudly and screaming from all the headlines of the portal we don't have labour, we don't have maids, we don't have auxiliary labour in the kitchens, we don't have a waiter, so they're screaming. Equally, when you look at the OPGs, they say, we have no one left to pick raspberries, to pick strawberries, and I don't know everyone else so I don't leave anyone out or put on too much. There long ago when I was in college we went mass in England to read strawberries, it was for relatively small money, I don't even remember how it was regulated anymore, but you had a chance to learn English that way and you did something over the summer. The same way you can't look today when anyone wants to do the O.P.G. or... I'm gonna get no one's production. So here we have the possibility that students in the summer when the break is, between summer and autumn deadlines that are slightly different today than they were before we hired them, but that should be made possible by all and other regulations. What am I saying? This law is one of the laws that regulates it in a certain way, gives opportunity and absolutely needs to demystify this extraordinary study and say what it is, so it is that this is no longer a basic study with work and a number of other things, but it also needs a number of other measures. This law is not an island, it must not be seen like this, it should be seen in the context of all other laws specifically related to tax policy in a way that allows students to work, to do as much as possible, and no one should be afraid that the student will take his job. At this point, believe in Croatia has especially when it comes to the occasional business of tourism, related to the agriculture of places for all. But what we must do, we must also enable them to amend other laws and adapt other laws because if it remains only this law will not be enough. I asked one question on the board among other things, and I asked why the middleman had only decided that it could be a student centre or a student centre, so a student centre, then I was told that there was a thought that intermediaries might be someone else, but that we were a little afraid that it might then open up some kind of problem. I don't understand what we're afraid of and I won't understand it. We all the time and when we decide to take a step and when you decide to do something then stop or step back or someone puts their foot in your door. We're afraid all the time, and there's some kind of fear that someone's gonna work, that someone's gonna make money, that someone's gonna move forward. Well, we have to fight for it. I don't understand that we're afraid of it, but we have to fight for it, fight for people to be as good as possible, to be as successful as possible, to make the best of it. When someone makes money in Croatia and pays taxes, these taxes don't allow us to go beyond that, there have never been 151 of us, but therefore all services get paid. But then you can also run some other things, then you can also enable them and students actually a certain way easier to study and more. At this point I'm afraid that a lot of our studies and a lot of our higher schools educate people and that we educate people from our budget for other countries. So people with us are educated, education from our budget all taxpayers and pay for it, especially when it's even colorful, I wanted to tie to health and medicine, but it's colorful, people when they graduate don't even have a day's work experience going out in Croatia. Of course, somewhere someone can pay him a lot more because he's put a zero into it so far, he hasn't invested anything and we've invested something. So this law is absolutely good that we no longer have a rule but we have a law but this law should look at only one puzzle in that big puzzle. If we're going to do something, then we need to make a stronger step. We need to make a bold decision about taxes, really reduce our limits, and we need to stop being afraid that someone will earn something. First of all, let's allow people to earn and secondly no one takes his job, the jobs have a lot of and student work really needs to look at the context so that students can make a profit so that they can study, get some work experience and some experience they need for the real sector and for the real world and let's do another reading one step, put some even more liberal options there that really students work and that they don't have to hear anymore I'm past my limit, so whether you have you, so give me this because it actually opens up a gray zone at the same time and it's not good to be in the gray zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86503	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished colleagues from the ministry. Thus, in January of last year, the Ministry of Finance passed a income tax regulation that significantly reduced the untaxable amount students can earn through a student contract from 50,000 to 15 thousand kuna. The disfavor was great, the government brought a small change and brought the 15 thousand kuna together with an annual personal deduction and promised student representatives the Law on Student and Student Work. They gave the task force a deadline until June to present the bill. In the process of making which ended with the first draft in the last quarter, student work turned out and they actually fully devoted themselves to student work. In fact, the draft did not touch these amounts at all, for which students were initially protesting and protesting. The focus of the law has shifted to working conditions, to protecting students, to defining the relationship between SC, employers and students who were actually regulated by the '96 rule. A year. Meanwhile, an extraordinary student who is also one of the members of the student assembly has launched a petition to give the right to work on extraordinary students under a student contract, I think, and this petition has raised 7,000 signatures. Also a student for which he had long sought the funds he could manage, he took advantage of the opportunity and insisted that the student assembly manage part of the money from the student work that SC received. Afterwards, high-school representatives took advantage of the opportunity to put in provisions allowing each higher school to intervene or perform the SC function so that they could earn money on their students rather than on SC. Out of fear that this leads to the privatisation of SC under quotes, high conditions have been laid down to carry out such an activity. Then the unions that insisted on protecting labour markets and preventing the abuse of student contracts by employers also had something to say. And actually now, a year and a half after these non-taxable amounts that students could earn are reduced we have a law that is in principle not touched at all by this cause of dissatisfaction but devoured by different interests, different interest groups where, of course, I speak neutrally without some negative connotation, the stakeholders are quite legitimate. Thus, we consider this law to have some positive change, such as the definition of a minimum captainate and a clearer protection of students. However, given that we have a lot of objections to this law, I can announce that in our first reading, we as the SDP Representatives Club will be restrained. Six are the main points on which we can actually make our comments at this stage because they are not yet amendments. The first question is the selection of the student centre, the second question is what we might actually call a student assembly commission, the third question is the status of extraordinary students, the question of setting minimum wages, then formalising the system of monitoring student work as a work experience, and ultimately we have one proposal here we are actually presenting for discussion, which is the question of opening the possibility of a student centre to issue an optional application to justify the absence of students from one day of teaching in the current semester if that month has worked more than 60 hours on jobs for which they are educated. So we could call it a justification for the absence but under the conditions that I have stated. And as far as our first point is concerned, it's a question of defining the intermediary, or SC. So right now, the situation is that the SCs own for all students in one geographical area, so for example. in Zagreb Zagreb The Zagreb Student Centre provides for all students of the University of Zagreb, but also for students at other higher schools such as the Technical College or VERN. Mostly the restrictions for which SC can perform the mediation does not exist, it only matters that the person is in student status. However, the founders of student centres actually bear all responsibility for their business, the founder of SC is mostly one high school in one geographical area, in fact although the situation such SC conducts mediation for students of all higher schools. And then we have two species we could say illogical or not proportionate situations. The first is a situation where higher universities that are not the founders of SC have no obligation or responsibility towards SC business, although their students are users of SC services, thus adding this to their values. Higher education students who are not the founders of SC receive the same service as students of that higher school is the founder and so that not founding higher schools actually do not participate in the financing of SC, so that effectively their students have the right to a free service we could say, it is a kind of irregularity. Another kind of unfair situation stems from the fact that the high school established by SC has the authority over SC and is responsible for its business, as well as those funds collected from all students, so those who are not students of the higher education that the founder is. So these higher schools, even though funds are being taken from them, do not have the right to vote from their students on how these funds will be exploited. So I think it's clear here that these are very logical objections to this sort of arrangement of the situation. And the solution can go in two directions, the first is that every high school has its SC, the second is to determine one SC in which in one geographical area the founders would be all high schools in that area and then of course also take care of all students and have something to say about how money will be spent. We believe that this latter solution would be much better for the reason that several of this solution with several student centres in one local community would lead to higher unit costs of business, which would ultimately make services more expensive for end-users, such as employers and students. We believe that a solution with a student centre would lead to a volume economy where all students, regardless of high school, would have access to its services, and employers would have a simpler and cheaper job offer. Such a solution would, however, require that the right to vote to those higher universities, in fact, all the higher universities that operate in that community and then ensure equal care for needs and all the higher schools on one hand and students. Of course, it would be mandatory then to prescribe the same so that those higher schools are concerned and are responsible for the local SC. The next item is a question of what we might call a student assembly commission. Therefore, the new law proposes to increase the commission for intervention by 0.5% of those assets as well as all the funds achieved by the usual fee of 12% belong to SC or the intermediary. The funds of these 12% should be used to settle the costs of intermediation and improvement of student standards, so that revenue from compensation is used to improve student accommodation activities, student nutrition, cultural and sports activities, etc. The decision to locate these funds is on SC, on the mediator. However, for funding achieved by 0.5% must be used in terms of funding these as we said cultural, sports, scientific, educational activities conducted exclusively by students and student organisations, and are exclusively intended for students. Now, the decision to locate these funds is being made by a committee composed of three representatives of the High School Student Assembly and two representatives of the mediators. So effectively, given that they have a majority in the commission, these funds are managed by the Student Assembly. So we could call that 0.5% student commission because of the fact. The problem here lies in what I stated earlier, the responsibility for the funds has an intermediary, and they do not have representatives of students, and effective representatives of students make a decision on how the funds will be handled. So to cut short, given that time is slightly and limited, again without any negative connotation, the increase in funding for student standard would certainly contribute to better development, but there is room for major irregularities here. If we are at risk of being awarded the same funds by those who are investigating tenders for the award of those funds, I think we're implying anything bad about anyone we know is one gray zone that's not good for anyone. The solution to this, we see, is that responsibility for the overall operation of SC and the development of student standards should be made possible to the representatives of students. So don't put them in one committee where we look through your fingers like that, so you do whatever you want with that money, but you have to be responsible for the distribution of the funds, you have to decide on it, but here's your proportional responsibility for it, so that's what we would suggest here. The next comment is technical and is related to minimum wage. So every year, the government adopts a minimum wage regulation at the end of the year under the minimum wage law. The regulation is mainly adopted in December of the current year, which refers to the following year. Under the proposal for this law, the ILO should adopt a regulation on minimum student captainships in November of the current year, also for the next year, before the Government adopts a minimum wage regulation. So our proposal would actually be just to change this into a law and to adopt it after the government has already passed a minimum wage provision for the current year. So I think it's an entirely logical proposal. And here we come to extraordinary students. Again, I'm going to cut short with the introduction, we have about 40 thousand extraordinary students versus a hundred thousand regulars. The logic is that exceptional students have the right to work because their study is not primarily what they do, and thus are considered economically active persons, regular students are considered economically inactive, but work here and comes as something to support their primary activity, which is study. Now according to the bill, all outstanding students are given the right to work through a student contract, this type of contract is both more flexible and cheaper under quotes for students compared to work contracts and while flexibility can be tempting to some students, the labour contract provides certain security and is better for students and the state, because full contributions are actually charged from this aspect. The latest contributions, i.e. the latest incentives for youth employment, should be taken into account here. The contract for work for a young person is not paid on salary, which is why only 20% of the salary plus taxes are allocated, which is not a big difference compared to the student contract on which 17.5% of the commission and salary contributions are allocated. In both ways, a young person is given access to the labour market under more favourable conditions for the employer because the state gives up the work of its income in exchange for training a young person and I think it is very good. This measure probably wanted to jump into the problem of extracurricular students who had no intention of making work contracts. In any case, this measure will benefit these very persons. However, there is the possibility of abuse of these contracts by the employer cancelling the contract on the work of an extraordinary student and forcing him to continue working with the student contract, but generally avoiding the giving of work contracts when an extraordinary student is available student contract, which can actually result in longer work on a student contract in addition to the right to an employment contract. This is what we consider to increase the quality of student work, such a measure. What we would like to propose here is quite concrete, apart from redefining the status of extraordinary students, but this is not the substance of this law, is that working through a student contract is allowed to extracurricular students, but for three months with one employer, then giving the employer an obligation to offer a contract on the work of such a person, whether on a specific or indefinite basis. The difference, as we have said, is not great and we believe that this way there would be no danger for extraordinary students to work on a student contract in addition to the right to a job contract, we simply think it would be safer that way. And here's to the end, we suggest that in some way start formalizing the system of monitoring student work as a work experience because it doesn't seem right now. And especially now that we have this measure of extraordinary students, we think that this would be important. I think we've made constructive comments, I say we'll be held back in our first reading and hopefully in the second reading we'll get a feedback from you that will allow us to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86505	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to individual debates and the first to appear is Honored Representative Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86506	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. How much we have devoted in the last 22 years to doing student work, the fact that the same work is regulated by the 1996 Regulation has a total of 2 pages and 14 articles. And that's why the students have been telling me for years that a new law is necessary, they have personally contacted me several times when they're going to make their move, when they're coming to the government, when they're coming to the Parliament. They did it because it matters to them, it matters to them 17 000 and more to them than there are at the University of Osijek, it matters to them 150 000 as many as there are in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm extremely glad that this government of the Republic of Croatia and your ministry went into the regulation of student affairs through this bill of law. I'm glad that it's important to me as well as to a student who's done a lot of student work himself, and I'm very aware of the problems students have. The law on the performance of student jobs is important because 150 000 who were not equal so far, almost 50,000 exceptional students had no right to subsidized housing, no food, no transportation, and they did not seek privileges, they paid their fees neatly and wanted work rights to earn their own expenses for all the costs of student life. These are all young people whose future should be important to us all and should be our priority. Statistics on this matter are deadly and show that over a billion kunas will be paid annually through student contracts, and that same student contract was regulated by the regulation on literally two sides. The changes made by this law, and there are many, I would point out some. As I have already said, it puts all high school students in one equal position, and all those students who are not in employment will, by the power of this law, have a chance for student work. This law clearly defines the obligations of the intermediary and the contracting authority, and perhaps even more importantly that the proposal for this law prescribes inspection supervision of law enforcement, as well as infringement provisions as a means of guaranteeing that this law will apply exclusively to the benefit of all participants. Voting this law will not be possible for a student who spends his time on a study, who does not get paid for the same job, the duty of mediators to this law, to be paid within 15 days from handing over the contract to a student, the funds that, if I have calculated correctly, must not be less than 21 kn, which is a minimum fee for their work. As a youth HDZ in its programme in the past elections, which we have just called "choose a better future", we have mentioned and highlighted the importance of digitising the system in the Republic of Croatia, so I am pleased that our idea in some way lives in new laws, as well as in this, where conditions and ways of concluding the contract are defined, from which students will literally share several mouse clicks, and before that it seemed to be in a way that first comes for the contract, goes to the employer and returns to SC to earn some funds. And another important thing about digitizing the system is that we will get a more transparent insight into November's affairs. It has been mentioned today and there have been a lot of criticism that this bill, which allows more students to work, will thus endanger the situation on the labour market. I personally believe you won't, and we have one provision, which says you can't hire a student at work if you're within six months. for the same job for business reasons, the worker fired. It is important to stress that the Law on the conduct of student work will not endanger either the labour market, nor existing measures, such as traineeship and such as measures to promote self-employment. Student work for students is extremely important, study costs, accommodation, everyday life are really great and I am glad to have the opportunity to participate in the adoption of this comprehensive and quality legislative proposal, which I am, I am sure, ultimately, acceptable to all stakeholders. He would congratulate his colleagues from the Croatian Student Assembly and their president who usually come from the University of Osijek on active participation in non-resistance and the fact that, today, we are discussing this law in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86507	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86508	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned your colleague Mikulić's incomes and all the rights that students at the moment do not particularly enjoy because they are unable to use the right to student work. But we must stress that these revenues, which the student centre will receive, which I hope will be bigger in the adoption of this law, do not go, only correctly for student projects, go for the development of capacities, certain campuses, go for the development of student nutrition, for student accommodation, all that is lacking in our universities. We know that the University of Split, completes its campus, that all capacities, as far as it's developed, no matter how many new buildings and capacities we have, it's not completely over yet. But, we know, specifically in your example, as far as the University of Osijek is concerned, that the campus is in development and that it is just arriving from the November center and from this fee, which must be invested in the November standard, will improve into the councils of study, at all our universities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86509	The answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86510	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bačić, you are absolutely right and indeed, this money goes to the development of the university, and it has been mentioned today and this 0.5% provision that I really consider to be good and achieves one fund for student cause, which as a roof representation body of students, I believe that it can best dispose of that money and invest in what students need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86511	The next replica of the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86512	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I would briefly just refer to that part of your debate, in which you spoke about giving, which I now, of course, support, giving the opportunity to work, which is the greater number of students by this move by expanding, therefore, the equalization of rights, regular and extraordinary students. And she would certainly have preferred your reflection if the students hadn't put the labour market at risk. Of course there are concerns that this might happen, I don't think you should be afraid of students. It is precisely because the work of these law students is not limited, but there are mechanisms. So up to 15000 amounts after which the relief for parents is lifted, and the profits of more than 60600 kn are once again withdrawn, put into another tax regime. So I think they're good control mechanisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86513	Thank you, the answer of the respected MP Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86514	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear MPs Bedeković, I absolutely agree with you, there are mechanisms, there are reliefs to a certain amount, and would only point out that the price of work that should amount to around 20 kn is practically equal to the price of an ordinary worker. So personally, I think that the labour market with this bill is definitely not going to break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86515	The next will be its individual debate, presented by respected representative Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respect for State Secretary Mrs. Ramljak and her associates and, of course, I would like to join in welcoming the representatives of the student assembly. Here, if time allows, first, I'll give some general consideration and my view of the law, and then some details. I believe that when we look at this proposal of the Law on Student Affairs in general in global terms, I believe that it primarily allows for the adjustment of the time in which we live, because, as has already been said, student affairs and the conduct of student affairs, so far have been regulated by a small rule, dating from 1996 to some changes over the years, and I think it is simply the time to dedicate special laws to student affairs, in order to regulate them in the best possible way and also to achieve flexibility through the law, primarily through taking into account the nature and composition of the student population today compared to some years ago. Someone mentioned, so 22 years of practice and applying the rules are behind us. I'll just remind you, when we talk about the status of our students, during those 22 years, except for the status of regular students, at some point we had students who studied for our personal needs, it was mostly those students who failed to take up positions on the ranking lists in a way that they could study for free, or study with the support of the state. And later on, we still have a category of extracurricular students, and this category of students for personal needs is gone. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of extracurricular students, and in this population, if I am well informed, there are some 16,000 extracurricular students who are not working, who are paying their tuition, and that is one population to which due attention should be paid. I think again, someone has already said this, this law is not here to solve the problem of extraordinary students, nor will it solve them, nor is it intended for them. The fundamental law which will solve and which should address the problem of differentiating the status of rights and responsibilities of regular and extraordinary students is the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity which, as stated in the plan by the end of this year, and this Law on Student Affairs should first and foremost regulate the issue of student affairs and therefore only briefly some of the key points that I consider important to this law. First of all, I have already said, equating the rights of regular and extraordinary students related to the possibility, giving the possibility of doing student jobs, and those who are not, extraordinary students who are not in a working relationship, who are not owners of crafts or who do not carry out the activities of free professions or activities in agriculture and forestry, and I consider that once again, someone has mentioned it, and I will stress and add one important social and demographic dimension above all because of the fact that some of our students, especially those who are in the category of extraordinary students and are not able, their parents are not able to fully cover the costs of both the tuition and the living and the student standard, so I think that it is very important to mention the giving of space, therefore, that part of the population, in addition to studying and earning for their own life, because of course the demographic dimension is tied up, which continues to this social standard. And what I have a special need is to further highlight this pedagogical dimension of such provisions, because of the fact that I think it is necessary for young people to encourage working habits, including through student work, in order to acquire and obtain a culture of work that I think needs to be developed in these Croatian spaces, so that more in Article 6(3), I find a very important provision that allows students working on student jobs to prove work experience gained on student jobs later when they need to get into a permanent working relationship. Of course, key points are the introduction of records on the performance of student affairs related to the obligations of the broker on keeping records and on the contracting authorities, contractors, contracted contracts, the level of compensation, etc. Of course, a very important point of regulation of the conditions for the implementation of the intervention, I find it very positive to introduce this regulation concerning, I would also call it a relicence every 5 years, therefore related to intermediaries. And what I find very important to protect students' rights, it's a regulation of inspection supervision that wasn't regulated by the current regulation. In fact, not only do I believe that the protection of students is being achieved, but it also reduces and avoids this area of gray zones that we have so far, especially that part of the abuse of student contracts. Of course, so far there have been questions about the allocation of 0.5% of the performer's fee, i.e. intermediaries who need to be used for purpose purposes to finance cultural, sports and all other student activities, we can discuss, we can discuss whether that's enough height, if we can raise it up a little bit, so maybe there's an open question. What I find positive is the provision of Article 13(3) relating to the payment of a fee of 50%, therefore, of higher students working on holidays working on night shifts. And what may have remained an open question, and most of the speakers so far have mentioned, the question of defining, or redefineing the work of students as part of the occasional, or temporary work and the question of defining the extraordinary, very status of extraordinary and regular students, I said at the outset, this law is not a fundamental law to be solved, but of course I agree with colleagues who pointed out that this law should not be seen as an island, but should be observed in connection with other laws that are attached to it. And the same open question that should naturally be discussed thoroughly until the final version, so until the second reading, is about limiting the number of working hours of students in the employer, thus limiting the number of working hours per day, weekly, monthly and annual levels. I kind of feel that I'm not in favour of constraint, and I don't think there's any need to limit any work for students, I repeat, I don't need to be afraid of students because I think there's room for everyone on the labour market, I don't think students will compromise or destabilise our labour market. And as for limiting the number of working hours and the amount of student jobs, again I return to that mechanism that I mentioned earlier when I replicated my colleagues, so in terms of financial earnings, there are the mechanisms of 15 000 kunas of up to 15 000 kunas, the removal of the relief of parents, and also these 60 600 kunas after which it passes into another tax regime, which I think is a very good mechanism for both students and employers to regulate and choose for themselves how they will regulate their status when it comes to student affairs. Once again, my respect for all student representatives and the desire to work harder on the market and to gain a culture of work that I think our young people need to develop and support as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86517	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic, we have several replicas. Dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic only two short things. First, I wanted to ask you for a source for this information about 16,000 extras that don't work, so if you can tell me, just because I didn't run into the data, and I'd like to take a look. And secondly, just as some general commentary, I think it's very important to say that we should not, through the financial dimension, observe the demographic aspect, my friend's brother, my boy's study of medicine, he's very good, and besides, he's also a athlete, he hasn't even graduated from medicine yet, but he's offered a pre-contract from Germany that on the day he graduates he goes there for a starting salary of 5500 euros, so no specialization, without one day's internship. So I don't think it's just a matter of money and we can't think that we're just gonna keep money in this country. All that, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86519	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Answer, colleague Bedekovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86520	Thank you very much. The number of 16 000 exceptional students in the total number that do not work is data from the Ministry of Science and Education. This second part about the demographic dimension, so we don't have to look at it just through finance and money, I absolutely agree and support it, so it's just one segment, that's where we understand each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86521	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86522	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Bedekovic. You are in your presentation, and now you have once again confirmed another dimension of the importance of student work. The importance of working at a time when you are studying, that is, through this study process so that you can really get involved in the labour market, in order to participate in this process and through the study at all. There are some studies where it is an obligation for students to work even for the whole semester, they can't go on until they do something, but they don't have it in all colleges, and that's why it's extremely important and that's why it's important that we have a law like this. But absolutely, I also said this in the presentation and it should be emphasized, this law is just one small puzzle or it should not be seen separately from the other and it is priority and if we want the results of this law to have, change other laws, of course, mainly financial, or tax policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86523	I thank my colleague, Dark-Taritash. Here's my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86524	So the inclusion of students in the market through student jobs is very much what you have mentioned, so some study, and I would like to make them as much as possible through student practice immediately including in the labour market, and what practice has so far shown that those students who are also part of their practice, and also part of the student jobs that were carried out up to this law, have done with the employer in a quality way, a good part of them had a priority later in the employment of the same employer. So it seems to me that this is a good way to get a job experience, and the more this law clearly requires that a student has the right and has to ask for confirmation and has to get confirmation from the subject he was working on to prove his work experience. Of course, this law is not an island and should be observed in the context of all others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86525	I thank my esteemed colleague Bedekovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedeković mentioned exactly this number of 16 000 unemployed extracurricular students and how this would be an additional possibility for them to at least occasionally work and occasionally work, but we must once again point out that of those 16 000 extraordinary students was not only an option because they did not, they became extraordinary because they could not regularly enter. There are a large number of study programs at our universities that offer exclusive study in an extraordinary option. So it was not possible for them to study regularly at all, and it should be pointed out, not to blame them, but to give them as many student rights as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86527	Thank you. The answer of a esteemed colleague, nothing. Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bedekovic, if I understand you correctly, you said that this law brings among other things and monitors student work as a working experience. That student work will be monitored, or recognised as a work experience? If that's what you said. I don't know where you found it in the law, I think I'd like it if that's what it was like, and our youth forum's comment on a public debate in that direction is going to be our amendment in the second reading. It would be good if the student work, which at no time is now actually not formalized through the watch tracking system as a working experience, about which the confirmation would eventually be issued by the employer, and it could serve as evidence in certain jobs and hours, and thus enter into the work experience. Not of course an internship, but in order to achieve this and to make it look that way, we would have to amend Article 6(3) of the Law. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86529	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glasovac, the reply, dear colleague Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86530	Yes, so, Art. Paragraph 6 3 of the Intermediaries shall issue a certificate to the performer on his request for all the interventions he has made for him, and for the purpose of proof of the activities carried out in November and acquired experience on the same. So for the sake of clarity until the second reading, we can add this item to further work, but here I am reading the possibility of proof of work experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86531	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It has this law of some good sides, it is good to increase the minimum student working hours, i.e., that it is aligned with the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia. It is good that some rules of good practice apply to students and student work, which apply to all working relationships regardless of what kind of contracts are involved, which is that 50% more is paid overtime, nights work, work holidays, holidays, etc., etc. It's some kind of civilization achievement, where you don't actually need to make the difference between work and work, regardless of that job someone as a student or as an adult who doesn't have student status. It is also good that as for workers, unfortunately, many of the workers, regardless of what the law guarantees them, will continue to deny them the right to do so, but here, as stated in the law, it is good that students, for student work, will be paid both travel expenses and compensation for a warm meal. It is also good that we send a certain message to employers who will engage in a violation of this law, we prescribe a very strict penalty of £100,000. Maybe it's a good thing we're evening out extraordinary and regular students. In terms of the right to intervene in employment and to consume the right to student work. I'm saying, maybe, because I'm not sure, I'll talk about it later. There are positive sides, but there is also room for possible abuses. I don't think you've protected yourself enough, not yourself, but extraordinary students, through these amendments and the addition of the law. Although I don't think our employers are enemies, I think they are partners, but we know what happened and with one good measure of professional training without establishing a working relationship, where we, smartly, at the moment we opened funds for the withdrawal of funds, decided to use it for young people, that if we can't already hire them, for a certain or indefinite time, to allow them to enter the labour market, to get into the labour market, to gain some experience and to pass their professional exams. However, after a year and a half, the application of a good and noble measure where as many as 60% of these young people, who entered the labour market as a professional training without establishing a working relationship, succeeded in establishing contracts and working relationships and indefinitely. We have seen that some employers, unfortunately, always have employers and employers, have started to abuse it, and today we are turning to some new mechanisms. I would hate for this space to be opened to extraordinary students and the possibility of student work, which we had the opportunity to hear from colleagues Bedeković is more than 60%. So 16000 of those who don't work, so we're going into the assumption that then there are 23,000 of those students who are still working, who are at some point now on the labour market and they're on some kind of contracts. Contracts to a certain or indefinite time. And now we're going to put them in a position to actually put an instrument in our employers' hands, to put these students, if this information is correct, in a position that employers can translate them out of a contract to work on student contracts, because that's how it's worth it. It is easier to pay 17.5% of fees on a student contract than to pay a little more than 20% of taxes and contributions to contracts. Clearly, student contracts are more expensive. That's what we have to look at to open up space to extraordinary students, they're asking for it, 7,000 of them signed a petition, we have to respect that, but we need to protect them maximumly so they don't run them off with this law. And to be exploited by labour, which should actually be valued on the labour market in a completely different way. Secondly, I don't see how through this law we've found a way to prevent a phenomenon that's been showing up for over two decades, and that's that a lot of seasonal workers, the ones who make employers, come on, come on, come on, find me a student, to pay you a salary through his student contract. So not the person who works, but for the third person, means the abuse of student contracts, by third parties as an agreed informal agreement between the person whose life depends on what kind of salary and the employer to whom it is cheaper to pay that seasonal worker through an imaginary man or a man who exists but who did not do the job for him, through SC. I don't see a solution in this bill of yours. Just as you avoided answering the question, the question of all questions, why did you deny tax reform the rights of students? You know what I mean and that's why you ended up going into the amendments and additions of this law, which is why you remember in the 3rd month of 2017 you had to start an emergency task force to calm the students, even though there was a lot of help from the Student Assembly trying to bridge and bridge it between you and the students, but they couldn't finally protect the government and the ministry anymore, so they had to work in the interests of the students at the time, so you were forced to form a working group that would solve the injustice done to the students you had done to them with tax reform. Okay, that may not be settled by this law, but where's your finance minister? I didn't see that the law came to the bench here that anything had changed any regulations, no law that anything had changed on those rights that you denied them, and that's why you went to the amendments to this law, which is why you called the representatives of the Student Assembly into it, etc., etc. Answer me that question, no matter what nice thing you present here, the power to do extraordinary, we will pay them 21.49 kuna minimum hour, flowers will bloom after tomorrow for all students in Croatia after this law, nothing before us has worked, we are reformers, revolutionary reformers. But I ask you, where is the correction of injustice through tax reform? What you're not the same, it's hot potatoes, student work. Students are even more sensitive and vulnerable than students. When are you going to solve this? There's no time, he's a student today, his education lasts, we know how many years, tomorrow he's not. You didn't protect his rights, you missed it, and you promised to do it. I can also quote your secretary's statements where it was designated. And one more thing, here through this law I have a feeling such a small click she sat down and divided the spoils, a billion kuna prey turns annually on fees from student work. And they sat down at the ministry, high school, and the student assembly, and they made a deal. Okay, high school, you've never existed in this whole story before, and now we're gonna give you a piece of the cake. I don't mind it, but it's not done in this way, it's done in a complete change of perception, by introducing no parceling that you're going to give every high school to have its SC, but to make one serious SC as an institution of state-owned employment mediator, but in its management include all high schools and students. Then share the money, take the rights, but first share the responsibility. You didn't do it through the bill, and I'm asking you to do it until the second reading. A billion kuna is not a small amount of money, and it needs to be looked after, that's the money our students have worked for, that they've earned, and that's what they should benefit the most from. And the question is how many students because, uh, one or some of the founders know their real needs and how much they work in the interest of themselves, and how much in the interest of others. I'm just going to remind you that because of 2018, he's assigned money to his former president. If it's not a conflict of interest, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86533	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. We have several replicas, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86534	Thank you very much. Comrade Glasovac, you have touched tax reform and I want to point out that in preparation for this law I have met with several students from Rijeka who have also told me about it. And I want to highlight one piece of information here, in which the source of admission of students points to the problem of fairness of access to higher education. So the Eurostudent National Report states that the main financiers of their family's Croatian students are 82% of students, saying that they are supported by the family and that is about 46% of the total income. This in itself is not controversial, but if parents are highly educated it is 51%, and if they are only 28% from primary school. And now you have a student who thanks to excellence, and his parents only graduated from primary school received a scholarship and he stopped being a tax relief for his parents who otherwise find it difficult to make ends meet. So it's an injustice that has to be changed urgently and scholarships are not allowed to enter as a profit into something that burdens parents' tax relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86535	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Answer from my colleague, Voter. No, thank you very much. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86536	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No, colleague Voter would just like to highlight something you said, so of course we must not treat our employers as enemies and they certainly are not. He thinks that, as well as much in Croatia, the potential for manipulating student contracts and labour contracts stems from a space that is therefore open to a situation of mistrust in institutions, in a situation of general misery in society which is material, which is moral. Of course, there is this lack of solidarity that is then evident in that sometimes one who has a position of power sometimes abuses it by counting on it to be better for him. But the solution to that is precisely to ensure a better climate in general, no, and it was only necessary to underline this comment that employers should certainly not be treated as opponents...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86537	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Answer from my colleague, Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86538	A colleague, Glaveshevic, should only be provided, the fuses should be placed. So students should be adequately encouraged to work with study, it's multiple useful for them, not only financially, but even much more experienced. Second, they should be adequately paid, which even by this law is being resolved in relation to all the conditions so far. They should be recognised as a gainful work experience, but formalise both monitoring and evaluation. The third should enable them to justify the absence that you, on behalf of the club, have also shown that in fact student centres issue an application for those who worked more than 60 hours that month, to free them from one day of teaching, etc., etc. It's just that this law is more about sharing money between a student center, or a university and a student choir, than it is about some things that have not been solved yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86539	I thank my esteemed colleague, Voter, for your reply. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86540	Thank you very much. My colleague, that part of your debate would look back on, I would refer to that part of your debate where you talked about the abuse of student contracts by third parties, and I agree with you that it is true, our practice shows that it is indeed one big gray zone that revolves around about a billion kunas a year and where there are things happening, where there is correct and fair student work, real student work, but there is also a situation where student contracts are sold and manipulated with them, not only in the season, but also in other jobs. But I would not agree that this law still did not try, some solutions to make that leap, above all through the provisions that introduce the keeping of records of the contracting authorities, performers, contracted, fee heights, etc. And the part that regulates the conduct of inspection controls that we have never had before in any regulation, so in this rule that we have experienced different resuscitations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86541	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86542	I'm sorry, colleague Bedekovic, but I don't see that Article 6 will solve this problem. We are now asking the Ministry or the student centres or inspections involved, out of these billions of kunas, if they've ever checked whether these are fictitious or real contracts, I'm not sure we'd get an answer to that question. Yeah, I don't really believe it, so tomorrow it'll shine the sun and prevent all abuse. I'd love to, but I'm not sure. So here you need to make sure that students who work, that they are protected maximum, but that even to protect them from the abuse of their rights by third parties who have nothing to do with student status, even exceptional, and I don't see that being solved, even until the second reading, better solutions need to be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86543	I thank my esteemed colleague Sabina the Voice. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for saying hello to the secretary of state. Well, here's the biggest opponents of this bill we see, what we got from our emails, and here's the debate of our opponents is an independent union, and here's our colleagues from the opposition, and I'm sorry that we're using words like "separation," "communication commission," "exploitation of students," because I think and you said on behalf of the club when you said you wouldn't even support this proposal, I'm not talking about a fellow Bojan, not for you, it was a formulation, so I'm sorry because you say there's no order, there's no control. So is the '96 rule check a rule book?? And it's not good to pass a new law. I think that the adoption of this bill and everything that is determined by the documentation, from the entire record to be conducted by the ministry, from openness to the labour inspectorate and all other services that will now be able to control this system, all this brings transparency and better business of student centres and all these collection fees related to student jobs. As for these billions of kunas, you say some division of prey to which it will, I'm more interested than these billions of kunas in what is invested in student standards? Because it only invests in the rehabilitation of individual student centres, because it only invests in the salaries of certain student centres or invests in the student standard? How many homes, how many monks, how many restaurants, how many cafes have been opened since these billions of kunas? But now we'll know. Because now every student centre has an obligation to report to the ministry and we'll see every contract that's been made, we'll see every user, we'll see every client, and then we'll be able to draw conclusions and put in order if what you're saying isn't in the student centres of order by now. As far as this law itself is concerned, there's been a lot of controversy about whether he's going to equate a working relationship somehow, whether he's going to allow employers to exploit students and use them for regular business activities, I think in this letter of independent unions we've just received some criticism and instructions on that account. I don't think it's going to come to that, the burden of students themselves on Bologna we know that 8 hours is over when we count both learning and all the activities they have on a given day. We have to go back to the fact that they're extraordinary students, they study at work, so they're doing their job, why don't we let them have this opportunity? How I came from the Split Student Centre alone so that in this debate alone I will refer to the data of the Split student centre which I think is the best and most reference point because it is one of the most successful students and I think its statistics shows the best precisely for these seasonal jobs that are relevant and which are the main indicator of student work. The great fear and great criticism of this law was also your proposal to limit it to 3 months' work with the same employer, I think this statistic is disproved. So the highest percentage of students, so up to 70% of them work at most 4 months a year. The maximum number of students per student centre record works only a month a year. Someone who works 12 months, 11 or 10, it's 1%, 2%, 3% maximum. So this replacement tends that students will replace the worker definitely doesn't stand. Only 15% of students work for more than six months a year. As for students who work continuously with the same employer, 99% of students work with the same employer for only a month, so there is no substitute for the student. Only 12% of the students remained with the same employer for more than three months, and that's good information for union criticism or for criticism of you from the opposition. As for this concern that the same unions wrote in their memo, which is that they will be exploited, i.e. Students will study exclusively for November.Sends do not stand because we know what Bologna is, we know what studying in Bologna is, we know how much the conditions of Bologna have increased and that no more than twice can be entered into certain subjects, not even a certain year. So there can't be some kind of excessive exploitation of the very higher education system. There was a lot of mention of the legalization of the work itself, specifically by extraordinary students, that's true. Malversion was, we know it was done in other people's November agreements, students especially this large number of students who were unemployed normally had to cope in different ways, so there were also these abuses. But it is this very record, this very documentation, the keeping of documents, and everything that the Centers will have to contribute to the Ministry and to any inspectorate that requires it to come to a more transparent business, and we will reduce any form of malversion. The only flaw, i.e. A little criticism, what I started on behalf of the club, and now I'm going to elaborate a little bit, and I think that there are colleagues from the Croatian Stud.Subject agreeing and that they have a lot to advocate for it is precisely this condition of 1 ECTS point. So in Article 10(3), where intermediaries can intercede for a student enrolled in the current academic year who achieved at least 1 ECTS point in the previous year. I think we could change that, that we can even delete that item completely, and I think we're going to propose an amendment to that article because it's unnecessary to discriminate against a certain population of students who normally, these are young people who are 18 years old, who can quickly understand after a few months because for them or not. According to this mobility, we allow them to change their studies, to change their study programmes, why not, but then it discriminates against them. If after a year they enter another study programme even if it is regular, they can definitely do no student work for a year even though they are regular students. So it's a little problem that I think we can solve by the second reading. But regarding all of these observations at November.rad, for all the observations and unions and oppositions, I think by the statistics specifically of the Split Centre that I repeat is the most relevant because it has the most seasonal and can show the best sample of student jobs, when we see that most students do not work for more than 3 months, that most students are working exclusively for a month, that most students are doing exactly the summer when we are going to say between July 1st and September the start of the academic year, I think that these are all the reasons and that there are all the explanations that none of these criticisms on this law that we have received do not stand up until now and that there is no longer any concern or replacement of the students, nor that they will be able to take advantage of students because we have these provisions and misdemean and others, or certain criticisms that students will ignore their study programmes, that they will no longer learn, that they will no longer be devoted to work, that it will be primary for them, because they will be able to do so much of doing so. So most students only work one month, up to three months maximum, the rest of them that work all year, means more than six months, not to mention 9, 10, 11 or 12 months, that's literally not to say in doubt. That's 1.2 to 3% of students, and that's negligible. I think most students and most students and regular and extraordinary students of this law will be very helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86545	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86546	Comrade Bacic, you've told me a lot of things here that I've said. You didn't listen well, you didn't listen very carefully in class. So first of all, we are not against this bill, we have said that we will be restrained in the first reading, that we will present today all those remarks that we think should be even better, that there is room for improvement, that if we do not see it in the bill in the second reading, we will translate it into amendments and depending on how the Government of the Republic, or the Ministry, is going to set up, we will also vote for this law. Secondly, yes, we feel that we need to further protect students and we will insist that if a commission needs more than 12% to be available to students, but also more responsibility, to formalise the system of study monitoring.work as a working experience, to allow for the absence of students who work more than 60 hours a month, we will also insist that those students who work for more than 3 months with one employer are given a working contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86547	Thank you, dear fellow Voicer, I'd like you to watch your time. Answer, dear colleague Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86548	Thank you, fellow Voicer, when you're talking, I always listen very carefully, so that's how it was this time. I may apologize for this abstention or against, that's where I may have been partially mistaken, but we can't limit student work, not even for those 60 hours. If a student who is a good student, who wants to earn some money for a new academic year, who wants to pay maybe a scholarship or something, who will work exclusively for a month in the season. We can't limit him to any Captain, not a day or as long as he can in the day, because he's got that month, month... I repeat the statistics SC Split shows, he has these months when he has to earn for the whole year, without any restrictions, there are no restrictions and we cannot give them restrictions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the rest of you are concerned, I support you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86549	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, first and foremost, as your colleague, Glasovac, told you, should be careful of the facts. And our comments were, I think, extremely constructive. I don't know why you have the need to antagonise the unions and your opposition here, we're just fulfilling, they're making an interesting decision, we're constitutional. And secondly, I don't know what you're up to, but as a sociologist, I know something about statistics, and this law is for all of Croatia. I understand that your perception is shaped by your knowledge of what is at the Student Centre of Split, but this is one of the classic examples of a bad sample. If you are doing something for the whole, you cannot conclude the situation throughout Croatia based on SC Split. So I think our proposals were very constructive and clean, you shouldn't take them for evil.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86551	Thank you, dear colleague Glavasevic, for the answer of my colleague Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86552	I thank my colleague. I was just responding to what you were saying and what I read from independent unions, what we got and gave an answer to everything. I used SC in Split exclusively as a sample that I think is a top sample and that can be referred to all of Croatia. And here I am, specifically, a representative from the 10th constituency, so I definitely have to defend those colors. But I had to get up, get a little bit of you to scream and react, when you mention the student choir in the sense that it's some kind of student choir commission of 0.5 or that it's going to share some funds, because as a longtime student choir member of the University of Split, I know how it goes, I know what projects are, and I know how much these guys are trying and girls and how much they work, and now you're attacking them for 0.5% and how they're going to share the funds and who they are. I don't think they're standing, because who knows best what projects to go through, what projects are needed for a university but a student choir, just a student choir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86553	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Bačić, the next replica, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86554	Dear colleague, I'll just briefly look back on one of yours, in my opinion an important handbook, you said that this law is the way to introducing order in the pursuit of student affairs, absolutely agree. I reiterate those provisions, which are related to inspection supervision, whereby the ministry is responsible for the introduction, for the care of inspection supervision, in order to prevent any possible abuse of students and student work. And I fully understand and I'm trying, at least to understand the concerns of my colleagues on this side, my current right, have gone, but I would just mention, given their great concern for students and student work, that they had the opportunity to pass the Law on student affairs during their term, which they didn't bring, and we know that the rule according to which it was regulated from 1996 was, they missed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86555	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bedekovic, the answer, dear colleague Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86556	Thank you, colleague Bedekovic. You've said everything. It's a very clear thing. It's a '96 rule. the new law, the introduction and definition of quality inspection supervision, the introduction and quality of the infringement provisions, which were contained in the Regulation, all this necessary documentation, which is provided to the Ministry, all forms of control of the state administration, which can enter the student centre and ask for it, I think is sufficient indicator in which direction the ministry has gone, in which direction this government is going, which is transparency and the introduction of order. And normally, in the end, if we do more, that's better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86557	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Bacic, the next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86558	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, I have listened carefully to what you have said and I am glad that you mentioned, and certain statistical indicators, and I am saying this for a reason, if you look, let's say in the headlines of the last month, two days you will see that the government has increased the odds of working permits for foreigners to 20, and now to 30, and now 35,500 work permits. So, the coffee market we have, especially as you say you come from the 10th constituency and the needs of employers, and the possibility that students earn something, is, in my opinion, logical, normal, necessary, and look at the flexibility of actually this workforce and the ability to make students. So this law goes in first reading. All those who are well-intentioned, and there are representatives of the November choir, have the opportunity to actually complete certain things in this first reading, give their suggestions and suggestions. I don't need to be afraid of this kind of thing, I think this is a good bill, you've talked very clearly about it and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86559	I would like to thank my colleague Babic, the answer of my dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86560	Thank you, colleague Babic, for your inquiry and for this comment. It is these measures that are passed and this law, the constant need for labour, what we see and what is in Split Dalmatian County but also in the entire 10th electoral unit, but also in the whole of Dalmatia, exactly what the Ministry of Labour is doing, with all measures for youth unemployment, only professional training, the criticism of employers themselves, when the student finishes his studies and comes to the employer, the first question is, what did you do, where you worked. And here are the student jobs that help. Normally, we have to change both education and consciousness and our students, as well as our students, because we all keep mentioning entrepreneurship and the economy and everything, but we also give them opportunities and we open up opportunities, to work, to gain practice and to get out of the education system better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86561	I would like to thank my colleague Bacic very much for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, I couldn't take part in and hear all the previous debates because of the Justice Committee, but I think I figured out what direction it was going in, so I'm going to refer to it in that sense, and I think I can say something about it because I've been running a task force to make the law, so I know what the discussions on this topic were. Most of the two were the basic objectives of adopting this law, one was to extend the rights of students to work and enable them to make the revenues needed to pay the tuition easier because we received figures from which over 80,000 students in the Republic of Croatia must contribute financially from their own funds to the cost of their tuition and, of course, they needed to be helped in this regard. However, the second part is very important, and that is the system. We know there's been a lot of abuse, fictitious contracts, non-payments, exploitation, etc. And that's why this law was passed, which is why it's proposed that these problems be solved. Mostly the main point of reluctance, and when it was sitting on the task force, it was this story about replacing unfair competition, replacing students' workers. Now a few things I'd just say about it just for the record. First of all, the students themselves were not in favour of additional restrictions on student work, so the students themselves legally, legitimately elected student representatives who sat in the working group were totally unanimous and through consultations with their primary student assemblies from their universities were unequivocally against additional restrictions on student work, and that is what needs to be stressed. So when the SDP wants to save the students from themselves I don't think it's a good attitude, I don't think you should look at students in that one patronizing way but you should look at them as adults who are ultimately able to determine for themselves what is in their interest. So that's the first thing. The second thing, as far as the three-month limit is concerned, means for students who work longer than three months to offer them work contracts. What's that supposed to do? Would mass students get a job contract? They would not, but simply after 2 months and 29 days, employers would find other workers and simply move on in the same way. What am I saying? You cannot regulate state bureaucratic measures that this is how the market works because employers will always find a way to do what is in their interest to survive. And this excessive red tape, that too much pressure and workers and employers and regulation of everything and everything has led us to often consider Croatia uncompetitive in many things. And in that sense, I really don't see how these proposals would contribute to Croatia's competitiveness, however, I think that it would only make the whole thing even more difficult and make it harder to do work and do things. Furthermore, there are some other fuses that are not mentioned, which is that if you want to get a more favourable tax treatment for a student who works with you the limit is 60,600 kuna per year. So that when it turns into an hour is already a restriction that exists because, of course, once that amount is crossed, the employer will no longer be in the interest of keeping a student because it comes to the same position as to conclude with him a contract of work. So it comes to the same tax status as if that student had a job contract, so that restriction already exists, there's no point in additional regulation. Furthermore, there's a fuse that we put into law on the union proposal, which is that if it's working, it's already mentioned several times, but I'm going to point out once again, that if someone got a business-related resignation that the next six months can't hire a student on these jobs. It is precisely to avoid replacing workers more favourable to the employer with the fiscal variant, which are students. So there's a lot of these fuses that we've built into the law itself. Besides, of course... and some things that aren't in the Labour Act. So the Labour Act prescribes that for work in special conditions, holidays, Sundays, etc. There's a right to an increase in salary, but it doesn't list where. We have for the first time explicitly prescribed this law that it is an increase of 50%, so the student has the right to 50% increase in compensation. And in that sense, I think we are the level of protection of students from the exploitation of which our colleagues in the SDP are very concerned, raised quite high. A few more things that were mentioned here by the SDP, which is a matter of work experience. We had this debate, recognition of work experience, etc., but the conclusion was on the working group with which the vast majority agreed that such regulation is not the subject of this law because you can prescribe work experience, because what is the purpose of prescribing work experience? To make it something that employers will admit in the future. However, the private employer will take a look at someone's résumé, look at all these things that someone did, and also through a student service, and determine whether this person was doing the jobs that the employer needs. He doesn't need to be prescribed, yeah, say it's a work experience that and that, so that's not the way the country should get involved. The second is the state sector employment talk, that it can discuss the need for this student work to be recognised, but then again it is not the subject of this law, but a bunch of special regulations governing employment in public services, etc. What am I saying? So it sounds like a good idea, but in practice it wouldn't get anything, and we'd get another extra record where some more people would get a job and do things that weren't necessary. So the idea was to fix the system, but to really avoid too much administration. As for the system itself, I would say one thing that is very important, which is very, very large, some would even say dragon sanctions. So for the employer who is... the provisions of the law and who exploit students are prescribed fines of 100,000 kuna, means not up to 100,000 kuna, but definitely 100,000 kuna. So we think that this is a measure of general prevention very strong, that these are large sanctions especially for some employers and that there will still be a avoidance or even violation of the provisions of this law, especially in a situation where we first signed the explicit jurisdiction of labour inspection. So that's something that wasn't in the previous rulebook, and it's become a lot of unknowns about who needs to be monitored whether the rules on student work are broken or not. In this respect, in addition to the regulation of a much higher threshold of sanctions, this law also prescribed a system of application, or a system of supervision much stronger than so far, so that those sanctions could indeed be applied. And we also prescribed, I would like to stress one more thing that the responsible person in the legal person will be punished for the violation of the provisions of the 10 000 kuna law, which means to the director of each company I think is a very high penalty and that it can certainly serve as a prevention measure. Furthermore, these 0.5% were mentioned, and there was a lot of debate, but I don't really see the problem here. So there's a commission, it's that most of the student representatives were appointed in it, I don't see why they wouldn't be believed, why would it go with the assumption that there would be some problem with them, but the decision was eventually signed by the director of SC, or by the mediator, and it was explicitly prescribed that the supervision was carried out by the ministry. So there are enough fuses again, there are enough security mechanisms to prevent any abuse. But what we have achieved is that without reducing the competitiveness of student work, because it is still more favourable fiscally than other forms of work, we have made it possible for additional resources to be provided for dedicated projects related to what should really go, money from student work, which is nutrition, accommodation, cultural programmes, etc. So I think the law is good, of course there are a lot of compromises in it, we said there were representatives of both employers and trade unions and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance etc. and really managed to achieve a high degree of consent on a lot of things. Here I have listed some of the things the unions demanded and accepted. So the minimum fee, the right to pause, the ban on employment of persons who have received a business conditioned notice, are all the things that have been included through this social dialogue right here just to find a solution that will suit all interested parties, and I am particularly glad that the greatest support of this law has been obtained from students. And another thing is mentioned here, the Split student centre or some other study centre etc. So persons working as seasons don't have to do it exclusively through the Split campus, there's no limit to having, especially now that digitalisation is being introduced, the electronic conclusion of contracts that were first proposed by this law, there's no obstacle to anyone in Osijek making a contract and coming to work on the sea, in Split, Zadar, wherever. So there is no big difference between one and the other, however, we know how many seasons are from Slavonia, from the continental part of Croatia, and I think that it is them, and we know what the social and economic situation in that part of Croatia is, we need to make it easier for them to provide additional funds for their education. Just to reduce these differences and even the chances of someone getting a higher education and later finding a quality job, etc. And in the end, I would just mention that there are a lot of students, there are some statistics, that I don't get into details right now, that they just stay doing those jobs that they did through November. Working later, that it's very often a springboard for a further career. So we don't need to look at it as a cost, abuse, but just that, an opportunity for students to pay for their studies and prepare for a further career.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86563	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86564	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Sokol. In your debate you discussed as someone who led the task force, who developed this law and mentioned two basic topics, one topic is how to enable students to work as easily, better and better as possible to prevent abuses. We discussed this first topic a lot, and somehow through discussions, we all agreed that this law would not be enough, that it would be necessary if we really wanted to change a series of laws, especially that 15 000 kuna restrictions on parents, or 60 600 kuna, but what we had all the practice to see sooner or later, and that is that some employers were actually paying part-time jobs through November. You have tried to explain, but I would ask you once again, what are the instruments this law has, and which such practice will no longer be possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86565	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86566	Thank you very much. Yes, as far as other laws and restrictions are concerned, I agree, especially this part of 15 000 kuna, I'm now talking about my personal attitude, but I think it's definitely one area where change is possible and where the whole thing needs to be made easier. As for working on, that they don't replace workers, means the system isn't perfect, but I mentioned some of them, meaning an explicit ban that can't hire students on jobs where someone's got a business paroled notice within 6 months, I limit 60 600 kuna that serves as a kind of border and all the sanctions we've listed plus supervision of labour inspection. In that sense, the situation may not be ideal, no law is ideal, but in this I think we've really made the most of it. Because I'm saying, too much administration, at some point you're just gonna get your employer not to hire students, not help them, you can't get someone to sign a contract with someone he doesn't want to work with.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86567	I thank you for your answer to my colleague Falcon. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86568	Thank you. Dear fellow Sokol, in your debate, you have touched a lot of things, and you have devoted a lot of time to this particular part of the administrative, on the one hand to discharge, you have boasted in this way, and on the other hand through this law you have actually prescribed a lot of what can actually represent one significant administrative burden and in this sense I am asking you in what way do you put each other in context? Because in the public debate itself, there was a lot on the subject, especially in the field of communication, so there was a lot of observation that if such a law came into force that it would represent a significant administrative burden for those employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86569	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86570	Thank you very much. Well, of course, but things aren't black white, they always need to find some balance, so if you're fixing the system then you need to introduce some additional controls, but what's important and it's a test of proportionality as one of the fundamental legal principles, just as much as necessary, means no further than that. What's certainly going to help that is the whole digitalization story. Everyone involved in that digitisation will actually have this whole procedure much, much easier than before. What I would also point out is that both the student centres at the end and employers through the debate and through the working group gave support to this law because they themselves were aware that some abuses existed and that they needed to be prevented. So yes, to some extent, some things have been difficult but exclusively with the purpose of preventing abuses and I think that the law here represents a good balance which I say means supporting ultimately both employers and student centres and students with of course certain minor remarks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86571	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86572	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You're telling your colleague Sokol that this bill has been considering abuses, fictitious contracts, talking to trade unions, or a social dialogue that really needs to be welcomed. However, one group of people should also be pointed out and it is about extraordinary students who would allow this law to actually work, be on the labour market because student study and cost is not small and I think it is, it is good to think about this group. That is why I would like to further encourage this second reading, until the second reading, not to pass one major period so that this law can be passed as quickly as possible in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86573	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86574	Thank you very much. Well, here's one of the things I pointed out on the board. I'm very glad you brought it up, which is that there's really no need for this law to continue to stretch. So here I can say that in nine months, practically the content law was ready, but then it's due to various consents, etc. It's been stretched out so far. Well, while we're here, I think it would be very good for the law to be passed before the summer break just so that it could happen during the season and through this seasonal work, allow all the benefits that come from this law. So here's the way, I agree with you, and I call on the Ministry to really contribute, and especially since we in the original draft law foresee that it enters into force 1.1.2018. So I think that, at least by the beginning of the tourist season, it would be very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86575	I thank my esteemed colleague Falcone for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, you said that you support an increase of 0.5% of the student council's commission and that you don't see any, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I wish I could agree with you. And I'd just like to ask you, are you familiar with the fact that in 2018, these same representatives allocated funds to the former president of the November choir for his private project? And I'm asking you how we can have a guarantee, and is this law enough to guarantee that the fees will be allocated to those who need it, meaning to all students and not to some private owners until yesterday's student assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86577	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86578	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad you asked me that, first of all, so these funds are not allocated to the November choir, but to November projects, which are related to students. That's the first one. Secondly, there is a committee of three members of the student assembly, two members appointed by a mediator, or a student centre. Further, the intermediary, or the student centre, must determine, publish the criteria under which the distribution is carried out and, according to these criteria, the Ministry of Science and Education shall monitor whether all is in accordance with the regulations or not. And in the end, the director of SC is the one who has to sign as a responsible person whether these funds are transferred or not, so it's not on any student choir account or anything like that. Well, I believe, of course, that he won't sign some things that may be suspicious, illegal or something. So I don't see what to suspect in the student assembly, I don't know, maybe the SDP is more suspicious of the student assembly because it's been trying to gain political leverage over the years and it's not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86579	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Voice, I would like to ask you nicely to behave properly to this High House and not to engage in the word of your colleagues. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go. You have three respected colleagues, Bedekovic, and you are no longer entitled to replication. Excuse me, colleague Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86580	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Sokol, it looks like he's said everything he just said, it's not exactly an honor. But let us now move on to, so to this debate today because there is really a law that should solve the problem of the number, so a number of students, and indeed in the situation where we found ourselves, I would say all together, not only did the students find themselves because we saw that, due to certain circumstances that were not affected by just students, there was an increase in the number of extraordinary students who were actually not as primarily imagined to be students who were, who were working and parallel to study. So, given the different circumstances that, for example, because of the loss of certain points, because of other circumstances, they become extraordinary students. However, they do not work, and they are indeed in a far more difficult position for them and their families to respect therefore all that is needed in order to be able to study well quality and well, and these are, above all, the financial resources that must be provided to pay for their study. Of course, respecting both freedom and independence of the university. I think that we also need to take care of this, we have the right, to point to some circumstances, some changes, something that happens and to refer to some words or something that is important that can also encourage universities themselves to solve problems or the problem themselves, but also to review some studies because it is still about when we analyse that programs and obligations of regular students and extraordinary students in these circumstances are almost equal. I did not come to this by researching all the student work or students, talking, but by talking to a number of students right on the ground, they pointed to the fact that their obligations are almost as equal as those who study regularly. In that sense, we can really welcome this law and say that it is good that we have come to the fact that we have also recognised this right for extraordinary students who have had regular students so far. However, we can also commend both the fact or the wish of the proposer himself to go to one increase or to increase the standard itself, i.e. the students’ own rewards through a clearer definition of the minimum hour, but also a clearer protection of the students themselves in the student work. However, there are still those circumstances, there are some things that suggest that there could be either abuse of the law itself or that there might be some disturbances in the labour market, so in that sense I think it's worth discussing and discussing before this law is passed at all, and how much it really takes to bring it forward, even to a summer break, we could also discuss it and discuss it. It's a fact itself, and it's been mentioned here several times during today's debate, so here I think we heard in the last debate that somehow it's seasonal affairs that would now be an incentive to pass this law. And when we talk about regular students, they can work in seasonal affairs anyway today, as they have done so far. Extraordinary students right now in the season can work through a work contract, does someone defend them? Does anyone at this time defend students who are extremely studying to sign a labor contract? We must acknowledge the fact that no one defends there, therefore an extraordinary student, everywhere, at sea, can be employed through a seasonal contract, through a contract on a certain basis, so all of those measures or those options that exist. In that sense, I don't think it's really an argument that we should pass this law in a hurry, just because extraordinary students or any students can or do this season because everything exists to them, so everything is at their disposal. Who in this situation are we going to contribute to? Perhaps employers, at this point if we talk about seasonal jobs, work on seasonal jobs, then perhaps at this point we will only contribute to employers and not to extracurricular students, because this 3 or 2, or 3, 4 months, I repeat, they can work on a perfectly regular contract and I hope that instead of hiring through a student contract, these people will get a chance to work through a labor contract. The more we're really in a situation where employers, and every day you have all of them, all the jobers at sea are actually crying out for the workers because the workers who have been working the season before have gone out. And that's the fact, and what are we doing now? What are we doing again? Instead of encouraging contracts to work, we encourage something else. But let's not put it in the same context now whether we're defending extraordinary students working or not. No, it's that extraordinary students do, because they want to work and they need to be enabled, but this is no argument to pass this law because this situation does not defend them. The fact is, you said that you have high consent to the adoption of this law, okay, but it is also pointed out in the opening statement that some remarks and a lot of these observations of the union itself are not respected, so it is also about the fact that there is a real danger, unfortunately this would not happen for the first time in Croatia, this is happening in Croatia, and we need to be aware of this or other laws we have to admit that very, very quickly some models are found how to bypass it, how some of the provisions get around, and then in this way they become the subject of abuse. So there is really a real danger that perhaps some students, extraordinary students who have now been working on a work contract, that after some time because it is more favourable for the employer to get fired from the labor contract and that they will continue to work through the student contract, there is and you can't say that you have statistics or that you have clear indicators, no, you can't say that because at this point you don't have, we don't have the situation that you're talking about, so if this law comes into effect we're just going to get into this situation that maybe something like that can be realized. You should also admit that there are really different views on the issue and on the students themselves, so that not all students are in favour, so some are in favour and some are in favour, and we really need to take a lot of care about this and leave room for those who are necessary to get a quality law that will solve or protect students themselves. What was said, then, is that we should repeat all of this simply because you have made restrictions. You've limited the students first, and now you're trying to make this kind of a relief, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86581	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We have a replica, dear fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86582	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, colleague Alfirev has structured her entire debate as a big replica of me, so I'm going to have to simply answer. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, I've said everything about who's politicizing or not, it's fascinating how SDP likes to put words in other people's mouths and twist the thesis. So I didn't say that HDZ is politicizing students, I said that the SDP is doing it, and you have as many examples as you want from the events of the people at the Faculty of Philosophy and so on, so I think you really don't have what the HDZ is complaining about. Second, why don't you make a deal on a month's work, two or three? Well, because it's just the idea of student work that it's part-time and temporary jobs. It says in the law, the labor contract is intended to establish a different working relationship. I'm not sure anyone's going to make an undefined deal for a job that lasts two or three months. And third as far as statistics are concerned, etc. So we have statistics on some SCs that show that the vast majority of over 70% of jobs that are done is shorter than three months, so the work longer than three months is the exception, and over six months is almost gone, so that statistics already exist, and it will continue to be when this digital system is introduced will be even more... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86583	Thank you, dear fellow Sokol. Answer, dear colleague Alfierev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86584	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Falcon, you just said and that's one of the key things. So that's what I forgot to say in my debate, you can't talk about student jobs, work is work, and it's just the premise that some student jobs or occasional jobs, and in this context, it's hard to say that they're occasional jobs because seasonal jobs, they're business and they're done by all the workers. Therefore, the argument that this is why you went or that, for two months, you can't or don't need to enter into a work contract really doesn't stand. I think there's still an employer's or some of the other groups at work here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86585	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86586	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. At moments unnecessary bile debates which, first of all, wants to show and send a message to SDP against this law which is completely wrong. So we are not against this law we just want it to be as good as possible and we are in the first interest to protect students and ensure that there is no abuse of student work in any way. We cannot talk about this law without mentioning one small picture that stems from this law, which is an approach to higher education that is closely related to the socio-economic status of students, students and their parents and others, the position of extraordinary students at higher schools in Croatia. So these are two issues that must be resolved in parallel with this law, and this law itself will not contribute to resolving the basic goal of all of us here in this assembly, which is to increase the possibility that every child in Croatia, regardless of where he lives, will end up in a higher education suitable for his abilities. And secondly, to bring extraordinary students into a position that should be consistent with their study and work. So if we look at what the Institute of Higher Education has written, then it is clear that it has very well detected the state of emergency studies that stems from this law. So I am the legal proposal that we have shown that the government supports what is already informally known, which is that extraordinary studies include a part of people who have failed to obtain the status of regular students, and a good part of higher education institutions encourages this to increase income, colleagues and colleagues to be honest, so a part of higher education institutions do not do so because they want to help students, but rather want to increase their incomes while doing nothing to make it easier for them to study, to ensure that they are easier and that they study with work easier to meet their student obligations. The Institute for the Development of Education recognises the problem of non-regularity of study programmes and the scope of obligations for exceptional students or the fact that many extraordinary students have almost the same working burden as regular ones. It's not possible and it has to change. So, from the debate in this law, we must send messages that are very important in view of the announced amendment of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education in order to define the category of extraordinary students, but also to send a message to the internal rules of higher schools that enroll extraordinary students that, accordingly, alternative study programmes should be designed to adapt to the needs of exceptional students. It must be one of the messages of our debate today. It will also facilitate the work of those who could not handle the problem of extracurricular students, but this resolution should be approached much more systematically, for example by encouraging public debate on the introduction of tax relief for those who are educated with work to balance their financial expenditure on studies. So we want to get close to the EU target in Croatia, which is that in 2020 it is 40% highly educated at the age of 25-34. Unfortunately, we are about 24.3 and things are standing, despite increasing the number of students from year to year, not increasing the number of graduate students. So there's an additional problem, why our students enroll, why they don't finish their studies. One of the key literature, which everyone would read, when drawing up this law, was developed by the Institute for the Development of Higher Education, the financing of higher education, the social dimension in Croatia, analysis and recommendations. I recommend everyone to read until the second reading, because from this paper they can find a whole series of very important indicators. Among other things, the brochure also says that student work is a possible problem in terms of a fair approach to education, as it can affect academic success and abandonment of studies. Thus, an entire series of international research, from which the following can be read, students who do not receive financial assistance from the family, are more often working during the semester. In higher education systems, whose state financial support systems for students are not exhaustive, students spend more time working than studying in relation to other systems. Studying with work can damage academic success and have a negative impact on the share of the higher education population. Some studies point to the conclusion that student work can also have a positive impact on the current and future incomes of students and on the development of their skills, especially if the work is related to the field of study. When it comes to Croatia, 45% of students in Croatia said that, with study and work, half, full-time or part-time. When it comes to full-time employment, data from the Department of Statistics say that 4.4% of university students and 23.3% of students work full-time. What is also very important, data from the National Statistics Institute, confirm that children of highly educated parents, less often work full-time during their studies. For example, in a group of professional studies students, only 11.8% of higher socio-economic status students worked during the study, compared to 35% of lower socio-economic status students. From all of this, we can conclude that if you come from highly educated families in Croatia, your chances of enrolling in the study are 6 times higher if you come from a family of lower socio-economic status. All this says that this law can only be one small segment of the overall future way of addressing the financing of higher education, addressing students' needs, which is written in strategy, education, science and technology. So, together with this law, which until the second reading, believes, to experience and improve precisely in order to protect students, it is also necessary to change the overall concept of student subsidies, scholarships, loans, so that many more are given directly to students, from those in indirect form, as they are now represented in the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86587	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, we have a replica, dear colleague Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, colleague Jovanovic, I listened carefully to your debate and I am glad that you have made much more of an argument than very often the discussions that come from the other side. I agree with you in a lot of things. There's only one thing I'd like to mention, so I agree that we need to reform the entire system, see how... Exceptional students, regular funding, etc. But I wouldn't re-evaluate what the results of this reform will be, of course, depending on the ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I would say one other thing, which should be mentioned, which is that I am sorry that you no longer invested in that human capital in our education system, unlike, say, this government. So just to mention 1,000 social scholarships, the degree of scholarship, means, investing in the restoration of the system through the employment of 250 new PhDs every year, while in your time there was a drought, so I think it should be mentioned that this government has made the biggest step in this investment in human capital, for sure 10-15 years in our education system, and that should be mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86589	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol, my colleague Jovanovic's reply, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86590	Thank you very much. Comrade Falcon, why are you so dishonest and manipulative? So, you have to compare the data in our mandate and your mandate, you have to compare GDP, you have to compare projects that are applied in our time, and they're retreating in your time, so let's stop talking and you, let's stop saying what was in my time, what was at the time of this government. A large part of the work that is now being done in this government is being done thanks to the foundations, which were built at the time I was a minister. So, those stories of yours, you're not, we are, are completely missed, irrelevant, and there's no use for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86591	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We have a final word, on behalf of the motionary, honoring Secretary of State Branko Ramljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86592	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Thank you very much, I have to say on behalf of the promoter, it's almost 3 hours that we're having a debate on one small law, and apparently it's an important law. Thank you all for actually sensitizing our public in some way, today we have heard a thousand times a student who is very pleased to me, because I come from this area and the students will be glad, it's about higher education. Clearly, this law is one link, one wheel, which will help to introduce order in this part of the law relating to the performance of student affairs. 'Cause since '96. when we didn't have but one little rule that regulated it, we today can still talk about the law, which has an exclusive task, to introduce order into the system, to increase transparency, but also, what is important, to allow for completion, greater completion and inclusion of education as such. Here was one of the questions that why we didn't put anything into the Law on Student Work, I'll just say, in the commission's work it was a question that was, at the beginning of the clarification, asked for information and further explanations, the Ministry of Labour therefore sent us a letter on the basis of its analysis which made it clear that the questions in the field of student work were resolved or regulated, and that the law now deals exclusively with issues in the field of student work. All interested stakeholders of this system, therefore both students and employers, i.e. job and mediators, have received clear rights and obligations. And if we're practically every time we're gonna talk about looking for an excuse not to spend anything, then we're not gonna do anything seem to bring it here. To all of you who have made the suggestions, we will, of course, consider them, wait for the written answer, or the instructions given to us, what should be done and I am sure that in the second reading we will come up with a proposal that will produce a quality legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86593	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mrs. Ramljak. We have two replicas, a respected colleague, Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86594	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable State Secretary, therefore, speaks of how part of the family and part of the students manage to finish their studies, then get a job in Croatia, not to leave Croatia, therefore it is also an important demographic measure. However, I would take this opportunity to appeal to you about a burning problem which is currently being plagued by the masters of medical laboratory diagnostics, many of whom have completed their studies, for a job where laboratories are currently being closed in Croatia because there is no labour force, while at the same time the Ministry of Health is absolutely ignoring these people to leave Croatia and does not want to recognise their activities in health activities, although there is a need and basis for this, and that is something where I believe that you and your ministry would be able to further pressure the Ministry of Health to recognise this activity and allow the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics work in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86595	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Next replica, dear fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86596	Thank you very much, so here's Madam Secretary of State, I'm glad you've summed up everything that's been done nicely, it's certainly positive and again, I point out once again, that it's my pleasure that the priorities of the ministry are now in a positive direction because I think it's not just a matter of financial resources, but it's a matter of priority. If you invest less than one percent of your ministry's resources from your doctorate, and that's too little for you, I think that's a priority thing so I don't think we can always call on that we didn't have enough resources, etc. but what is politically important should be determined, what is considered a strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia and for such things can always be found, especially when it comes to small funds when viewed in the context of the entire budget, and here again I congratulate you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86597	Thank you, dear fellow Sokol. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs Branko Ramljak and the head of the sector, Mrs Kristina Ferara Blaskovic, for the reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86598	We move on to the proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, first reading, P.Z. No. 348, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal for a Law on the conduct of student affairs is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 18 abstentions and 4 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86599	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on copyright and related rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 352 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the responsible Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would like to ask the motionary's representative, State Secretary, Mrs. Branko Ramljak, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86600	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, here I am again. Therefore, the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights proposes to amend and supplement existing provisions on copyright restriction for the needs of disabled persons with the aim of facilitating the adaptation of printed works and other content protected by copyright or related rights in formats adapted to the needs of blind persons, persons with visual impairment or other difficulties that prevent them from being used in the press. With this proposal for law, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia shall comply with the relevant European acquis and with the international contract established in 2013 under the discovery of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, the Marrakech Treaty on the Facilitation of Access, published works for persons who are blind, who have visual impairment or have other difficulties in the use of printed materials, and the Colloquial Treaty shall be called the Marrakesh Treaty. For the purposes of joining the EU and its members to the Marrakesh Treaty, the EU adopted Directive 2017/1564 on certain permitted uses of certain parts and other protection matters protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of persons blind, having visual impairment or having other difficulties in the use of printed materials and amending Directive 2001/29 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. It's complicated, as you can see with the big titles directives, and I have to read them exactly as it stands. Directive 2017/1564 has also been adopted with respect to obligations arising from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities under which persons with disabilities are guaranteed the right to access information and education and the right to participate in cultural, economic and social life on the same basis as other grounds. The blind person, person with visual impairment or other difficulties that prevent them from serving the press face the process of education and in everyday life with significant barriers to accessing books and other printed material. This indicates the necessary measures to increase the availability of books and other printed material in special formats adapted for the purposes of those users. The books and other printed materials normally contain copyrighted works and other copyrighted or related rights, for which processing and making available to users generally requires prior consent of the rightholder. The existing legal framework already provides for certain exceptions and restrictions of copyright and related rights in favour of persons with disabilities, and the proposed amendments and additions will establish more detailed and clearer rules and application of this exception to the user category in question which is defined so as to include persons with difficulties that do not represent disability in a narrow sense. By adopting the proposed law, authorised entities, under clearly prescribed conditions, will be able to adapt and make available to those categories of users such works without the need for the prior entry into force of the authorisation of the holder of copyright and related rights and without the obligation to pay an appropriate fee. In accordance with the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, it regulates the definition of the basic concepts relating to the use of the subject matter of protection under this exception, the production and use of works on the EU internal market under the rules of exceptions, the obligations of authorised entities relating to the use of this exception, the obligation to comply with the rules on the protection of personal data and the transparency and exchange of information between authorised entities and the State Institute for Intellectual Property as a competent national authority, and between the institutions and the European Commission in order to allow for the exchange of accessible formats for the needs of users. The categories of users to which the exception will apply according to the proposal in question are: persons who are blind, persons who have visual impairment which cannot be corrected so that the visible function is essentially identical to that of a person who has no such damage, persons who have perceptive disturbances or difficulties in reading, including dyslexia or any other learning difficulties, which essentially do not allow them to read printed works in the same way as persons who do not have such interference or difficulties, then those who are unable to hold a book or handle it or to focus or move their eyes to the extent to which such damages or difficulties or difficulties or difficulties or persons are essentially unable to read printed works in the same way as persons who do not have such damages or difficulties. The adoption of the proposed law and the relevant national rules in other EU Member States will facilitate, in accordance with Directive 2017/164, the cross-border exchange of copies of works or other subject-matter protection in an accessible format and ensure greater availability on the whole internal market of the EU, which will reduce the need for multiple production of such copies, and also lead to savings, i.e. increased efficiency, activities aimed at facilitating the position of those categories of users. Finally, given the content of the proposed law in question, which facilitates the conditions for the activity of non-profit-based entities providing education, training or access to information, blind persons and persons with visual impairment or other difficulties for which they cannot be used in the press, the implementation of this law will not result in additional costs for the public budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86601	I would like to thank the esteemed secretary of state, Mrs. Branko Ramljak. We have one replica, dear colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86602	Your Honor, Mrs. Ramljak. Well, I'm curious as to why... In Croatia, as a private company, it actually has a monopoly on copyright protection, why not allow authors to organise themselves at another association besides ZAMP if they want to, but only ZAMP has to represent themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's the opposite of market principles, and the very idea that the law prescribes, i.e. giving a monopoly to a certain group of people over these copyrights, has actually made fewer choices for both authors and those who consume music, i.e. those who use these copyrights. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86603	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86604	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary and Associates. So it's about amendments and additions to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, and I would open three topics there. One topic is, we have the harmonisation of this law with EU legislation, that is, with one of the directives and regardless of the government, that is, the proposer decided that the law goes into two readings. I'm usually one of those who thinks it's good that the law goes into two readings because then it can be discussed in quality, but already our experience has shown us that between the first and second readings there are no major changes in laws, although we expect there and I think that this is one of those laws that could be decided to go according to emergency procedures or in two, so first and second readings at once, so it really takes a little bit to think about it because it's not every time for two readings, that is, the main law is, but this could be something that we might also accept to do so. Let's just say that when LNG was lex, we decided on an emergency procedure, and this isn't what would really be worth thinking about, there's justifiable reasons why it shouldn't be. The second topic is that this law enables the actual availability of press to our fellow citizens, i.e. blind persons, people with visual impairment, or those who cannot be used in the press, and it is good that. It is a directive which is from 2017, so this suggests that in 2018 we are already installing it into our legislation, installing it in the way it is. And the third topic is the Copyright and Related Rights Act. When we have this law, therefore by amending and supplementing this particular case, we have installed this directive, I hope that this directive will also be, not only a dead letter on paper, but we will really enable our fellow citizens who have problems to have some other things available to them. But since the Law on Copyright is a subject, things are changing, things are defined differently, and I would say that through some of the next amendments and amendments to the law to think about something that has caused a lot of problems in practice, and these are copyrights related to architecture and the topic of urbanism. When it comes to urbanism, then it is, given that the spatial plans that are ordering units of local self-government have been a lot of controversy as well as how, but when the topic is architecture, I think that through the following changes or additions or the making of a new law on it should be taken into account. What am I talking about? I'm talking about the fact that architects very, very rarely and in exceptional cases somehow protect their architecture in terms of this law, but then we have problems with the implementation, a very simple example, so at the moment our fellow citizens decide to change their appearance on some kind of buildings, which even from the point of view of architects is acceptable, so that any change of carpentry, new carpentry or possibly some kind of cover or something, then it's always a problem whether or not to consult the authors, who inherited that architecture, so that some subsequent changes might be a little bit defined because in the process of issuing certain licenses of the reference in a different way, it should always be a recommendation. The more the authors agree with it, the more they agree with it, the more they have authors who disagree, the more they have authors who go to cancel certain permits because they haven't been asked, so I think that's one part that's got a lot of problems, so we should regulate. In this work, you are actually in line with the obligations that there are and it would be very good to have these obligations that we have installed, which we are building into this law next, so that it should be true and in practice that we see it all together. Although I must say that regarding the changes and additions of such laws, we had here only in three readings of certain laws that are within your jurisdiction, because in the first reading it was for that failed experiment with Mr. Oreshkovic, and then you repeated the first time, the first reading and the second reading, so these laws with which you come, and this law is something that would without great problems and endured the first of the second reading. So the methodology by which the Government decides to go in two readings, in one first and second is very unusual, this is something that could really be simpler. Here you can see in the first reading how much we will be discussed, in the second reading we will certainly have all our discussions from the first reading and repeat them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86605	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86606	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary of State with co-workers, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which, I would say, will facilitate the life of our fellow citizens who are disabled, who have different damages, and above all, to blind persons, people who are damaged by vision or persons with other damages that I will later list. On 15 June of this year, so a few days ago, last Friday, we marked the 72nd anniversary of the Croatian Union of the Blind, and I must tell you that they are extremely pleased and welcome these amendments and amendments to the law, since, as I said at the beginning, they will make life easier, or what is good, and that is to bring our domestic legislation into line with the EU acquis and what is most important is to bring it into line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The users to whom these amendments apply and the additions to the laws as I have already said are blind persons who are impaired by vision, but are also persons who are primarily not persons with disabilities, as the State Secretary noted, these are persons who have dyslexia or some other learning disorders or difficulties. So already this expansion means an extremely much and further, these amendments and additions to the law also apply to persons who, due to physical damage or motor disorders, are unable to hold a book or handle it or focus or move their eyes to the extent that reading would in principle be possible. So I would say that these include a large number of people with disabilities with various other damages because motor disorders can cause various damages or different disabilityes such as muscle dystrophy, cerebral paralysis, multiple sclerosis or any other damage. So here's what's good about spreading a circle of people like this. Furthermore, when we look at the content of these amendments, we see that the conditions for the activity of non-profit-based entities provide education, training or access to information to so-called blind persons, persons with visual impairment or other difficulties that cannot be used in the press. And what is extremely important is that these changes and additions do not generate new costs in the state budget. What is extremely important is that these amendments and amendments to the laws, as I have already said, facilitate living conditions, but not only the living conditions, but these categories of people with disabilities are made easier by education. Education is the most important prerequisite for hiring people with disabilities and I have to say here what some people have said to me the other day at the celebration of the Day of the Croatian Association of Blind Persons, which is that we will finally be able to have education as we would like because it is a prerequisite for employment, and very few of them are employed. This is what we want to change, and I believe that these changes will contribute precisely to the fact that education for this category of people with disabilities is as high as possible in order for employment to be better and more quality in order to employ more people with disabilities, so blind, impaired, etc. He could also get a job so they wouldn't just be educated for phone people. For one profession that no one needs today. They have and very soon will suggest, they have various other professions they consider to be able to work for. I therefore thank you for recognising the needs in this way and for harmonising this regulation with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities since Croatia is the third country in the world to which the UN Convention has signed, and I have probably already repeated this several times here in this assembly, but it is not a waste hearing when we were told that it is not a good idea to sign the Convention so early, I was fortunate to attend this solemn act. And then we told them that the convention would be the wind in our backs, that we would solve some problems as soon as possible, and that as soon as possible, our legislation with the acquis of the EU was everything to us, and we focused on it alone. At the time, we were extremely happy and satisfied even though we knew we had no money. At that time, we still knew that we would not be able to endure it financially, but it was brave to enter that move, and today people with disabilities express satisfaction because of what happened. What is also good, and that there is the possibility of expanding the circle of persons with disabilities, so we do not have deaf persons here, but there is the possibility that, in due course, this directive also predicted that, in due course, there is the possibility of extending the directive to other categories of amendments to the directive, and in terms of enlargement to other categories of people with disabilities, I believe that this will eventually happen, and at this point I think that these amendments and amendments to the law are extremely high quality and, as I said, will certainly make life easier for our citizens who have vision problems or motor disorders or with some other learning and reading disorders. I believe that by the second reading we may be able to implement some other improvements, but this is, as I said, extremely high-quality and therefore the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86607	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86608	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with co-workers. So here, this really isn't something controversial, the SDP's club will support this bill and in principle what I want to talk about today is about copyright and it's about this law, something that's waiting for us today and it's about something that's been touched by a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, and it's a general relationship to the European directives and their implementation into Croatian legislation. So what we have in front of us today and what we are about to declare is soon an example of a law that is actually good, something that comes to us from European legislation and what we implement in ours, which certainly represents progress in relation to the existing situation. It seems to me that in the past few years, a practice has developed, and even a little uncritical, in principle, a little, often non-critical relationship with European legislation. We have somehow created an experience-based habit that, of course, what comes to us from the EU is essentially more advanced than what exists in our legislation and that we can, in principle, have relatively little interest, as we can see here, access it with a large amount of trust. However, this is not always the case and I think that, especially since Croatian citizens are really relatively ill-informed about the EU, unfortunately this is the problem and we have to work on it, relatively poorly informed about the developments in the European Parliament and in general about how laws are passed at European level and the directive, that there is one great need for co-ordinated work. I will give you an example, the main thing of what I would really like to talk about today is the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on copyright in the single digital market, so that's not what we are implementing today in our legislation, but it's something that is around our corner, so as good as this law today, I think we need to be very careful and critical about what is waiting for us, so tomorrow in the European Parliament on the European Parliament's Legislative Committee will vote on the proposal for this directive, and then if it is adopted on that committee it will vote in September at the plenary. But here it is that the road to hell is often paved by good intentions. The idea of this directive is that authors, content that is creative, help them to ensure that their content, i.e. the use of their content on the Internet, can be charged. So this problem is real, it primarily refers to large international online companies that own these content platforms, here we primarily think of Google or Facebook, there are more. These platforms actually earn large amounts of money on the content that users upload to the Internet, so they earn large amounts, and very rarely by tantium, that is, part of that money comes to those who created it, so to the author or in some cases when it happens, what happens to them is actually disproportionately small in relation to the profits made by the platforms. The problem, as I said, is very realistic, but the solutions proposed in this directive are really very problematic and have been greatly criticised by a number of digital rights organisations, including the United Nations. In a moment, I'm really going to have a more specific problem. What the critics of this directive point out as a problem is the fact that it could actually lead to censorship, as a basic problem, another that could endanger the existence of a whole series of media, small media, especially local media, and that it could have an effect that is contrary to the idea of this directive, i.e. to make it impossible for authors to have the right to work. It could also make access to EU citizens' information more difficult and I find it really problematic. The disputed articles in this Directive are Articles 11 and 13. Article 11 provides for the payment of internet service fees for every news link set up up to 20 years old, meaning the proposer of this law, which is the European Commission hopes that this way the money will come to the creator of the basic news, the original news. However, some organisations, such as the European Digital Rights Organisation, say that not only will money not only reach publishers, but internet services, and there is one of the main Googles that simply excludes numerous portals or news to save on costs, and ultimately, as you can imagine, it will lead to the collapse of many smaller portals, and deny readers access to essential information. So there will be oligopolous news, they will only come from large publishers and this will lead to a reduction of pluralism in the media and the possibility of greater manipulation of public change. In fact, if those of you and those of you who are watching the media scene are aware that this is a problem in which, for example, in the United States, for some time already is spoken, not in the context of this, but in the context of Internet neutrality. So there are examples that this happened, this is not a question of theory. Article 13 of the European Digital Rights Organisation and numerous other organisations will, of course, lead to even greater censorship because, according to that article, internet services are required to introduce automatically, watch out for this, automatic identification and filtering of posted content on the site. This in translation means that there must be some recognition mechanism probably an algorithm that will already monitor and filter the content that users want to place on platforms in the process of setting user content. So it can actually potentially lead to a complete ban, so full censorship of the use of someone's work. Among other things, the European Court of Justice ruled that observation and filtering of content is against freedom of expression and violates the right to privacy. The obligation to implement software that will monitor and filter all the content prescribed by this Article 13 has actually already been named, it is the name of the censor's machine. So I wouldn't monopolize the debate on this law any more than I've already kidnapped the subject, I wanted to warn you of something else. I wanted two things to achieve, first and foremost, a contrast between how sometimes truly European legislation is more advanced than ours, and it can bring us well-being, but sometimes these things happen. Otherwise, just for information if it matters to anyone, a number of EU member states are supporting this directive, some are asking for a more restrictive and let's say Croatia would really like to hear more about it, I still have to admit, asked for Article 11 to be more restrictive. So I think it's very important that we perform critically for this kind of thing and I would pray here, and here I am glad that the secretary of state listens to this, and I'm going to talk about this anyway in the coming months because I think this is very important especially for younger generations who are on the Internet and with the Internet breathing and living. So there is the potential for something that we do first of all at European level, and then we here in the Croatian Parliament to fundamentally spoil the nature of democracy in the 21st century, and I think it is a very serious thing to take very seriously. We also had opportunities to see how censorship works and how it feels. We saw how it was and I talked about it earlier that the Internet was being abused to disrupt democracy, we had opportunities to see how the echo chambers and ideological bubbles were being created on the Internet and used to disrupt democratic elections in several countries. The last example was in Slovenia among other things. So, according to these things, we need to have a critical distance and we need to act actively towards them. So I think this is a question that all the important actors need to make known, including by actually starting with our executive authority. Here I would only end with two things, first and foremost, that what is proposed by this directive is very much in its nature similar to what we had a few years ago, most people forgot about it, which is an act, so a transnational agreement that has caused major recommendations throughout the international community and was eventually rejected because it has caused deep divisions in societies. This is very similar in its nature. I am aware that it is very difficult for a country to face challenges that pose major transnational, international platforms such as Google or Facebook, and that is why it is good to deal with them as a team as an EU. But it's not worth winning if we do it in a way that fundamentally destroys our way of life, and this is exactly what a proposal would do. So, I apologize for a little kidnapping the subject, the subject is related to copyright, but this contrast I think is important. Today, the SDP club here will support the bill which we believe really promotes our legislation, but we also wanted to warn that there is a great need to actively start dealing with some things that are happening far from Zagreb, far from this place in Brussels where we have representatives, but in this committee where we will vote tomorrow on this proposal Croatia does not have representatives, so only in September will we be able to discuss it. I invite you, then, to be active, to be awake, to be active and, in the name of all EU citizens, above all, to fight and represent, above all, the voice of the young generation and of the younger ones who are justly concerned about what is being done. So here's another excuse for being and if there's a need for sanctions, I'd be happy to accept it, but I thought it was important to talk about this subject. And here, thank you, the SDP counseling club will support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86609	Thank you. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the secretary of state and my associates. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 352, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft law amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act is adopted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 93 for, 2 abstentions and 4 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86612	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable MPs and parliamentary representatives. Forests and forest land are of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and have its special protection. The proposed forest law ensures the strategic objective, sustainable forest management and forest land and, on the other hand, eliminates the difficulties and administrative barriers observed in the application of the applicable forest law primarily in the section relating to the availability of forests and forest land. Sustainable forest management involves the use of forests and forest land in a way and to a extent that reflects its biodiversity, productivity, capacity for regency, vitality and potential for the current and future to meet relevant environmental, economic and social functions at local, national and global level and which do not cause damage to other eco-systems. We also protect the existential and economic needs of the population through sustainable forest management and forest land, enable rural development and ensure the necessary measures to protect the unique forest-economic area of the Republic of Croatia as a functional unit. The proposed provisions of the law create preconditions for horizontal and vertical harmonisation at national level as well as for the challenges set before the forestry sector and with the forest-related sectors and with the rational use of forests and forest land. With the aim of rational use of forests and forest land, available procedures have been arranged and are in line with the rules in the field of state property management, strategic investment projects, environmental protection and nature protection and spatial arrangement. The spatial plans are a basic prerequisite for the availability of forest and forest land and are of great importance for the participation of all relevant stakeholders in the production and adoption processes. The Ministry of Agriculture participates in the adoption of the same opinion and the opinion of the ministry on spatial plans is a condition for the deforestation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are spatially covered by the construction area and or a separate building area. In order to improve the monitoring of changes, the area of forests and forest land, or detachment, a detachment act has been introduced by the Ministry of Agriculture. Furthermore, with a view to unifying, conducting procedures for individual projects in the establishment of limited and real rights over forests and forest land, it is envisaged to conduct service procedures and to establish building rights for infrastructure projects such as waterways, wastewater disposal, sewerage, gas pipelines, electrical and other waterways, and in the Ministry of Agriculture. While the availability of forests and forest land is within the authority of the state property management body, whether it is the separation of certain forests and forest land in order to implement spatial plans for construction and/or separate construction areas or to establish the right to build on forests and forest land for the purpose of building golf courses, campsites and other sports and recreation buildings in accordance with spatial plans. The establishment of the right of construction for those purposes over forests and forest land is considered to be a protection of ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the maintenance of the total area of the forest economic area instead of the demarcation and transfer of ownership. The introduction of the possibility of segregating individual forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for agricultural use on the one hand and, on the other hand, the integration of certain land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which will not be brought into the forest area, makes a significant contribution to the land-owned process of the Republic of Croatia, demarcating agricultural and forest land and taking into account the real situation on the ground and, with the agreement of the experts of the forestry and agronomic profession. An important forest law has prescribed a ban on cultural change on the burned surfaces for 5 years since the fire. By proposing a law, the deadline for changing the purpose of fire-fired areas with the obligation to resuscitate areas by forest owners within 2 years of fire has been extended to 10 years. Certainly taking into account the need of units of local self-government to plan existential projects and projects of communal and economic needs. For the first time, the possibility of replacing forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia with forests owned exclusively by other persons within the same or neighbouring economic unit has been introduced for the purpose of rounding forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian forests are given public authority, which refers to the implementation of the entire procedure for the lease of forest land, resulting in an accelerated procedure with the retention of the transparency of the process itself and the control of the implementation of the procedure by the Ministry of Agriculture. The purpose of the rental of forest land has been further expanded so as to enable the lease for the purpose of raising short-term crops, which encourages the production of biomass in the Republic of Croatia. The conditions and criteria by which forest land can be leased will be defined by a specific regulation, and the primary objective is to lease forest land in accordance with the actual needs of the users, particularly when it comes to the purpose of pasture. The effective management of forests and forest land contributes to the establishment of a register of forest economic areas of the Republic of Croatia, such as electronic records representing a united system of registers and data registers and computer programmes, the geoportal of private forest owners, the registration of damaged forest ecosystems, the registration of forest fires, the recording of signs, whose purpose is to ensure effective access to information and monitoring of changes in forest areas and forest land. The register will allow for long-term operations and formatting of the report without additional burden on the administration. Furthermore, in the draft law, a clearer definition of forest and forest land, as well as the division of forest according to purpose, where the concept of urban forests is introduced for the first time. Urban forests are forests and forest land that are surrounded by a building area or a direct border with a building area of the settlement, and have a significant impact on the quality of life of the inhabitants of the settlement. Forests whose purpose is to create the necessary conditions for rest and recreation of visitors, forests within the range of camps, golf courses and other sports-recreation areas. Respecting the fact that certain forests and forest land have great importance for local self-government units, it is possible for a legal person whose founder and owner of local self-government units is entrusted with the management of such urban forest. In this case, such a legal person is an equal forest owner, and with the right to manage the forest he receives all the obligations of forest owners arising from the provision of this law in accordance with the rules of the forest profession. A unique definition of forest owners is proposed, thus achieving a better standard of rights and obligations for forest owners as a whole, while respecting specialities. The division of private forest owners according to the size of the property enables further promotion of small, or medium forest owners, especially in the financing work, both the production and restoration of forest economic plans and management works, which contributes to the survival and protection of small forest of owned property. Registration or removal from the register of private forest owners on the basis of a request from the forest owners will be made by applying in the competent offices of the Croatian agricultural forest advisory services as a public authority of the service with the aim of a simpler and faster registration for users. The procedures for the approval of forest economic plans, as well as the basic document for the management and use of forests and forest land in the area of the Republic of Croatia, have been defined, with the responsibility of manufacturers, i.e. licensed persons for the accuracy of professional data, surface area, wood supply, increase, eta, list of forest economic plans. A new category of forest economic plans has also been introduced, and these are economic unit management programmes with an environmental network management plan, which is a major step in terms of specific regulations in the field of nature protection and environmental protection, and the need to conduct previous environmental impact assessments and studies, even for natural goods management plans, such as forest economic plans, are certainly and are. Such a model, i.e. by further expanding the content and activities to be carried out in forest economic plans, along with regulations concerning forest management, management plans will be plans for environmental management. The bill retains compensation for the general services of the KEFŠ forest, with an amount of 0.0265% of the total income being paid by all legal and natural persons carrying out their economic activity and making total revenue greater than 3 million kuna, resulting in a fee not being paid by a person with a income of less than 3 million kuna, which we consider to be a contribution to the development and incentivisation of small entrepreneurship. Maintaining this strictly dedicated revenue of great importance for the forest sector because it ensures the biological restoration of forests for which significant financial resources are allocated, 50% of the total resources collected, but also for demining forests and forest land and financing of fire communities, which has a direct result of forests and forest land and urban environments from the catastrophic consequences of the fire itself. The forest contribution, which has been paid three and a half and five percent so far, increases to 10 or 5%, is paid to local self-government units. The funds of the forest contribution shall be paid to the special account of the units of local self-government, self-government areas in which the shadow forest is carried out and used exclusively for the financing of the construction and maintenance of the municipal infrastructure. The aim of the contribution is to generate value derived from forest goods in a given area, to invest in a local self-government unit. It is provided for the adoption of a sub-legislative act to regulate the way in which the forest contribution payment is to be made, thus ensuring better monitoring and payment of contributions by private forest owners. The bill also provides that part of the existing forest and forest decoupling fees are to be paid at the expense of the state budget, and is used for the optimal contribution of forests, the forestry sector and the forest-related sector, rural development, growth and creation of new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86613	Thank you. Now I'd like to ask the rapporteur, uh, excuse me, we have replicas, yes. We have five replicas. First in line, dear colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86614	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Just two questions or two comments. One is very important procedural, and the other is conceptual character. In fact, in almost all the law on issued solutions, as I have read, there is no possibility of appeal, but the parties refer to the Administrative Court. I don't think that's good at all, but we should certainly make it possible to appeal to the second degree, or in the ministry, because we all know that... The administrative court can take a long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about our administrative courts and courts in general who are overloaded, I don't believe this will lead to the discharging of the courts. The second thing is Article 8 when it comes to the meaning of certain concepts, paragraph 9, and then later in other articles, the deforestation of forests is mentioned. I don't think our profession deserved to be labeled that way, that they're not any milk that's pampering the woods, and that's why I'm going to propose that the contraction be renamed, that's to throw out, that's to talk about a clean cut.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86615	Thank you. You want an answer? No, I don't. Then let's go to another replica, dear colleague Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86616	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. You're talking about OKFŠ, it's a good thing that OKFŠ is no longer charged to smaller companies, less than 3 million kuna gross revenues, it's certainly a benefit to them. It's like that, but it's gonna be 90 percent of the rest of them, and the 10% circus was that small. One of the purposes of the KEFSH is the purpose of fire. So far, that purpose has gone 5%, and that's pretty much what went wrong. We have information, I'm interested in it being accurate, that from now on 20% of that selected KEFSH will go for the fire, that 5% further will go for the breach, and 15% for the continent, so that continental societies will be more mobile, more ready to defend their areas, but also for Dalmatia. And I'm wondering if this OKFSH now, that 20% is going to be a severe waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86617	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86618	Here's Mr. Parliamentarian, thank you for asking. You're very familiar with the activities carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. Yes, until now, the applicable law has provided for the Minister to deploy funds from the compensation of the common useful functions of the forest. It was Minister Tolusic who recently amended the regulation in such a way that the funds that were raised at 5% and were the income of fire stations on Kršo, we increased to 20%, which is an additional detachment to 32 million kuna for the needs of fire stations on Krš, but also for the first time since these funds were paid for the purpose of fire stations on the continent that regularly participate in the fire season. However, we have provided additional 8 million kuna within the additional funds, so 40 million kunas are planned for this year, and we believe that we will continue with these activities in the adoption of a new Forest Act where we will provide funds for the conservation and restoration of our forests and at the same time for the financing of firefighters.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86619	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86620	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. In your opening presentation, you mentioned several times spatial planning, spatial planning documents, significance and everything else, and then you cited the provision of Article 46, which says that they are related to fires and land reuse. Already in the first reading, this provision has caused a lot of controversy to the public, and it still seems to me that this provision is certainly not the place in the Forests Act where you speak in advance of how, or that the 10 years of the area that has been suffered by fire can be re-scheduled. I think it still needs to remain in the spatial order documents, and then decide whether those surfaces will continue to be forests or not because in this way I have a feeling that maybe some of the fires that we're witnessing will be intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86621	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86622	Surely, by the final proposal of the law, we have taken care of both these situations and responsibilities. We have prescribed by law that every area of fire must be restored after 2 years from the fire itself, with the possibility of a further 2 years, and by law we have extended the possibility to initiate procedures on the re-use of forest land, except for the possibility that through the adoption of spatial plans on which the ministry gives an opinion and ensures the possibility that units of local self-government can plan their own development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86623	Let's move on. Dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86624	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. In the draft of this Forest Act, you left in Article 38 a ban on the possibility of picking wild fruits, mushrooms, asparagus, chestnuts, etc. I don't know why you don't let citizens read freely once, raise their standards, that people, demographically, mean people living in the edges, that means everything. I invite you to allow this law, this is an opportunity, a free reading. What is much more dangerous is the article 56, which reads: Foreign persons without citizenship cannot acquire ownership rights on state land and forest land, and now says: Unless an international contract is defined differently. I call upon you to final out this supplement on international contracts because you're opening a target hole to sell state forests to foreigners. I'm asking you to drop this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86625	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86626	We have repeatedly commented on this initiative of yours, but this law stipulates that all our fellow citizens can collect these forest products without compensation, only they have an obligation to report to the public forest owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86627	And let's go to the last line, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86628	Thank you very much. Forest as the largest resource, one of the largest, the fact that the domicile population has no use, for example. in Gorski Kotar, people can not only buy fruits of the sea, asparagus and others, but they can not use anything. And the fact is that this law written for golf courses, we need to re-purpose it and the possibility of Article 56 becoming that owner of a foreign natural person or legal person, is what the colleague said. Same as agricultural land. You have enabled this, by law, that foreigners can become, legal natural persons can become forest owners so that this whole article is a fraud because they are called to international contracts that make it possible. So this law is a law on golf that will take over strangers from the surface of our forests and build golfes or I don't know what, you've made that model easier. Well, comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86629	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86630	Just for a little while. As far as I know, the Croatian Parliament confirms all international agreements, so it is a responsibility at the Croatian Parliament, and surely the Ministry of Agriculture would not suggest anything that is not in line with Croatian laws and the interest of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86631	Thank you. Now we're going to the boards. Do any of the board presidents want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, the first is the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, respected colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86632	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. It's in front of us in the second reading of the Forest Act. It's about the law that caused it in the first reading, I'd say, a bold debate and it's also to expect it to continue for the simple reason that this law defines both the system and the way and the management and management and the use of forest and forest land. Croatia has therefore a surface of Croatia is about 47% under the forest, although in the system of space, it is from the data of the Croatian forests, and in the system of spatial planning and in the report on the state of the area, 51% of Croatia is under forests and forest land. It was based on one of the satellite footage from 2014, but absolutely now I think at this point it's secondary. About 50% of Croatia is under forests and forest land, at around the world level, I'm talking about the surface of the continent, so to the earth. At the world level, it's about 30%. I often refer from this pay phone to the 15th of February '68 cards. These are maps which are in the legalization process, that is, everything that was done by February 15, '68. The year is considered legal using the tickets we managed to get from Belgrade. They tell you nicely what was the situation in Croatia in '68, how many agricultural areas were there, how much of these agricultural areas were working and then when you compare those cards with the cards in 2011 that served us the reference area, and thanks to Google and all the data you can do it today and you can actually see how the forest was, or the tree spread to agricultural areas that were not processed. If our agricultural areas continue to be unprocessable, i.e. if less, this means that Croatia will be an even bigger area under forests and under forest land. When it comes to forests, it really is one resource to be treated in several ways. One of the things where you need to see what they are, to use economic purposes, but when these economic purposes are environmentally acceptable and in this sense you must have a responsibility. In this respect, it is indeed necessary to make sure that the principle of sustainable management of natural resources is respected. And that's what our mission is through this law and through the application of this law and through everything we've had a chance to see and what we've had a chance to talk about. Equally in the spatial planning system, I've been dealing with it for many years, as it has been known to happen so far. It used to happen that you have on the edge of a forest building area and a good forest. Then of course you have a desire to expand the construction area and then in this procedure that was the usual, you cut down that forest because you come and you conclude that it is in bad shape, then in the catastro, you re-purpose from the forest to, like, meadow or something else, and then in that sense the land begins to be refurbished into building land. It wasn't all kinds of practice, but where there was a need to expand the construction area it was a practice and something that wasn't good. Now that things go further in terms of overlapping cards, in terms of real state, in terms of records, it's less possible and really needs to be taken into account. And in the first debate and in the first reading, and even now, I've been discussing a few things and I'm going to do it again. The first thing that causes a lot of emotion here is the theme of camps, the theme of golf courses. Golf courses at one point were really a hit in Croatia. In the area of the Istrian County, I also remember that the spatial plan was, now I won't say the exact number anymore, but somewhere I think it's 17 that I remember well, 17 golf courses. Of those 17 golf courses, none were realized. One was in the phase of issuing permits, among other things the first golf course story was your next, that the entire golf course should be excluded, especially forests and forest land and forest economic bases, re-purposed to the construction area, pay the exemption fee, but to continue to remain forest, because of course the golf course to develop in nature, do not develop on asphalt. And the situation at the camps was even more drastic, so you are, the camps formed in areas that were forest. Why? Because it was a natural shade, because you could develop camps here. I, by the way, think extremely well about camping in terms of planning and in terms of the effect on tourism development, because it at least, therefore, changes nature at least, at the very least. You can also have an effect through very fast investment, so those who deal with the tourism industry say that for one hotel after 27, 28 years you can have some economic effect, in the camps it is much faster. So on the one hand, in terms of devastation of space, the smallest devastation of space, on the other hand very quickly you can put into function and see the effect that then, and see the effect in tourism, employment and everything else. And we've struggled terribly for a long time with the laws on tourist land, what to do with forest and forest land. And it's a good thing that it's left, that it's still a forest, that there's no need to isolate but there's a need to maintain because it's nature's forest we're actually paper to define it in one way than it was defined in reality. What we have a few more topics as well as in this forest law. This issue of separation, the theme of compensation, is already some other colleagues and in the first debate, so I'm going to leave them with it now. But here I would talk about the subject of waste in the woods. So we've become a place where we're very happy to have waste. Not only do you have old cars, old refrigerators, but you've got construction waste and you've got some communal waste. And now the provision of Article 45 of this Law has said that, of course, this waste must be removed and then you must find, that is, the burden of the one who left that waste there. Which is, and we all know absolutely impossible. The only way you can do that is if you have a job, if now these poor communal inspectors, the directors, we send more into the woods and they're taking care of who leaves it or puts the cameras or something else, and we know it doesn't have to be done. And that will be one topic that will certainly be the topic between local self-government units and those who manage forests, which with this waste. And we have to remove the waste, we have to remove it from the woods, and it's definitely going to be a special story. Special stories are urban forests too. So what situation do we have today? I always want to say what is most acceptable to me, and most acceptable to me is the city of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb in the area defined by the GUP of the city of Zagreb as a space intended for construction, you also have a forest. Let's just say that space beneath Pantovkatsk is a forest and so far you've been told by law who manages these forests, and this forest could not be managed by units of local self-government, or those special bodies with special powers established by units of local self-government, this law has been made possible and this law has been made a step in this sense for the simple reason that indeed in the territory of its municipalities and cities where there are forests to maintain these forests, the use of these forests is in the jurisdiction of special bodies that will form units of local self-government. What's the subject is that we have a very good habit in all our laws. We like to use new terms, but to use that term in one law and not have any more in any other law and urban forest. So when we talk about the Law on Spatial Planning, that is, a spatial arrangement based on spatial plans, there is no urban forest term. I'm also on the Legislative Committee and here I'm going to repeat at the plenary session that we at the GLAS and HSU Club are going to propose an amendment to make... So let's make this one connection between the Law on Forests and the Law on Spatial Planning, that there are no misunderstandings, because in terminology, in the Law on Spatial Planning and the Regulation that they can't use urban forests because it's not generally in terminology but it'll be able to relate to the way they use it, so I'm asking the Ministry not to exactly refuse the amendment and not to say it's an amendment to the opposition and we automatically reject it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, there will be a very, very technical amendment that will allow us that when you call something urban forest and you call what the forest is in the area of construction areas and what the construction areas are isolated and you call in terms of using it that spatial planners can connect it at least in text or provisions so that there is a certain connection. And there's another connection that's quite important here and quite important and that's the use of the forest as it was mass. You specifically cited the law regarding the plants of short periods, I must admit when it first came then I went very carefully to read what it was about and saw what it was saying behind it. There was also a conference the other day, the topic of how Croatia sees itself in the future in terms of its ecological, i.e. in terms of the use of clean energy. Among other things, one of the topics was mass. One of the topics that's been spent here, and I think it certainly makes sense to discuss it, and that's the extraction from the trees that fell. In particular, we have forests in the Gorski Kotar which are remembered by those great ice disasters that have been shackled with ice, which have fallen behind it and that it is one of the potentials that can be used for biodiversity but it will probably be tied up and the possibility will be discussed in another law that will be from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy. Special emphasis should be given every time when it comes to forests, two more topics that are related to it, one topic is the roads that are important in forests, so those fire averages, the roads that are important to have, which are important to maintain, which is especially important to maintain with regard to climate change that we have, in which climate change is where all experts from this aspect are talking about an increase in world temperature that is already increasing from 0.8 degrees a year, which changes and the way, so nature will be the first to adapt. However, what we are really participants, which is a fire that is more and more frequent and which are in a longer time period, so it is also very important to give this law a special emphasis on the subject. And there is also another story that is related to the forest, but again related to a number of other laws, because of course no law you need and you can't look separately for yourself, but when you need to look in context with others, these are the quarrys that were created in the woods, the quarrys that were created for the reason whether a stone was needed for the white road and for everything else. Yes, in the forests, nature has done its best, so nature has brought about the recovery of these quarrys, but I remember the maps we had, especially when it was that big action that was at the state level, building highways, where there was a lot of merciless entry into the area of forests and forest land. Nature makes its natural recovery its own, and we, our task is to have laws that actually make it possible for us not to forget, the basic principle, it's a sustainable management of a natural resource called the forest. And not only do we have it in terms of defining the law properly, but that this law that we adopt and apply because what our practice so far shows is that we have laws that are even correct, that fit the time, but every time we do it we get a lot of sneezing, so it wouldn't be good for us to do the same thing on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86633	Thank you. We're going to another club, it's a SDP representative club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86634	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think we'll all agree here, and we talked about it in the first reading of the law, that the forests in Croatia are one of the most important resources we have, along with water and others. So the constitutional category and therefore the forest law is extremely important. The forests in Croatia are said to extend to 47% of the land area. We in the SDP are aware that the rulings always have a majority and that they can vote the laws they want, no matter how important they are, or how harmful, or how good they are. But precisely because of the importance of the forest and forest eco system, we are obliged to react, and even suggest that certain provisions of this law change, and they have not changed because they have not changed enough since the first reading, in the best sense, for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and most of all for our forests and forest eco systems. So that's what my colleague Mrak-Taritash was talking about before me, but what else are we talking about? We are not running away from supporting something that is good, but we also believe that most when proposals are constructive we should support and what we are proposing, because we propose first of all in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that we have a better law and more enforceable law. So let's take the turn. I have mentioned this earlier, and this is the principled observation of the profession with which I have spoken, in Article 8, which speaks of the meaning of certain concepts in paragraph 9. And then it is repeated in the article 39 that speaks about when it is allowed, etc., etc. After 250 years of tradition of forestry in the Republic of Croatia, after hundreds of years where we own our forests, we remember that in history it has always not been, I'm not sure that our forest experts who are really good in their field of work will agree to be called "Melken", the decouplers of the forest, and it is our suggestion that, instead of that ugly expression, we use the expression "clean" which is now used in professional circles. Article 13 also mentions what the register of the forest economic area is, but what our doubt actually serves if we have all this information in the society of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. and in the advisory forest which these affairs are dealing with. Why do we double jobs, why do we double registers? Article 26 refers to the national forestry strategy. This is absolutely something to say hello to, we in the SDP think strategically should be considered, especially on the development of such an important branch and portfolio for the Republic of Croatia, but we think it is a bit of a mixed order of adoption of acts. If we were to determine the policy of forestry, we think that we should first and foremost adopt a strategy of forestry that we believe should be discussed here and adopted if possible by consensus, and only then should we go to all the acts that come from this strategy and the objectives that we set ourselves. So the Forest Act is one of them and it should help to implement this strategy. We bring the Forests Act until we actually know what to do with the forests, we don't know what our ultimate goal is, in which direction we're going and this is actually one radius, we would say, without a wider framework, without a broader vision in which we want to develop these areas. In that case, therefore, we would not have any changes and additions to the law every few years, depending on who is in power or not in power, we would have one law that would be in the service of that strategy, which could then change, complement the achievement or non-fulfilment of the objectives set. That's why I don't understand why he's in such a hurry to pass this law, unless it's about certain political points of a certain minister. Here we are also talking about, therefore, when we talk about the strategic development of the forest, we must also talk about the forest in the service of demographics. Demography is a hot topic in Croatian media, in the Croatian public. We know that our people, unfortunately, leave the Republic of Croatia and the forests can be a developmental stopper, especially in rural areas, in mountain-mounted areas, etc. But that's not happening. And it doesn't happen why? Because they are Croatian forests d.o.o. A highly centralised company, all revenues go to Zagreb, very little income from used wood remains in the middle of where the tree was exploited. So these could actually be developed by Lika, Gorski Kotar, parts of Slavonia, etc., etc. It is a deeper problem that should then be dealt with first by strategy and then by law. Art. The 31st century 5 speaks of operational annual forest management plans, which we absolutely welcome. But there is no indication of who approves them. We think you should add here that they are approved by the Supervisory Board. Art. 31, which speaks of the tree's discovery is too widespread and we don't really think it belongs in the law. We know that something should be prescribed and written anyway. But things that are regulated by the regulation, and we think that this category should not be found in the law, or unnecessarily complicated by the law. Art. The 37th is about the cargo manifest. So we'll talk first of all about samantics and syntax. The freight sheet is not a forest term. In the tradition of forestry, we said how long it's been going on, so for some 250 years, there's an expression of escorts. I don't think we should change tradition just because someone needs to put something new in order to, like, turn out to be smart or something revolutionary new. Every time I talk to the foresters, everyone's talking about an escort, mentioning the cargo manifest I haven't heard before. Art. The 50th is about the performance of forest works, so in the 3rd century, it is determined that a single household for its own needs can make heating in the amount of 20 metres of cubic. But I'm asking you, how are you going to warm up in Lika or Gorski Kotar with just so much wood? We think this should be erased, and the gray economy should be prevented in other ways. There's another problem, so when we're talking about firewood. Of course, for example, if you're from Vinkovac or Osijek or Or Orahovica, so it's less important, you can't come to the forest management in your forest and buy wood for heating. Why? Because wood is sold exclusively by contract sales because the wood industry is kept. But I'm asking you, so the same thing we can talk about, which the wood industry keeps because the range, unfortunately of our wood industry, honors the exceptions of course, and there are, is mostly to oversell the logs and sell them or resell them further, rather than develop a final product. And on the other hand, our citizens are prevented from buying something that should be elemental, and that's a heating that doesn't go into and a class of wood, so you won't be selling an oak tree for sure. Art. 55th is about the replacement of forests and forest land. But what we are interested in is whether this article is an introduction to something that should normally not happen and whether it serves as a legitimacy to such actions. The replacement is limited within the economic units. So, let's say, within that economic unit, 15 kilometers from the sea, I swap my forest for the forest on the coast of the sea. So, for example, plant a few olives, and make it a multi-year plant, and make an oil shop of several hundred squares, which will also have rooms for rest after a taste. I don't have to tell you how it's done in bypassing the law and dealing with certain other activities, not the one whose forest and permanent plantations should actually have. We think that this article is quite inconclusive and that it opens up the possibility of many abuses and we think that it should be thrown out of the law. Art. 59th is about renting forest land. We're not against leases, but we don't think the purpose of the lease should be put into law. Of course, except for the possible need to praise the minister who will boast about it in front of the press, if this is a populist goal, then the goal is fulfilled. But in law we put... What's with the juggling, which is with a handful of other things that can buy forest land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that this should also find its place in the rulebook, and certainly not in the law, first of all because it's a pretty operational matter and if we're going to change the law every once in a while because there are new circumstances on the market, where it's going to bring us. Art. 65. talks about compensation for the general useful functions of the forest. This article 3. it is determined that the accounts and charges of this fee shall be carried out by FINA. This actually ends with me all the transparency of collecting and spending these funds. So far, there has been a special account at the Ministry for this fee, and we think it should stay that way. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 66. which speaks of what is 6. Fire operations are shown to be funded. Since these are strictly dedicated means, we believe that we should prescribe transparency of spending, especially what about 20% of the funds I raise should go for fire activities according to my knowledge. But what is certainly good is that fire work is being put in place, so those who will use this measure, as you yourself know the condition of fire when we first talk about infrastructure and we have seen scenes of antique fire vehicles extinguishing our fires, for example in Dalmatia during the summer. Art. In 67, it speaks of the payment of a forest contribution to the local community and speaks of it being paid in relation to the selling price of the products on the market. But it's not clear at what price list. So that's what's left of it. If according to the price list of Croatian forests d.o.o., then it should be listed either according to another price list or market price. But we also believe that the forest contribution should be freed from small forest owners precisely for the purpose of discharging them and putting them more efficiently into the use of their forest space. Art. The 72nd issue is disputed in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3 under the conditions of the inspector's staff, we hold that inspectors must have at least 10 years of employment, it is a responsible job that requires a certain experience, although the years themselves are not always a guarantee of a rich experience. I think a man who spends ten years in the system as a forest man has it and can only help him be a more effective inspector. I repeat, once again, that in almost all the law on solutions issued, there is no possibility of appeal, but the parties refer to the Administrative Court. It's not good, it needs to be made possible to appeal II. The degree, or ministry, because we all know that cases in the Administrative Court can last for years, our courts are overloaded and it will not contribute to the more efficient functioning of the system. There are also mentioned urban forests here, we can certainly welcome it, that units of local self-government will rule their forests, we know that such a situation was in the city of Split, we have heard now and an example from Zagreb, there is one also in the city of Osijek. So I believe that units of local self-government will know how to use local, or urban forests for the benefit of their community, in favour of the local self-government unit and their citizens. In view of the importance of this law, we hope that our remarks will be included in the law, so we will submit them in the amendment form, because it is a second reading, but they are certainly well-intentioned and they are going towards the end of having a more quality forest law, a law that should regulate how we govern one of our strategic resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86635	We're going to a third debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86636	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. There is a second reading, or final proposal of the Forest Act. This law regulates the system and way of managing the management, use and availability of forests and forest land with a view to ensuring management on the principles of sustainable management, economic and environmental acceptability and social responsibility. The principle of sustainable management, prescribed by this law, is an optimal relationship between forest management on the one hand and forest protection on the other, all aimed at rural development and job creation. The law underlines the responsibility for forests at global level, promoting sustainable production and consumption, i.e. the use of forest products. The establishment of a register of the forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia, which will be conducted in electronic form, enables significant savings in administrative affairs and the use of information and reports, without any additional burden on users. A unique definition of forest owners, as well as the division of private forest owners according to the size of the property, achieves a better standard of rights and obligations of forest owners as a whole, while respecting specialities. The importance of the law is to support private forest owners, especially small and medium-sized ones, by releasing certain costs and actions, as well as other laws of the prescribed way, which is to contribute to the survival and protection of such forest owners. In the case of property legal relations, along with the other newspapers already mentioned today, it should be pointed out that giving the ministry's opinion on spatial plans is a prerequisite for the deforestation of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are spatially covered by a building area or a separate building area. The process of establishing the right of service and the right to build on forests and forest land has been united, making it significantly cheaper and accelerated administrative procedures for the purpose of building infrastructure, as well as for other projects. The separation of individual forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of agricultural use is done in a catastra as an ora, olive grove, meadow, pasture or other forest economic area of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of agricultural use, and it is also possible to reverse the procedure, that for those land that are estimated to be no longer for agricultural production, that they are not used for this purpose, that they can be reused into forest land, that is something that is constantly adapted to the real situation on the ground and I think it is very useful and that this should be used as much as possible and clearly with professional supervision, as prescribed by this law. As regards financing and compensation for other useful forest functions, so-called OKFŠ, here I welcome a rate of 0.0265% of total income or total income of legal and natural persons who are taxpayers of profit tax and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax working in the Republic of Croatia and who have total annual income and receive more than 3 million kuna. It's a newspaper in this law compared to the laws so far, because so far there has been no such limit. It is the same thing to greet because it helps small entrepreneurship, and yet it retains a certain level of funds that is collected from the BOX and for which all purposes are already being used, and these are useful uses from demining, fire, above all, that half of the resources are being returned to the forest, that is to raise new forests, for growing forests and for all works, above all in the forests on the cross, and we all know that these are forests that have no use, and that space has to be managed. I would also point out, come up with a forest contribution, welcome an increase in forest contribution, although it goes to, conditionally speaking, to the damage of public forest owners of the Croatian forests, meaning increasing the forest contribution to 10% of local self-government units with the status of assisted units of local self-government in mountainous and mountainous areas, and 5% of other local self-government units, by repeating here what the secretary of state said, I point out that these are strictly dedicated funds for the construction of municipal infrastructure and that the use of these funds will be monitored, i.e. local self-government units are obliged to make a programme available with such funds. There I would like to mention to Mr Hajdovic, who said that small forest owners should be freed from it, they were already freed from such obligations by the proposal of this law, and apparently he did not finish reading the law, but he would probably mention it as a state secretary. I would like to point out in particular that the statement, with a whole series of remarks accepted between the first two readings, means between the first reading and this final version, the observations made by the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Law and the observations of the actions of the representatives who were delivered here at the meeting of the Assembly. I would like to point out in particular that it is accepted that Article 40 increases the level of protection of forests and forest land so that it is prescribed that in the ingredients of the first and second age classes the ingredients of which are in the stage of fertilisation of seeds and forests intended for scientific research activities and continue cannot plan to build camps, golf courses and other sports recreation areas. It is also said here that this amount is increased from 20 cubic metres to 30, which I also welcome, although I personally believe that this level should not be in the law, but that this should be resolved by a special regulation because the regulation is much easier to adapt to the situation on the ground and the real needs, while we also know that the amendments to the law require a much longer-term procedure. This would touch a little bit of what was said here and related to the mass, related to the supply of wood raw materials to the industry, to the wood industry that needed it and not only the logs, but also to the heating tree, the multimeter tree, the tree in any form. We need to know one thing, a tree is a limited resource. It's not the sun, it's not the wind, it's not the water, it's the wood, it's the wood, it's the wood, it's the forest, it's the wood, it's the forest, it's the forest, it's the forest, it's the economic base that allows us, how much the regulations allow us, how much forest economic base of economic units, ultimately, and the forest economic base of the area that covers the entire Republic. This year, as far as I know, the plan of cutting the Croatian forests is somewhere around 5 million cc's and I think it's the biggest plan of cutting. Clearly, it must never be cut more than it grows, however, it must always be smaller than natural annual growth. This means that forests are well managed when they can gradually increase the amount of cutting, but we still have some, or about 5 million cc's of wood coming into the market in one form or another, whether it's a log, whether it's a heating tree, whether it's a granium or some other form of wood. So that tree should be deployed to, there I've already said to the population who wants that tree for heating, to those who need that tree for certain forms of processing, and to make parquets or some other things, and also to bio mass. We passed a law where we would plant rapidly growing species for needs was mass, but that's something that took a certain amount of time, and that would increase the mass of wood we have, but not significantly and not in some short time. So when we talk about wood availability, we have to satisfy all of these factors, and that's not easy because I repeat, wood is a limited resource that isn't in immense quantities. As for the news in the law, new developments in law and new categories, these are urban forests, i.e. local self-government units, can form legal entities that would govern such urban forests. Clearly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can give such forest management to such legal persons. I welcome this paper in law, but I put a certain fence on how it will continue to develop. It's really a newspaper, it's a so-called. We have such examples in the world, they're so-called. municipal forests dominated by municipalities, cities or other forms of units of local self-government. I hope that it will not be abused and that the team will not go too far. Likewise, these forests will be governed according to the law and in the way that the law provides for all other forest owners. As far as this is concerned, there has been a lot of talk here about fires, burned surfaces in Article 19 mentions the recovery and artificial restoration of the burned surfaces. The deadline of 2 + 2 years is possible, so what is said in Article 46 is prescribed that 10 years on the burned surfaces of forests and forest land is not intended. So they must first be restored, forested, and for the rest of the years up to 10 years, such forests must not be redeployed. Well, I don't think anyone's going to think that they're going to set fire to the woods on purpose for 10 years, so they can possibly reroute it. This may even be a restrictive article, but knowing us and how things are happening with us may not be a bad idea to install such an article. I would say to Mr Lovrinović that he carefully read Article 38, because Article 38 is true that he prohibits the use of non-wood forest products, but in Article 38(3) speaks extremely of the provisions of this article, paragraph 2 provided that it is not contrary to both forest-economic plans and specific regulations in forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, the public forest owner may allow without compensation or with compensation for the collection of forest products, the exploitation of humus and resins. It is also allowed to jury and brushes that are generally prohibited, but in section 4, when forest-economic plans are foreseen. So it is not true that it is completely forbidden, but today there is a rule of the Croatian Forests that allows the collection of forest fruits for its own purposes. Replacement of forest and forest land referred to in Article. 55th isn't much of a newspaper. It was already in the forest laws, so it wasn't, I hope it wasn't abused in the way it was mentioned in the examples along our coast where it has valuable land, but not so valuable, but for some other uses, but on the continent it's a very good measure and I think it will be recognized because in this way it can round up forest property that today is fragmented or some private forest owner has some small plot within a larger forest complex owned by the state and replacing some other plot that the state can once again come to round the property and I think it's not bad, just clearly, it should always be kept from being abused, but they're placed in this article and protective mechanisms, that's the government's opinion, and I think it's to say hello. I would just like to take advantage of this very little time and mention to Mr. Hajdovic also the notion of deforestation and the concept of clean cutting are not the same thing. The deforestation has been in forest laws since I read them, and that's 30 years. So it's removing the forest from some area to build some kind of infrastructure, first of all, if we lay down some kind of pipeline, pipeline or so. It means we're removing the forest completely, squishing the hives, pulling out etc. Whether it's antiquated or not, that's what we'd be able to talk about, and the pure cutting of the woods is when we cut down the woods. But on that ground we expect the forest to rise again, either in a natural or artificial way. So, those two concepts can't be confused, nor can we identify them. Eventually, instead of deforestation, we can find some other concept such as removal or something like that, but I'm saying, that's the concept that's been in forest laws for many years, and every change has left it as such. In the end, I want to say that the HDZ Club will support this second reading of the Forest Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86637	Thank you. We're going to the fourth debate now. It's a club of representatives of the HNS. Dear colleague of the Goddess Macar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86638	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here is the Secretary of State and the rest of us agreed that forests and forest land are good for the Republic of Croatia as the second article of this Law states. However, from different aspects, we experience different forests. So some actually experience the forest primarily as an economic function, that is to say, it is used to produce wood. And it's no wonder, since we know how important the industrial branch is exactly wood-processing for our area. We also know how many people are employed in this activity and that it matters, it matters. However, here we look at the article. 4. The law, under the economic function of the forest, states that it is the production of wood forest products, the production of forest reproductive material and the production of non-wood forest products. However, what is far more important to us must be a focus, which is the development of awareness of the importance of the forest and that of the generally useful functions of the forest. And then there are nine items that are the protection of soils, roads and other objects from erosion, streams and floods, the impact on water regime and water quality, on soil fertility and agricultural production, impact on climate, protection and improvement of human environment, oxygen creation, recreational, tourist and health functions, creating favourable conditions for game and increased impact of protection forests and forests on biodiversity. So the woods are really important. I mentioned air conditioning. We're witnessing climate change. We are also witnessing how much forest is in a bad position, that is, in a bad situation because of pests, because of ice, because of the wind, and that is what we need to make sure that it is cleaned up and that forests can continue to function normally and serve both economically and this other purpose. Furthermore, compared to the first reading, he heard that he was a member. 50. century 3. increased heat wood for local population needs from 20 to 30 meters cubic. Is that enough? Well, I think it's an average household, yes, but I agree with my colleague Felak that maybe that shouldn't be a restriction in the law, but to see that through the Regulation. Then we talked about a forest contribution that increased to 10% that received units of local self-government with the status of assisted areas and 5% of units of local self-government, so everyone else and that they were obliged to use it, to pay into a special account, to create a programme and exclusively for municipal infrastructure. There we had the comments of private forest owners that this forest contribution which was introduced was an unconstitutional category and that it should not be paid because it is not paid by farmers, so they should not, even though I note that small forest owners who actually have wood for their own purposes do not pay for it but only medium and large. But here, it's normal that the remarks are different because everyone looks from their point of view, which is everyone's right. What I would further quote is in Article 8 where the meaning of certain basic concepts is. So in Article 26, we have the concept of urban forestry is a specialised branch of forestry which, when performing forest management and forest land, pays particular attention to the cultivation and maintenance of eco-systems in urban areas and includes works aimed at creating as favourable conditions as possible for visitors to stay, raising aesthetic and recreational value to urban park forests. We now have the law that the Republic of Croatia can entrust the units of local self-government with the management of urban forests. And now we come to a situation where the same word is urban but not the theme regulated by this law, but I will point out. Namely, it is about the objection of the Association of Students of Urban Forestry. They point to a series of illogicalities related to their study and further employment in their profession. Thus, they stated that the masters of urban forestry engineers cannot take an expert test for the authorised ecology engineer, nature protection and urban forestry because, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation on the content and manner of the examinations for authorised forestry and wood technology engineers, the criteria for the submission of all professional examinations are the same, i.e. pursuant to Article 4, paragraph 1, of that Regulation, the right to submit an expert examination shall be those who have graduated from the university programme of graduate forestry engineers or wood technology, i.e. persons who have graduated abroad if they are recognised by special regulations the identity of an international diploma. However, according to the supplementary amendment in the study in the field of education in question, there should be greater qualifications than the colleagues who have completed the general direction. Furthermore, since masters are engineers of urban forestry, nature protection and the environment by the chamber of forestry engineers and wood technology located in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture are not considered qualified to carry out authorised works in the field of forestry, despite all the facts mentioned above, they wonder why then the University of Zagreb forest college produces every year where there is no work market. They are therefore calling for amendments to existing legal, sublegal acts that will allow future students and those who have already completed this study to pass an expert examination from the professional field of forestry for authorised forestry engineers to find their place on the labour market. I know this law can't solve it, but it's important to point out this problem, that this problem exists and that it needs to be solved. The law has much improvement, there are much better solutions to some articles, or some situations than before, many things are more detailed even though there are still a lot of objections to it. The HNS club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86639	Thank you. Now let's go to the club of representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86640	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished State Secretary with an associate. Here's the HSS Club welcomes that here we have in the second reading The final proposal of the Law on Forests because we consider this important law to be a total for Croatia, especially for forest management and for wood industry in the Republic of Croatia and of course for other branches based on forestry in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is rich in forests over 48% of the area is under the forest. And what makes Croatia recognizable is that most of our forests are naturally renewable, which is rarely what the country still has, and we have to keep it safe. And that is why it is good that the Law mentions the creation of a National Strategy for Forest Management and Forest Management Programme, and it is not good that we still do not have it, but through a series of laws, this area is regulated and certainly through this strategy we must find a balance between the need to preserve forests, preserve this biodiversity, have sustainable forest management and, on the other hand, to meet the needs of our wood industry for raw materials as well as the new needs for biomass that arises and which are growing demands in front of our society and the public authority of the Croatian Forest and other private forest owners. And we certainly need to be sensitive to our wood industry because it is already somewhere near or over 10% of total RH exports and there are over 50,000 employees. It was not a good policy for us from the HSS where it went with the public authority of the Croatian Forests to go after greater income, or higher profits, instead of looking for models and ways to secure more raw materials for our wood industry, which we still require to go towards those, according to greater finalisation, according to greater income and more jobs right in Croatia. And we welcome those initiatives that went to promote our wood industry through that tree program is the first and we now have a series of objections that through public procurement, through investments funded by the Republic of Croatia from its sources of finance, but from eu funds that in tenders especially in public institutions, public buildings have not given priority to wood and wood products which would certainly strengthen our wood industry's position and increase the number of jobs in the Republic of Croatia. I think it can be a simple administrative move, no one forbids us to install it in tenders to install more trees in such public investments and thus raise the wood industry in the Republic of Croatia and preserve this rural space because it is always our people living with the forest and the forest and it is sad to see our people when they comment so why they cut everything down. It says these are worse than the Mlječana, although I know that Croatian forests have been well managed and for 250 years we have a tradition of forest management and forestry in the Republic of Croatia, but it is unclear why different data appear about the annual floor cuts the forest between 5.4 million cubic metres and 7 million cubic metres. And there are different sources, and there is a need to coordinate that we are not creating any further confusion among citizens about it and about industry. Of course we must also guarantee when we are already investing in the wood industry and the long-term sustainability of these capacities and creating preconditions for the opening of new plants, not that it happens to us as promised to build a woodworking plant in Vukovar and ultimately none of it will happen. I think such initiatives should be supported, but also found a way to make it sustainable forest management and that our wood industry has a sufficient amount of raw materials. I'd further look back at the situation monitoring in our forests. There were a number of scientific gatherings where climate change was being monitored and their impact on the forests, so you saw that we had problems with ice-colds, fires, and we didn't quality-set ourselves because we were one of the countries in Europe that didn't use funds from European funds to repair fire damage, as Spain or Portugal did, and the question is why we were here unprepared, why we didn't respond better. And especially now is the big problem with the network oak bed in Slavonia where large areas of Slavonian oak are infected and where even the waist still has no quality answer how to repair these damages and how to prevent further spread. It should be commended for this profession from the Faculty of Forests of the Institutes that have had a number of scientific research and have already evaluated all the results in Austria and other scientific conferences, but what is a problem with the lack of resources to monitor such scientific research projects. The debate also promised to increase funding for such projects this year, but on the other hand, it goes with a decision to reduce revenue from the common useful functions of the forest, to allow entrepreneurs to charge their business to 3 million kuna of the total gross income that we from HSS welcome. But we insist that this part of the funds, that's about 20 million kuna, will be less revenue from this title, not to reduce that amount for funding scientific and professional research because we see that this is a need and when it comes to networked bedbugs as well as when it comes to the carrot's footer in the Gorski Kotar, whether over 30% of the forest is infected in the Gorski Kotar, and we have to keep it. When it comes to private forest owners, it should be pointed out that there is a major problem of unresolved property relations and they have already sent letters and requested joint meetings and that a solution is found in cooperation between the two ministries and the State Geodetic Administration to resolve to have quality records of what is state, which is private forest property and that they can manage better to resolve these property legal relations because they themselves will not be able to do so. There was also an objection between them to the ministry in the construction of this law on the division of small, medium and large by the Austrian model, where only the area of the forest was taken into account, instead of installing the economic value of the substance in that forest. Because it's not the same oak forest in Slavonia or maquis in Dalmatia, and I think that these divisions also give rise to obligations, so it was supposed to be better placed there, but of course it's hard to please everyone. But I think these little private forest owners deserve that attention to be helped as well as to develop forest management programs and to monitor the health status of the forest because they don't have enough expertise or the quality of the people who would do those jobs, and the penalties are pretty high in those criminal provisions, and there we have objected in our first reading. We see that the other same obligations, the same penalties, it's not good, and it certainly won't help to create order among private forest owners, and we all aim to have order in that area. When it comes to the mentioned article 38, where HSS together with Mr. Ivan Lovrinović had a bill to legally allow our residents living in the edge areas by the forest so that they could go freely without the obligation to report to forests and pay compensation to read forest fruits and other non-wood masses. We went on purpose with the bill of law and it is not good that the law referred to in the procedure before this law was not resolved in the second reading and the final decision was made but was followed by this law, and this bill is still pending. And to make it even more beautiful, what we suggested to enter the law, the minister made it possible in January. So don't all that opposition proposes to refuse, and then rule it out and thus score cheap political points. It was not our goal to gain political points but to enable those inhabitants living with forest and forest, who have always traditionally gone into the woods to get mushrooms, chestnuts and other fruits so that they can do so in the future. And it's not good that it's not in the law because tomorrow the minister will change, so it can change the rule. This is what we wanted to change and what the public expects from us and from you. He also caused a lot of confusion in public in Article 56 where it says that foreigners can acquire ownership of Croatian forests according to some internationally valid contracts. Absolutely, the HSS is against any stranger gaining ownership of Croatian forest, and I do not understand, I would like to hear from the secretary of state who are international contracts that are stronger than our national interests that domestic natural resources, which are forests, our greatest wealth to be acquired by foreigners. I don't think it was supposed to be in the law and that we had to avoid it, not allow it. In my opinion and according to the HSS, no international treaty should be stronger than these national state interests of the Republic of Croatia, our wood industry, our forestry industry. Also mentioned here is the problem of students who finished urban forestry, I already had a question for the secretary of state and the minister. We didn't get an answer, they said that there are several amendments to this proposal, where we're going to propose that once we've already introduced urban forests, when we have people who have completed colleges as engineers or masters of forestry, that even people who have completed urban forestry have the right to take exams, to be licensed and to do the same and similar jobs as their colleagues who have completed the basic programme of the Faculty of Forestry. So we're going to install in a few articles that these jobs can also be done by urban foresters, so we're going to see what your reaction to these amendments will be, and I think they deserve to be installed. And you mentioned them in one article, and then I don’t see any reason why some other articles don’t get the opportunity to do the same work so that they can get a chance to get a job. Also, I mentioned that it is not good for licensed contractors to work, companies in Croatia can work both the link and the cutting and the accompanying papers for... and that there were a number of irregularities and objections from the field, above all from the small private forest owners that they couldn't get, that they wouldn't come in time, that there was a time when in nature it was suitable for cutting down forests, and on the other hand that there was an unauthorized trade in wood even though we had passed the Law on the tracking and traceability of wood, but there was an irregularity and our suggestion was to keep these jobs still working as the forest advisory service did before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We now have an agricultural and advisory forestry service, we have over 30 employees of forestry masters in the agricultural and advisory forestry service, I see no reason why they can't work at least for private forest owners and thus allow young people with completed forestry to be employed in the agricultural and advisory forestry service, and on the other hand, to make better arrangements for this area and that people have a quality service and that they can monitor their private forests, monitor their health status, work out, cut and have quality papers in time and trade in wood. We'll also have an amendment to that part of the Law that concerns only the making of wood. Namely, it's good for and it was a proposal in our colleague Lenart's first debate to increase from 20 to 30 cc's for your own needs, thank you for accepting it. But you didn't accept the second part of our proposal that went after the family agricultural economy, and we passed the OPG Act and allowed the OPG to register for additional jobs and additional activities in forestry and if they have professional people who are trained for work in forestry, why not allow them to have additional activity, additional income in those months when there are no agricultural works, that they can make up to 500 cubic metres for their own needs and for placing on the market. And we're going to install that, propose an amendment. I think it would thus help that a number of family farms have additional income, to stay alive in that rural area, and on the other hand to be controlled by professional services of Croatian forests and agricultural and advisory forest services and thus to keep everyone satisfied, and that our citizens have what to warm themselves with and that they have income from the same. Here, the most important remarks that the HSS Club has and what we all want to do together are to continue to be sustainable, to ensure a sufficient amount of raw material for the domestic wood industry, to enable higher employment, and I have already mentioned that we can also raise employment in the wood industry through only one small administrative procedure, through public procurement to more install trees in investment through tenders and certainly in this way we can contribute to making it one of the demographic measures and preserving rural space and raising the quality of life in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem and all other areas rich in the forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86641	Thank you, too. We're going to now to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Dear fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86642	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. It's always interesting when speaking of laws like this, we come from what we say, what we like to say, so when we listen to something that bothers people where we are. Also today, there was a county assembly in Vukovar-Srijem County just now talking about the state of forestry. And there was a key statement from a fellow councilman who said, this is our fortune. There's wealth in the woods. I said, well, but I don't see that being rich can be used the way we expect it to be. That's what the mayor said, but we made the declaration. Great, I say, Mayor, are your representatives of the ruling majority, here we have two, do they know what it says in that declaration? What exactly is stated inside, will any of them today defend what is stated inside? We adopted at the county assembly a piece of paper sent to the government of the Republic of Croatia. All that has happened so far, in fact no single change has happened, not a single part of that declaration is appreciated, I would say then it probably ended up in some recycling, because that's the only benefit of such a document. What's the problem? The problem is that wood mass, especially that very valuable, oaks, occurs in a spa pool in the area of the Vukovar-Srijem County, is growing much wider, even better if we speak here in Slavonia area, but we see that they are still leaving. And what should be added value in production in the Vukovar-Srijem County disappears in a way that the only more significant processor who said he was unhappy with this distribution is Spačva in Vinkovci. The only investment that was said to happen, change the situation in the town of Vukovar, employ 500 new workers, has disappeared, has been silent, I mentioned today to the deputy mayor, where? Where'd it go? What happened? Is that still a priority? It's 500, 400, so there's 150 workers. It seems to me that there are currently 0 workers left there. Why am I telling you all this? I don't want to bring you down to what is local, perhaps to us who are from the Vukovar-Srijem County one of the important topics, but when we look at just all the articles in this law relating to the relief of deforestation, the repurpose of the forest, whether this is meant by that repurpose that would take place in my county, in one of the Slavonian counties or we will share this law and we will say in one area of Croatia by project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema, there we will be dealing with forest cultivation, there we will be dealing with cutting forests, the other part of Croatia they will probably process it all, and the third one, they will crush and build golf, camps and all that they need. I'd like to see what golf course is going to take place in Slavonia, I haven't heard of any serious initiative. I believe that this law, it has nothing to do with Slavonia, it simply doesn't apply to us living in Slavonia because it simply seems to me to be another country, it seems to be another country, because there is only a tree with me. No balls, no bats. It's just a tree. And what are we talking about in the law? Most of it refers to public forest owners, Croatian forests which have become a transfer instrument between any ruling option and is managed slightly towards one, little to the other, perhaps those who are always somehow found to be just, they complain we do not function. By talking to some processors who acquire exclusively wood mass on the market, they say and we are profitable. What did we create? We have created Croatian forests that are not efficient enough, which are lords in a way that preserves wood mass, but the ultimate result, with the incentive price allocated under the quotas, does not create a competitive industry. We are not creating an industry that will be able to resist a market game in some future period, but we will continue to protect it as long as we can, and one will end it, and therefore a strong initiative is that, with this law that can be better, worse, everyone agreed here, there should certainly be more significant progress in the law relating to wood processing, the use of wood. Because it seems to me that there's a oak used somewhere, and somewhere only a oak furnier is used, and even that splinter inside doesn't have the oak content safe anymore, because it's being exported to Italy through the pellets. It's actually the industry that we created this way. What is missing is precisely in these political turmoils, decisions and competitions, who will go faster to that tree, who will process it faster, quickly deliver it in any of the most basic versions, instead of what we all seek, which is the ultimate product that ends directly in trade. With all the effort that seems, through the words, I think now is a mature time and to make efforts in actions. Another problem that arose significantly and was addressed overnight, which is a question of the warm needs of the population. Contracts were concluded, a tree was delivered for energy needs by those producing renewable energy sources. After that, there was a panic. There's no wood for the population. And right here, perhaps such a significant sentence is missing that a primary consideration is to be taken of the settlement of the needs of the population for the heating tree. The rest that is behind it is that it can be redistributed, whether it will go into the processing of the pellets, whether it will go for the energy needs of renewable energy sources, that is something that certainly no one will ask the question, but the question of how we will develop co-existence between renewable energy sources and the needs of the population, the population that is poor, who hoped that through the favourable prices of gas, which through some other sources will have cheap energy, is now returning again to the very time that the motorbike became the main winter tool. You go, you cut what you can, the way you can, and this law definitely brings another obstacle. If you see what punishments are for private forest owners, those small ones, we're talking about the smallest ones, who simply from one tradition have certain forests that master the way they need, fill, plant through generations. ... but you must have the authority to come because you yourself to cut off the engine there you can be punished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is why it is necessary to make clearer distinctions, which is a tradition, which is traditional life in rural areas, which is the need to expand in urban areas, which is the need to expand for the needs of tourism development and clearly divide it so that it does not happen that someone in Dalmatia discusses warm wood as a priority, that someone in Slavonia discusses golf as a priority rather than that clearly each of them has its place and its own. I'd wonder, here's my community if we could bring me a new spatial plan and say here for the golf course we'll cover a part of the forest and there, what would you say? These guys aren't normal, who's gonna come to them. And this law also says that do not banalize the issue of Slavonia, do not mess with issues such as the project Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, that it remains only a floscula, but really prepare something that will make a change. With all its positive things, this law does not make a single change that will ensure the maintenance of any jobs in Slavonia, will not create any new jobs, will not retain any young person and this is the problem of any changes to the laws that we approach, eventually will increase social support and similar laws, and what is expected to move real, where a break in the situation is expected to target the resources that have rural areas to be their source of income there has been scheduled. By estimating all the efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture, appreciating all the good that it has done within the Croatian forests to preserve what we must admit, I am afraid that we have now received a law under which we are pressured by this very good practice that they too begin to change and then bear witness that this esteemed home has passed a law that will be just another law that speaks of golf, golf and golf only. I do not know whether there will be a single law that applies to any form of state property, any form of natural wealth in which golf is not listed as a particularly national important investment that will change the situation in Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem in Lika, Sinj or anywhere else. I wish we had that kind of effect of the law right now. Build golf courses with us so tell us this is exactly the contribution that we have been here because this is how you're going to miss a worker who's going to be there, hairy, serving guests and best then to move away without importing labor, I don't know from which country because we see and with increased work permits it doesn't work anymore. We've made an appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86643	We're moving on now to an individual debate, first in line, colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86644	Thank you very much. We're talking about the Law on Forests, the forest covering means a huge part of the territory of 37% of Croatian territory, it's about 2.5 million hectares... In the woods, 81% are national forests, 19% are private, so one huge potential. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact is that with this law that's... The law on golf in the Croatian Forests and the law on how to reach land foreign investors, i.e. how to become owners, foreigners because simply Article 56, which is a key article, is essentially this story where it is described in the article as being unable to become foreign natural persons and legally become owners of land and then a decimal, if different international contracts are not signed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, it is known what is signed and means that this item should be deleted because it simply has to be foreigners, foreign natural and legal persons who own one of the largest resources that covers the largest 37%, more than one third of our territory, the mainland is talking about it being threatened and national security mostly domicile residents because we need to know, recently when I was in Gorski Kotar we have saws, we have people, we have knowledge, but it's the same tree from Gorski Kotar, I said in my first reading, from Gorski Kotar exports to Italy and with them our people go to their sawmills and there they create additional value. That's the key to the problem. Which is why the domestic population, with its sawmills, with its knowledge, with its experience of wood, does not create any additional value from these balvanies, but in Italy exports and our people are moving out and that is one of the demographic measures. I know fellow Panenić mentioned that we are for a renewable energy source of microsolarium, but of course in these areas people should have as much cheaper or literally free heating and economics as there is much more need for heating than in other parts of the Republic of Croatia in Gorski Kotar. So it should be a demographic measure, we should strive to keep people living in places, for example I mentioned to Slavonia, but here's Gorski Kotar where people move to do jobs that they traditionally do in their environments and now they do it in Italy from our raw materials. So where's the logic? So import lobbys targetedly export our products in quotas, our means, our raw materials and additional value is furniture made by our people in Italy and then sold on our territory in the Republic of Croatia in stores. It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make any sense. A demographic measure for Gorski Kotar should be as cheap a tree as possible in production and for heating. So this whole economic potential is going to our side. How is it possible that cheaper furniture in Italy than our product and our people from Gorski kotar go to work there, and we have sawmills and people. I mean, it's not clear, logically, it's not clear why. By this law I said that we will amend the Bridge and I will personally ask, but the Mosta Club to delete this article if it is not specified by international contracts to the parties, is this law intended. We have areas burned down, and now foreigners will be able to buy the country, although they say in the article, foreign individuals can't buy land unless it's different by means of an international contract, and by means of an international contract, who knows what ours have signed? Ours has been paid so far, the Croatian state has paid 30 billion kuna in the EU, and returned 900 million 3%. So we need to ask ourselves, it is not a question that we Europeans, smaller Europeans, Europeans are less advanced, it is an unprofitable fact that Croatia did not go well in this globalisation as far as the EU is concerned, we did not go well. We want to review it, not in agriculture, not in forests, not in woodworking production, and 37% is covered in our territory in forests. And we import furniture from our raw materials from other countries. Logics aren't in this law either. What's going on with this law? In these urban areas where the Croatian forests are, golf courses will be provided, where it is burned will allow foreigners to buy. Basically this is the law on golf courses in areas and the colleague mentioned that there are no these golf clubs, but good can be from wood I guess I don't know, you can be on the manufacturer, you'll probably be doing it in Italy or some other country. So we don't have the courage to protect the native population from being cheaper heat raw material, does winter not last in the Gorski kotar as it lasts in Dalmatia on Hvar. And they have this resource and potential and the businessmen need to use that energy cheaper as a tree. However, the import lobby is obviously an interest here, as well as in agriculture, so is the exclusive economic belt. Look, it's neither the exclusive economic belt nor the protection of our forests, we've all allowed foreigners to hunt us down. We paid more in the EU than we paid back 3%. Therefore, I wonder if there is any authority in this House to discuss it. I know you're going to say that's populism, yes, and populism isn't saying here we're going to give a thousand euros for the newborn and who cares, you know that measure doesn't achieve anything. These measures achieve that this tree, this heat, this material is cheaper to the domicile population, to be used in our sawmills raw materials do we have people. And this is how we send people to the side of the sawmill, and We send them along with the logs in the column. It happens in the Gorski Kotar, it happens in Slavonia, it happens and 37% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is under the woods. The largest resource, most of it is under the woods and it is renewable and can be used. Well, we've banned our locals from picking asparagus. Here's a fellow Babic in you not to read asparagus, he's caught by an inspector if he's ever caught more, he has to justify it all, it works, and he has to charge a man 5 kuna per asparagus for how much I don't know, and you're reading asparagus and you haven't been punished, and I'm probably reading them. We therefore speak here of the fact that Croatian forests must be used as development, as a very important raw material that we must use, mainly in these areas which are rural areas. No matter what we do in the Bridge, we weigh microsolars, it was forbidden to film but it doesn't matter, it was probably seen by people, the cartoon was very simple to show facts because of the necessary microsolars, but in these areas we can use both heating and the population and the households and in the economy. Here's my colleague Bacic on Korčula. You're reading asparagus. Do you read asparagus on Korčula? Do you have a ticket? And it could be, I know it's down there. Therefore, the fact that this law, as I said, is made for golf courses, that forest owners become foreigners as well as in agriculture, is it possible by this law in Article 56 if you can see it all, Article 56 is allowed for foreigners to become forest owners and that's the story. Obviously, it will suit you as many fires as possible, the more foreigners will buy it if there are always fires near urban areas. Therefore, once again we will have amendments, I am sorry that no minister has come to defend this law that is very important. I don't see any reason, perhaps the PRovski is not popular and the Deputy Prime Minister is very important are Croatian forests, they are important for demographic restoration, it is a potential for the survival of people in these areas and for economic and economic development. and I think this is a very serious topic, and in this way we simply give foreigners to become owners of a large part of Croatia's forests, to do golf courses, and that our people go to work in other countries than our raw products, an additional value that we will buy on shelves in Croatia. And that's why I think this law needs to be taken more seriously, we're going to give a number of amendments, we said in our first reading, we also pointed to problems. The problems of the law are written for certain groups of people and are suitable for foreign importers and we don't know our lobbyists or who lobbyists. And just the other day when there was talk of savages, the damage to agriculture, so I said they're not the problem with the gamer's farm damage, that's the least of the problems. The greatest vermin are within the ministry, these are vermin as well as in this case written by the law. Is this law a pity for the Republic of Croatia, this is not a demographic restoration of these areas, but a pity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86645	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. Five of them total. It's first order of business, Mr. Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86646	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Bulj, you were talking about the Gorski Kotar, we were in the Gorski Kotar together, and we talked to the mayors there, Delnica, Chabra, Vrbovski, and they told us what the problems were. So not only did the state take them out of its main resource, but they have to repair from their budget the roads these freighters do when driving a tree. However, there is one area that is very rarely used in this House, which is totally devastated, it is also Žumberak. It is specific and we can compare it because there are two sides of Žumberka, it is Slovenska and Croatia and exactly how the Slovenian side has arranged that part because it has recognised it as a tourist potential, and in fact Žumberak our Croatian side has all been devastated and the forest is scattered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86647	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86648	Thank you very much. Well, we were in the Gorski kotar with the mayors of the Gorski Kotar, and people point to this problem that I said simply that wood resource, they don't have any homestead, they have more import lobbys, they pay cheaper in quotas, they export to Italy than these people for themselves, for heating. Or entrepreneurs who can use it for heating, heating and energy. That simple energy is the most important thing. In this area we have wood-shaped energy, but it does not benefit the development and survival of people in the area and it is one of the demographic problems. The forest should be just the forests in Croatia that are 37% of the area, 2 and a half million hectares, meaning that they should be the basic development element in the economy, as well as the survival of people in these areas and in Slavonia, both in the Gorski Kotar and in the forests you mentioned. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86649	Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86650	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, on several occasions you mentioned the golf course. The golf courses in this Assembly were days and days, on the golf course were indeed several times in a public debate. This law will not allow the construction of a golf course and you do not have to be afraid, the golf course will not be in Croatia. So far in Croatia we have as many as I know 3 golf courses. One in Zagreb, one in Istria and one in the Cardinal Valley, which is no longer a golf course, is submerged. Some constructions that have been spent have failed, golf courses in Croatia are no longer interesting to golfers, but they are interesting 2, 3 golf courses on a pile and you don't have to be afraid. We this law, one, the other, will not allow the construction of a golf course in Croatia and it should make something else possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86651	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86652	I think, as an expert on planning and space, you obviously have that information and you think it's so important and okay. However, the facts tell us that not by declaring exclusively an economic belt that we have no harm, but we do have damage. That's how it got through here so foreigners can buy our forests by international contracts, and they have money. I repeat again, the natives in this area are moving and from this raw material to other countries are making finished products, extra value, so I don't know. There's a possibility of buying here, which is where the interests are behind, I don't know. Like agriculture, because the huge damage to agriculture is import lobbys and golf or other things, I don't know. All I know is that this law is not what it should be, and that's for the development of the Republic of Croatia, and mostly in these areas, 37% where the woods are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86653	The third replica of the esteemed colleague Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86654	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bulj, I came forward for the reason you mentioned golf, and that's what Mrs. Mrak-Taritash was talking about. So it can't be given to investors to build a golf course by this law, not by the forest law. The law was passed in 2014, allowing the right to build a golf course according to a spatial plan where camp or golf, forest land, on forest land, is allowed to build a golf course, so it is not necessary to say what it is not, to scare people with the sale of Croatian forests. There is talk about giving the right to build golf courses or camps where the spatial plan provides for building a camp, or where it is possible to build a golf course. But that is not true, there is no acquisition of the right of ownership in that part of the forest, so it would be good for you to correct yourselves in that work. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86655	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86656	Comrade Bačić, I know why I said this, because golf is mentioned in the text of the law, but less important. See this article, paragraph 2. of Article 56. Foreign persons and those natural persons who do not have the nationality of the Republic of Croatia or other EU Member States and legal persons who have registered office outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia or other EU Member States cannot acquire the right of ownership of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. I agree, additionally, unless an international contract provides otherwise. Well, we all know that it's been determined, that hands were raised, that they were being courted, just to join the EU, this article is either too high or to deceive the public. So this point is important and delete this decimal and then I'll say the eyes, you work in the interests of Croatia, Croatian forests, Croatian peoples, domicile inhabitants, this is a fog read well, and in fact allowed by foreigners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86657	Let's move on. Dear colleague Lenart, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86658	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, here's the power it should be, that's it. Government of the people, for the people. However, this law shows that it is not. We all know that all those involved in the traffic of wood mass have been very well-funded for all these 27 years. Reading fruits, so I think what we need to report to someone or those who go there and if they're allowed to brother fruit. Who's gonna call somebody on Saturdays and Sundays, who's gonna call? I think it's too high and it needs to be thrown out and it doesn't have to be answered. We encourage the use of green energy, we encourage the use of biomass to limit that amount for heating, but it is becoming harder to get wood for heating. I've been warming up my whole life on biomass to a tree, but every year it gets harder, more and more expensive, and already slowly, a single meter comes in about 300 kuna, it's hard to find it, let alone go to work alone because it's just not there anymore, there's no forest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86659	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86660	Well, I'd agree, first of all, it's impossible for the population to pay money to pick fruit, I said asparagus because I don't know what, it's catastrophic. And I believe, here I was mentioning to my colleague Bačić that he was on Korčula reading and I don't know if he paid. Does anyone have a payment card that picks to pay for it? You have placed burdens and burdens into the law according to the domicile population at the same time as the import lobby favours the export of finished balvanies which, where additional value is created in other countries, is an example of Gorski Kotar where people from Gorski Kotar work in saws in Italy. And we got sawmills, we got resources, we got people. Therefore, and here people are forbidden to read, be careful not to keep the wooden heat cheaper than they are forbidden to pick asparagus. Put some oil in the barrel and so, that's okay then. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86661	Here's the last replica of a esteemed colleague of the Vesligai, and maybe he's picking asparagus, too, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86662	And rarely. Here, my colleague, I'll just take a moment, since the Croatian forests are our biggest employer in state forestry, it's actually about a very centralized system. And instead of using this law for one decentralisation, for... Management and for giving real financial benefits to those local units whose area is forests, we presented today in this second reading this one small step forward and this is raising the forest contribution to 10% as if it would help local self-government units now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Perhaps in the assisted areas of the Republic of Croatia that and will mean something financially but it refers to all of Croatia. And then you have this forest contribution that's worth about two, three thousand kunas to you, you need to work for it to make the whole availability plan available to you and you can only be used to maintain municipal infrastructure. On the other side of the road, as much as they're destroyed when the woods pull the varieties out, it's, it's huge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86663	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86664	In Gorski Kotar, probably in the area where the Croatian forests are local self-government is obliged to build road infrastructure. And the damages that are huge, huge damages from trucks, road crossings, infrastructure, local underclassified roads, local self-government, which is in a difficult position anyway, and there are no conditions for winter, an example of Gorski Kotar, is probably something better in you too, there are no conditions for that, maintaining winter service, let alone repair the road because it is not, it is simply a ruined road, there is no money for it. Therefore, there is also injustice to local self - administration and the domicile population, and surely this law should be much fairer. 50:50 should be a profit in order to survive the people here and that this local self-government could develop. It's like state property when they sell land from your unit of local self-government and all the money goes to the state's register. Which is why 50% of you wouldn't be left with you and you're obliged to build a communal infrastructure, it's a disaster, it's centralization.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86665	Thank you. We are going to the next individual debate of a respected colleague, Tomislav Lipoščak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86666	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on the Forests, and after the debate in the first reading, I would just like to take a brief look at a few things that I consider important and that I would like to underline in this debate. In the first place, I must express my satisfaction that you recognize all the benefits and importance of the common useful functions of the forest, and that both so many times and in this place, the disputed compensation for the generally beneficial functions of the forest has nevertheless been retained at the level at which it was before the adoption of this new law. Even though I believe myself sometimes boring myself, I will repeat once again in this High House in which the funds from the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest are allocated. And they are deployed according to the proportion of forest and forest land areas in the Republic of Croatia and for the restoration and protection of forests, for demining, for fire communities, for equipment and training and for scientific works in forestry. Also this legislative proposal, in fact, by this final proposal of the law and all those entrepreneurs who make revenue less than 3 million kunas, are exempt from paying this fee, the fees for the general useful functions of the forest, and it is estimated that as much as 90% of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be exempt from paying this fee. The same is the assessment of the Ministry as much as we could hear that due to the planned new way of administration and the fees mentioned above, the revenue so far will be maintained as it has been these years. I hope that this will indeed be the case for all of the above but also for the very high importance of the common useful functions of the forest. Perhaps the most significant newspaper of this legislative proposal is actually raising the height of the forest contribution as well as liberating small forest owners from paying the same. The forest contribution is paid by all legal and natural persons selling wood assortants, the contribution is paid to special units of local self-government which should then be used exclusively for the financing, construction and maintenance of municipal infrastructure. And so far, the practice was that this forest contribution was 3.5 and 5% of the sales price in local self-government units, depending on what status they had, or whether they had the status of assisted areas, i.e. mountain and mountain areas, or whether they were other units of local self-government. Now that percentage rises from 3.5 to 5%, i.e. from 5 to 10% in assisted areas and mountain-mounted areas. Although we have heard different views about this, I would like to emphasise what this specifically means to us in numbers, i.e. we can say it in a simpler dictionary that this actually represents a financial injection to the budgets of units of local self-government that will mainly come from the position of Croatian Forest companies. If we compare data on the payment of the forest contribution by the Croatian Forests for 2017 and in 2017 more than 52 million kunas were paid in that position in the new way of accounting, we get an increase of more than 42 million kunas and we reach an amount of almost 95 million kuna. For example, I will take my forest management, the Ogulin Forest Administration, which is one of the smaller forest administrations in the Croatian forest system and according to this new legislative proposal, the forest management in Ogulin will pay an additional 2 million kuna to local self-government units, which will result in a figure of nearly 4 million kuna. This is a change that will very well help local self-government units, not solve all their problems, but it will certainly be one of the modes to close down certain problems that occur on the ground and I hope that these funds will be known primarily for purpose. The adoption of this new law also carries the need to adopt a series of new regulations and regulations, as defined in Article 96, and I appeal once again to both the Government and the Ministry to move to their adoption as soon as possible, precisely because of all those people on the ground who are directly related to this law, with the implementation of the law and in fact just acting in accordance with the law. In particular, in the field of the design and implementation of the management programme and the basics of forests, this is a transitional period, the period between the entry into force of the law itself and those normally 12 months, which is given a time limit for the adoption of regulations and regulations, very often quite one chaotic time, starting from itself, let's say, information solutions and implementation programmes, in fact for monitoring, both the foundations of management and the like. Finally, I would like to point out that organised forestry in Croatia, in this form as we know it today dates back to 1765 when the first forest management was established, was the management of the Karlova Generalate forest with 3 of its forests, it was more than 250 years ago. The start of the Croatian forestry society also dates back to 1841, only two years after the creation of the first forestry society in Europe, i.e. Germany. In 1860, the Economic Forest School and the Križevci Warship were established. In 1877, the first issue of the Shumar List was issued, which continues to date, in 1898 was established at the Faculty of Wisdom at the Faculty of Wisdom in Zagreb, 1908 a geodetic course at the Shumar Academy, which later grew into the Faculty of Geodetics, 1919. Faculty of Economics and Forestry, etc., etc. this way we could list for many more years and reach the forest profession for a long time. And this is all to encourage and actually point out in the future the need for additional investment in scientific work, of course, when conditions arise, whether through funds collected from the compensation from the general useful function of the forest, but also through other ways. Of course, as every time so far, I urge all of us once again to consider the return of the name of forestry in the very name of the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86667	Let's go to the replicas. Dear fellow Vesligai, come in. You're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86668	Thank you. You commended your colleague for raising his forest contribution. I don't mind in principle, because I've stood up for it, even in my first reading. But it bothers me the way we do it. We now raise for assisted areas and for mountain-mounted areas. All right, assisted areas of whether or not we should have gone with a more systematic approach and determined, because look among the assisted areas we have cities and municipalities that honestly have no problems with forests, or where there are no forests. As far as mountain-mounted areas are concerned, we haven't passed the law yet. And what I'm going to remind you is that in the draft of the law, I don't know how much you've looked at, that the mountainous and mountainous areas will be determined by the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia which I consider to be an extremely bad message, so the problem is much more layered and we should have one, I think, much more systematic approach here, and not always use it here, we're going to give to those in the assisted areas and mountainous areas. Because there are local units with major problems with the Croatian forests, however we are now helping them almost nothing but these 1.5% increase... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86669	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86670	I thank you and in fact in a good work I can agree with you, but we ourselves see that the Law on Forests is not the one that should define the issues of mountainous and mountainous areas and these graduations that you have said. And I agree with you that this work needs to be done and found a way to do so in a different way likely to satisfy, or to satisfy, all those involved in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86671	The second is the esteemed colleague, Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear colleague, my replica will be on the trail of this fellow Weldergay. So I also welcome an increase in the forest contribution by practically 100%, but I think that in the future it should seek to increase this forest contribution further, possibly to 30, 40%, because then these assisted areas, for example. My mountain cotter specifically, when I talk about it, would no longer be supported, nor would he need special help because he could live off the forest, as he had lived centuries before. And we, when we talk about the mountain-mounted law, when I'm a representative when I'm walking on the Gorski Kotar, when I talk to people there, and when we talk about the mountain-mounted law, then everyone says we don't need any help, we don't need any laws, let us live off the woods like we do for centuries, and we don't need any help from you. On the other hand, there is a good question as to whether the Croatian forests as a company which is lord to the forests that our wealth has to do at all in plus, somehow have millions of profits or this gain should be zero, or whether that profit should be returned to the middle of where it came from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86673	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86674	I thank my colleague. As far as I'm concerned, I'll start at the end of the Croatian Forests and win, I'm on the verge of your thinking. It means that, but in particular, we should take it back, but not in a way that you even mention that this forest contribution should go to 30%, I think it would be a much more concrete measure if we increased the implementation and traffic control on these roads which are very questionable because here the main burden is being placed on Croatian forests, and whoever was working in practice knows that the destruction of these roads and overloads is mainly not taken place with trucks of Croatian forests, but with trucks located in the overload and whose hands are tied to the Croatian forests because the procedure itself takes place in a completely different way and mostly past the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86675	We're going to the third line. Dear colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86676	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague, you're from the profession, so I'm interested in your opinion, this law that changes the terminology that has so far been respected in the profession, so deforestation of the forest, instead of pure cutting, cargo sheet instead of escorts, etc. When we talk about tradition, this is part of a tradition we shouldn't change. But what I'm still worried about, that's what I was talking about in my debate is that there's no possibility of a complaint. So, to refer the parties to the Administrative Court. What are we gonna do about it? We're just going to choke the courts, and if we're going to get more efficient flow into the system, I doubt it. And finally, this law mentions the strategy of forestry. I would like to hear that from the Secretary of State, perhaps in the final word, when this strategy intends to come out, will we have some public debate and when we adopt it because this law should actually be a tool to implement that strategy, not to bring it before the strategy. We got a little mixed up in the order.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86677	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86678	I thank my colleague. Let's start with the deforestation. On the trail of your question, deforestation is not really such a new concept and is mentioned in several and past forest laws, but also in documents and some sort of, let's say, postulate the profession. The difference between deforestation and clean-cutting is mainly considered to be deforestation or deforestation in a particular area where forests are no longer predicted or certain infrastructure procedures, gas pipelines, pipelines, etc. are envisaged, and pure cutting is mainly a term used in the regular management when ultimately patrolling is actually cut down trees that reach their physiological maturity and are actually replaced in a natural or artificial way by a new ingredient. As far as the forestry strategy is concerned, I agree with you, and in the debate in the first reading of the Forests Act, I also stressed the need to adopt the very strategy of forestry as a single long-term document that would actually remove forestry from day-to-day political movements and actually politicise a profession that is clearly defined by its own postulates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86679	Thank you. We are now going to an individual debate of a respected colleague, Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86680	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will only briefly discuss the problems of space-planned documentation in the forest area. As regards the Law on the Forests, it should certainly be arranged to respect all the necessary elements when it comes to the resolution of unresolved land which is used by legal and natural persons over the next years. Namely, when it comes to... For more than 20 years, individuals should be recognised as property or property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or municipal courts based on the Law on local administration and self-government should give it to the use of natural and legal persons. I therefore propose that, in this Proposal for a Law on Forests in Articles 51, Article 1 add, if forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the spatial plan of the municipality or the city was within the scope of the construction area or an isolated construction area until 31.7.2007 is recognised as ownership or ownership of units of local administration, and the Ministry of State Property will transfer it to municipalities or cities by means of a solution. Next, in Art. In 94, century 4, forest land, which was adopted according to a spatial plan prior to the entry into force of this Act, was covered by the plan as building land by 31.12.2007, should be returned to the disposal of units of municipalities and cities. Why am I suggesting this? Why is this necessary? It is necessary exclusively to reduce and bring the forest-economic base into line with the 2007 spatial plans. Secondly, many requirements that are in the process of resolving... ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Third, municipalities and cities would be decentralised to manage the availability of building land that would offer purchases for the resolution of building plots, whether built or new building plots for housing or economic growth or social development through the tender. The reason for my thinking is that we need to simplify the procedures and procedures of these municipalities and cities to assign that in accordance with Article. 152.157. The law on ownership and other rights resolves this to the general satisfaction of all those who are in the problem of solving ownership where the forests are users. For example, the state should act in the same way as in agricultural land that has left it to municipalities and cities available for 50 years, up to 100 hectares. Then why not do the same for building plots where family houses and various economies will be built. Finally, it should be installed in this Law as a safeguard corridor for the protection of housing units bordering forest land all to protect against fire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86681	Okay. We are now going to the final debate of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Dear colleague Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86682	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So, the Law of the Forests here, I would ultimately like to present our amendments because we consider this law very important. Otherwise, forests are extremely important and valuable, or overpriced, resources of the Republic of Croatia. So it's a renewable resource. Whether it's 5, 7, 10 or maybe more millions of cubic metres of wood mass a year. So that's a great potential. I'll just draw attention to how it's very important and how it's used. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia is signatories of the Paris Agreement and is obliged to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So the management of this wood mass has a lot of consequences for greenhouse gas balances. Wood bio mass as a fuel substitutes some kind of fossil fuel and thereby reduces and alters emissions, repairs the balance, but wood as a construction material has far greater effects because it is carbon-bound, so it is a permanent product and should strive and change the consumption structure in that direction. I think I've talked about this before. Here, we are, we want to be constructive, so the Most Independent Lists and we have submitted 11 amendments. I will pass quickly, respecting the time of all of us through them. So the first amendment changes the i.e. We propose a change of art. 1. We are ousting, i.e. replacing the term of sustainable management with sustainability, and when we look at the sentences, it now looks much better because it has three times the management. The second amendment in Article 3 defines this sustainability, therefore, because it is necessary in the end to define it although I think we all agree on what it would be, so it is less annual use of wood material than that which has grown at the level of the forest economic area, unless it is impossible to avoid it in the case of large calamities. Because I hope that when we talk about sustainability to stick to the full meaning of that term, so it's not a post-op without meaning. The third amendment with it gives a much better formulation of the fundamental objective of forest management, so I will say it here as an amendment three, so paragraph 1 is changed, and now the forest owners are lords of forests, trying to achieve the most biological benefits for ecosystems and the greatest economic benefits for society as a whole, while respecting all forest and biological laws of management, while maintaining and improving biodiversity and landscape diversity, and ensuring the protection of forest and eco-systems, and making them mandatory, etc. as follows in the second paragraph. With Amendment four, we reject the word to do in Article 10(1), see what it looks like, so it's much clearer now. Amendment 5 acts on Article 11, so it concerns the fact that it balances the use of available wood biomass and allows the local population to secure its needs, so that there is no crisis situation as it can now be seen somewhere that there is a strong rise in the price of heating and black market. Of course, I think that this is the consequence of an imbalance and that exactly the wooden cultures of short patrols can help here is, in any case, the economic activity of raising wood biomass production, so the pellets are good, but they can't be at the expense of the local population and we're thinking of resolving it by amendment five. Amendment 6 to Article 16 shall therefore be amended by the name of the article management and use of forests and forest land in forest management and forest land and their use, therefore, because it is much better. Amendment 7 Time's up? [[The incursion president: Thank you, time is up.]] Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86683	Thank you. We are now going to the final address, it is the re-respected Secretary of State, Željko Kraljiček, on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86684	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me finally thank all of you who participated in the debate, who made a constructive proposal and comments on this law, and we believe that on the principles of sustainable management in forestry, we will make the most important goal, which is to preserve our forests for the future, to ensure economic development and to help rural areas to employ their citizens from the welfare of forests and the entire sector, while at the same time taking care of our resources as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86685	We have one replica, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86686	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. I was expecting an answer to my question, which is when we can see a strategy for the development of forestry or a strategy for forestry in the Parliament? Is it the Ministry's office or not? About a year and a few days ago, the Minister told the Committee on Agriculture about the Agriculture Development Strategy that it was, until today, not that we didn't discuss it, we didn't bring it up, it's precisely because this law provides for a strategy, and I believe that we can all agree that strategic thinking is very important. I'd just like to know what stage he's in and if he's working on a strategy?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86687	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86688	Here's a very short answer. Here's what I believe is that with your support, we're going to get a new forest law, so we've said the assumption that as a ministry, we're going to bring the strategy itself. But as far as preparation for the creation of the strategy itself is concerned, we have already adopted the Strategy for the Development of the Wood Industry and the other accompanying laws, so we will come out very quickly with the guidelines and objectives of the future strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86689	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86690	The next item is - Declaration on amendments to the final proposal of the Forest Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 308 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. We're moving on to an amendment statement. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Agriculture, the Club of Representatives of HSS, MP Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, Željko Kraljinjak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Amendment number 1 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86691	The amendment is not accepted. The principle of sustainable management is clearly defined in Article 3. It is therefore not possible in Article 1 of the awareness of all unsustainableness, as this would be linguistically and unambiguously wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86692	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86693	Well, Secretary of State, just language, nomotechnically, if we look at the article ourselves, then there's management on the principles of sustainable management. I'm very familiar with this management of sustainability principles, so something's wrong with that, if you're already referring to the language and some nomotechnics, then I'd say that this proposal you have is incorrect, too. Maybe our guy's not that good, he might have a better solution, but he sure as hell ain't no good. We're looking for a vote on nomotechnics, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86694	Second amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86695	The amendment is not accepted. The definition of the principle of sustainable management taken over from the European Commission documents from 20.9.2013, at this point, we consider it optimal and fully appropriate with the same content being additionally regulated by the forest regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86696	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86697	Optimally, it's always a broad term, someone optimally when they can make up for a financial result that year, so they'll do a little bit more wood mass. It is always optimal for us to worry, to protect, especially such valuable resources as forests in the Republic of Croatia, to try, to increase its scope to the greatest possible extent. As long as the management is inside means something below the very limit of growth, then surely we're on a good path. In this way we can optimally cut a lot more than nature would want and as much more than our children would want in the future. We're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86698	SDP Representatives' Club, Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86699	The amendment is not accepted. It is on the expert side that the term "forestation and clean cutting" is neither synonym nor pure cutting is planned for forest plans or can be considered to be deforestation because the result of a clean cut is a young ingredient while the deforestation is done only when in order to change the purpose of cutting and we will no longer have a forest in that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86700	A representative of the SDP Representatives Club is not present. Amendment number 4 of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86701	The amendment is not accepted. The notional proposal for a provision does not cover all the necessary needs of professional expressions and the introduction of new concepts of the provisions contained exist unclear and ambiguous with the fact that Article 22 lists the forest according to purpose, forest land as well as forests of specific purposes and the same provision and definitions in accordance with the agreement with the authorities of the state administration which have experience and professional persons for the no-technical editing of this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86702	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86703	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, what you've given an explanation cannot be accepted absolutely. Thus, this law introduces the term “urban forests” which do not know the legislation in the area of spatial planning and construction. In this way you wanted to bring one legislation into line with other legislation, you decided not to accept it, and there will be problems in application but you will then answer, so there will probably come a change of law that you will have to define, now you have decided not to accept it. If it had been from another assembly, we would have accepted and asked for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86704	Fifth Amendment, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86705	The amendment is not accepted. The existing management guidelines in the first part of paragraph 1 are sufficiently comprehensive and clearly defined that the sub-paragraphs 1 to 10 can be easily subdued, while the proposed amendment introduces syntagmas and concepts which are ambiguous and unclear and would require a long-term review of forest science and a completely new legislative framework. In view of the ambiguities and doubts in terms of which it is the greatest biological benefit or the greatest economic benefit, which is contrary to the concept of the legislator and the purpose of the provision of the law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86706	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86707	Now, here's the truth of what I hear when I hear an explanation like this, then it takes me a while to process it for me to understand what you wanted because, basically, it's been working on these amendments and it's a forest profession, and it's perfectly understandable to them, and they've actually asked themselves to try to contribute through this so that some pioneering species of trees that are increasingly emerging have become our contribution to biological and landscape diversity, that's certainly not the goal we want to achieve. The goal is to autochthonous species of the species by which we are recognized as the Republic of Croatia, to be carriers of biodiversity and sustainability of the forest, but if you think that this amendment actually deviates from all kinds of forest practices, I will ask for a statement, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86708	The Sixth Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86709	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the expression of the very provisions is correct, meaningful and accurate because the word "to do" refers to the restoration of the demoted ingredients.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86710	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86711	Secretary of State, I'd like to be here maybe if Minister Divjak was so we could discuss exactly nomotechnics, language expressions. Surely she would be the most helpful in this discussion that we are having today, but here we are not, since we are neither of these professions, in order that we do not take any views, I believe that I will need to bring that up when it comes to the vote of our representative and she will see how much if all the public actually has a position on the language expression itself and especially on the forest waist. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86712	Amendment No. Seven. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86713	The amendment is not accepted. It is also the principle of sustainable management that a particular direction of forestry takes into account the social economic importance of forests and their contribution to rural development as well as the provision that determines that natural persons, meaning locals, can make heating wood from visited trees with the mandatory establishment of forest order for their own purposes and that we have so far had in proposal 20 cubic metres, we have now increased this by 50% to 30 cubic metres per family economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86714	Amendment No. 8. Excuse me, proposer's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86715	If I may, here, I would, if I may say something about it. If there wasn't any of these supply contracts... many energy plants that have taken over a good part of this particular material that should be heated to the population probably wouldn't even give us this amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're lucky because I'm much softer and more beautiful in my pronunciation than a fellow Bull who couldn't stay, he would have explained to you much more vividly why our people who live in areas where they expect to get wood mass now suffer. He suffers because he cannot come, suffers because of the price of growth, suffers because of what depends solely on good will rather than giving me, as a Parliament, as the highest body, a legal solution, to ensure that the needs of the Croatian population have priority. Because it's easy to talk about in the summer now, but as the heating season comes, it's just as these needs get more and more important. And I'm afraid here after the adoption of the law that we will again, like last year and even these years as it has been, have a situation where both the government and your ministry will be named again because there are no secured heatings that everyone thinks should be obtained. They might not even ask if you were to ensure that other energies were favourable, that the population could provide an alternative source, and then maybe it would have no value. If this energy, the electricity generated from this section were something that could be a substitution, then we would certainly welcome this model of sustainability of renewable energy sources and surely the population would support the entire programme. This way, I can only conclude in a series of amendments that you have refused to bear safe and personal responsibility and Minister Tolusic is also responsible for it. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86716	Thank you. Amendment No. Eight MPs, Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86717	The amendment is not accepted with the same reason that the principle of sustainable management is a particular direction of forestry, respecting the social economic importance of forests and their contribution to rural development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86718	The representative is not present. Amendment No. 9 SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86719	The amendment is not accepted. The law proposes a register of forest economy areas as a unique e-based database containing all data registers and for which they are the competent ministry while the Croatian Forests, advisory services as well as other authorised persons will have an obligation as well as the right to use the register with electronic access to the register itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86720	The applicant shall not be present. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Amendment No. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86721	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the statement of the title of the article is meaningful and... The content of the provision and this name of the article shall be accompanied by the expression of the entire text of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86722	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86723	Here we go again on the same subject. According to you, the use of forests is certainly linguistically correct. I'd say using a car, using a chain saw, using the pay phone you have, I don't know if I've ever heard of using the woods. What would I use with the woods? I'd use it, maybe in my discussion he'd deal with the woods, so that part might be the use of the woods. And really, so if the title you put in the management and use of forests and forest land, isn't it logical that the management of forests and forest land and their use? In this way I have a real problem just saying about the law that will become a standard for forest management. Think again if that's really the best suggestion you've got. I'm asking for a vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86724	Amendment No. 11. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86725	The amendment is not accepted for the implementation of the programme of protection, care and reconstruction, the responsible public institution is established in accordance with specific rules on the protection of nature, and we point out that the public institution is not authorized by this law to manage but only to implement it. Namely, if the programme is implemented by a public institution, it must, as a legal person, possess the appropriate license of the chamber. And through the conditions for the authorisation of a licence determined by the chamber, professional implementation and enforcement of forest work is ensured, which is within the framework of the rules which determine the jurisdiction and operation of the chamber as a special area of expertise and not of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86726	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86727	So the intensity of our amendment has just been that if the institution has a person, an employee who owns an appropriate licence that as such can carry out the full range and protect such a park in the best possible extent. You have to admit yourself that contracting an external service always has its limitations. Whether the contractual partner will perform all the actions that are necessary, whether he has enough time, whether he will have the possibility to deal in a way that the institution responsible for it, who wants the forest that remains functional under that park or the reservation to remain functional, remains alive, I would say, in the name of our own and in the name of the club, that we would limit the opportunities that would prevent the damages that occur, as we have in the park Marijan forest, and in this way we would speed up the processes where the professional person would recognise events, where we would intervene in time, where we would conduct the actions needed to prevent the greatest extent of the damage that we are now facing when the dying of the forest is then occurring and just the institution, the public park that manages it. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86728	Amendment number 12, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86729	The amendment is not accepted. This provision does not define the principle of management but of management powers, exceptions and scope of such management by ultimately setting out all persons authorised for management and use in the preceding paragraphs that the management of forests and forest land referred to in this Article shall be carried out on the principle of sustainable forest management in a manner and subject to the conditions laid down by this law and specific regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86730	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86731	So we have a difference in the priorities that we believe in the management that should exist in the principles themselves, in our view that is the key to putting it first, determines the course, determines the whole series of priorities that should be ruled in the economy. This is a proposal from one good intention, of course on the Proposer to accept it or refuse it, on most of it I also hope that at the vote we are looking for in this law that there will still be recognition of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86732	Amendment number 13, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86733	The amendment is not accepted. We believe that the statement calls the provisions meaningful and consistent with the content of the provision since it is determined by the management of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86734	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86735	Secretary of State, this article mentions neither the forest nor the forest land nor the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, but mentions a public forest owner. It defines what he is, what he does, how he acts inside of it. Therefore, the title does not correspond to the content and for this reason we believe that it is content if it is determined to speak about the public forest owner that the title should also be answered to the very purpose that you are, in fact, the promoter, you explain, this is only an observation that we do not speak later that we have developed a theme of forest management and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia but we only have provisions on the public forest owner. We're looking for a vote on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86736	Amendment number 14, club of representatives of the independent lists of MSOT.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86737	The amendment is not accepted. The content of the amendments has so far been addressed by the forest regulation and due to the diversity of individual situations that are impossible to predict.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86738	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86739	We had an opportunity to monitor the collapse of the ash not only in Croatia but in all of Europe, which took a big swing. All the forest complexes, hundreds of thousands of acres of ash disappeared in a short time. What's he gonna make up for? Are you sure there's enough forest reproductive material to make up for it? Therefore, it is justified that foresters also seek a solution that what they cannot regenerate in such a short time, restore, allow them to have space to rebuild the forest in such changed situations, not that after a certain period of time, this forest becomes a land that does not have its forest intention to fall, then it may become an exclusively agricultural plot or be given some other intention that is certainly not what the forest profession would want. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86740	Amendment number 15, Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86741	The amendment shall be accepted as it is a matter of nomotechnical addition in the course of the procedure of Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86742	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 16, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86743	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation to adopt operational annual plans by 31 December of the current year for the following year is prescribed for public forest owners, institutions, legal persons and large forest owners. The way in which an act can be adopted cannot be subject to the Law on Forests because it is an internal structure and manner of business of a company, a scientific institution, a legal person whose founder and owner is a unit of local self-government or a legal person in the capacity of a large forest owner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86744	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86745	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86746	Amendment number 17, House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86747	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that the content of the provision of paragraph 3 is considered that all conditions, including the employment of professionals, are settled through the granting of appropriate licences, which is within the jurisdiction of the chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86748	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86749	We're looking for a vote. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86750	18th Amendment, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86751	The amendment is not accepted. Using the term ‘loading list’ in this way, the conditions for the transport of goods are met and according to the rules governing road transport. The contents of the loading list will be prescribed by the Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86752	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86753	I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86754	Amendment number 19, House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86755	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of Article 37(5) lay down that the tasks, marking and issuing of cargo sheets are to be carried out by natural or legal persons holding the appropriate licence of the chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86756	The applicant's representative. You're looking for a vote. Amendment number 20, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86757	The amendment is not accepted, just on the professional side, the concept of deforestation and clean cutting are not synonyms, nor is pure cutting planned by forest-economic plans considered to be deforestation because the results of pure cutting of young ingredients while deforestation is done only in a certain space for changing the purpose where the cutting is done and we no longer have a forest in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86758	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86759	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86760	21st Amendment to the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86761	The amendment is not accepted. The provision of Article 46 preventatively protects possible changes, the purposes of forests and forest land in building land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86762	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86763	Thank you very much. I will ask for a vote on this amendment with a very clear explanation. On the contrary, the Law on the Forests for the first time tells our fellow citizens you are burning our forests, if you burn down the forest it will become a building area and it is absolutely unacceptable that such a provision be in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86764	22nd Amendment to the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86765	The amendment is not accepted. The provision of Article 50(3) expresses the social economic direction of this law, whereby, in the first instance, we used data from the field and real life with which the foresters meet in the rural area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86766	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86767	We didn't expect you to accept the amendment. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86768	Amendment number 23 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86769	The amendment is not accepted. The replacement provision provides that it is to be implemented for the purpose of bathing, which will be further developed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86770	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86771	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86772	Amendment number 24 Adviser's Club of Independent Lists Bridges.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86773	The amendment is not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia makes it clear that international contracts concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution are published in force, which form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86774	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86775	I mean, we're already running this subject through a series of your laws. I would like someone who comes as a potential customer to take over actually natural goods in the Republic of Croatia to really oppose the Croatian Constitution, to seek their rights under that Constitution and to have some way of security. I fear that when we pass on to legislation such a possibility, you have actually closed such a small door, opened a large door and thus exposed the Republic of Croatia to foreign foreigners taking over all our natural resources, moving from agricultural land, now in forest land, and ultimately not to sit here, one day the foreigners will probably sit in this Croatian Assembly, occupied positions, you will not be there, but someone who will also come to your place who will represent the interests of foreign citizens in the agricultural policy of the Republic. We will either be hired workers in their countries or we will be hired workers in the Republic of Croatia. But through this kind of action we all acknowledge together that we have lost the battle for the sovereignty that we have fought for, fought to be Croatia, that in Croatia is represented and Croatian interests, and in the end through these legal solutions, not only through this, but by refusing all amendments I have not heard from these yet, that there was not this unfortunate committee where you were actually through your mistake, so we went straight, we could say there is no need to sit here, there is no need to harass, there is no need to keep the ministers waiting for their turn, but let's go, let's watch the game, probably football will be the only salvation in the Republic. These laws can't help us, nor can they help us, nor can you, nor your minister, nor your government. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86776	Amendment number 25 of the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86777	The amendment is not accepted. The same argument, by provision of Article 146. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clearly prescribed that international contracts concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and thus published, which are in force, form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86778	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86779	I'll be really surprised when an HSS amendment is accepted. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86780	Amendment number 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86781	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of Article 146 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia make it clear that international agreements concluded and confirmed in accordance with the Constitution and published and in force form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86782	Representative Miro Bulj is not here. 27th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86783	The amendment is not accepted. The lease provisions are governed by one of the forms in which forest land is available, rather than agricultural land, and it is therefore an obligation and purposely to prescribe the framework of leases in law, and everything else through the regulation as a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86784	The applicant's representative. Are you asking for a vote? A SDP counseling club? The 28th Amendment is also the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86785	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of paragraph 3 shall focus on the financial agency FINA, whose activity is itself, on the charge for the general useful functions of the forest. The allocation and control of the spending of funds remains in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86786	I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86787	Amendment 29 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86788	The amendment is accepted because it is about nomotechnical corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86789	It becomes an integral part of the law. 30th Amendment to the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86790	The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form as follows: In Article 68(2), point 2 of the words sub-paragraph 3 is replaced by the words ‘paragraph 4’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86791	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 31 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86792	The amendment is not accepted. The provisions of Article 74 lay down the conditions for the conduct of inspectors' tasks according to the labour market situation, and therefore the years of experience for the performance of the tasks are set out in such a way as to successfully carry out the employment of the necessary inspectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86793	I'm a representative of the putter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86794	Thank you, Vice President. I demand a vote on this amendment. I don't believe it will go as the amendments don't go at all, and I think it's completely inappropriate for us to discuss the amendment in this term right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86795	Amendment No. Thirty-two. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86796	The amendment shall be accepted or nomotechnical corrections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86797	It becomes an integral part of the law. This is all over with the amendments. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86798	Final proposal of the Forest Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 308, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199(1) of the basic Regulation, The Rules of Procedure on such amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on the proposal that the Government may submit amendments after the debate has been concluded, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 1 abstention and 27 against the proposal that the Government can submit amendments after the debate is concluded, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Željka Kraljejska to explain the amendments submitted, there are 13 of them, so please explain all the amendments together and then we will open the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86799	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable Madam Representatives and Gentlemen Representatives. Amendment number one of the reasons for the proposed amendment to the provision shall be further language and content-compliant with this provision. Amendment 2 to the proposed amendment and the provision are further regulated, aligned with other regulations governing the jurisdiction of the chamber, which is responsible and responsible for the regulation of the area, the authorisation of licences as an area of expertise. The amendment proposed by the amendments to the provisions shall, in addition, in language and in substance, be brought into line with the terms set out in the spatial arrangement. Amendment 4 to the proposed amendment to the law shall be harmonised with other regulations governing the jurisdiction of the chamber responsible and competent for regulating the regional authorisation as an area of expertise. Amendment 5 to the title, i.e. erasure of the last part of the title, which reads as owned by the Republic of Croatia, is in line with the title of Chapter 1 because it has provisions relating to forests, forest land owned in private. The amendment of 6-13 shall have the same explanation, which is that the proposed amendment is aligned with the infringement provisions relating to the identification of trees in forests and on forest land, from the deleted provisions of paragraphs 3 and 4 to Article 4. 36. Amendment 13 to the proposed amendment is also aligned with the proposed provisions, for the purpose of erasing the provisions of the Article. 3 and 6 paragraphs 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86800	Thank you. We will now open a debate in which only club representatives can participate, reports counterpart Panenic on behalf of Mosta, reports counterpart Vlaovic on behalf of HSS and counterpart Mrak Taritas on behalf of GLAS. Let's go in turn, the first colleague is Panenic. Secretary of State, please take a seat, and you, your colleague Panenic, for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86801	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As many of you here who are in the hall have been discussing the amendments to the woods, very little. Today, what the government did, it's a shower to all of us, who discussed that day. I will ask the President of the Parliament no longer to be allowed not to, to discuss amendments in this way, and I will explain to you what. If you remember the first amendment we talked about, it's in Art. 1st word of sustainable management, replacing it with the word sustainability, was a purely single language correction which the proposer stated would rule on the principles of sustainable management. Management of sustainable governance principles. That's when I warned the secretary of state that it was actually management of sustainability principles. No, sustainable management, then we come actually, practically like that double negative. What do we have in front of us today? So the government says with the aim of providing management, when you look at this article, that's what happens. So by erasing with the aim of providing management, you get to the same expression, so you reject our amendment, because maybe it was just a way of shaping it was another, but the same sense, and then you'll have a situation here, that you'll accept a governmental one, which may have another linguist who shaped it in his own way. And Secretary of State, I asked you myself, here, I've asked several times, do you think that's right, you've stood before us, you've kept quiet, you've nodded your head and said yes, that's all right. And now you accept, you accept to change that. You really accept to change that. And then you refused, you said you couldn't. I would like to hear once again from the promoter, which has changed in that content, which is so different, that it can't be accepted then, and now it's accepted. In order not to be just an example, we have proposed an amendment to the management of a public institution national park or a strict reserve, what is it? We have suggested that if the institution has an employee, who has a chamber license, the institution can manage itself, with a proposal that was to entrust itself to a public forest owner, or, in private, depending on the ownership. That one amendment refused, what do we have now? Now in this amendment we have that a public institution can manage if it has a license. So the license gets an institution, but it doesn't have to have a licensed person. It's the same thing. In the end, it's the same content, the same way it's accessed. It's just, don't accept any single amendment to the opposition, then we were standing here, not just the Law on the Forests, but the Law on the Communist Economy, all and one amendment were rejected by the opposition. I'm telling you, just sometimes consider, this content, it didn't change significantly. What was made by changes is exactly what the government has sent us to the tables, that we should vote here today. And then you who voted, who will vote for our amendment against, then you will vote for the government, practically, will be adopted by the secretary of state, then we all turned out to be big fools here together. It's actually one mistreatment of us, disdain, content and one and the other amendments are identical, both sets are identical, only in one case you vote, I mean that primarily most against, in the other case you nod at what the government amendment will be accepted. I just understand that, logically, human cannot. But let's let democracy determine, that this is the best choice after all, I'm just saying that it's not correct, it's not at all in the spirit of debate about the quality of a certain legal solution. This is just showing off the muscles and I'm glad that someone recognized it, that it came to the government after all, that the government realized what the changes were and that it didn't allow this nonsense that came out of the agriculture ministry to happen in the vote. So the waist warned after all. Which channel did that to the government, I don't know. But I do know that the channel we tried to warn is not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86802	Thank you. We are now going to the club of representatives of HSS and respected colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86803	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. On behalf of the HSS Club, I express my dissatisfaction that we are now discussing 13 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Law on the Forests and what kind of amendments are these? Those who should have been resolved were already in the very procedure of writing and passing laws. It is amazing that the government in which HDZ, HNS and partners are thus considering managing and managing Croatian forests, the most important national resource, one law that should regulate the quality of this area, and it happens that there are language errors in the law, that they are not in line with other laws, with other ministries, and we know that every law must pass inter-resoral harmonisation. So what did you do? Why are you now putting us in a position to discuss amendments that have not even been seen, which have been put on our table today, which she has warned of, here are colleagues from opposition clubs and you do not accept them, and now you impose the same or similar amendments to discuss them and vote. And you're also refusing amendments to laws that have been passed by opposition clubs and amendments to the HSS. I remind you that together with my colleague Lovrinović, we have proposed that the law regulates that citizens can go freely to the woods and read fruits in the forest for their own purposes. You refused that law, and then the minister passed it by regulation after a month and arranged it and boast you got rid of it. So don't reject everything the opposition proposes, especially when it's good for our fellow citizens. You also refused our amendment, and when it comes to protecting the profession, the urban foresters. We study every year at the Faculty of Forests of Urban Forests, gets a college pass for this direction, and this law does not allow them to do jobs like their fellow foresters who have completed programs according to a very similar programme, the same number is ECTS points. You leave them on the sidelines, they'll get rid of it later on, something later on. Are we also suggesting that greater importance be given to the forestry advisory service because there are more than 30 staffed foresters who have graduated from the university of forestry and should be able to assist management and state forests and especially private forests because private forest owners are directed to licensed companies that must also come to them to supply trees and provide additional documents and ultimately be buyers, and these should also be done by forest owners employed in the forest advisory agricultural service. And we could get hundreds of other young people's foresters to hire and give them a chance, and you refused that, too. We also passed a recent Family Agricultural Economy Act where we said they could be registered for other activities in which they are not exclusively agricultural production. They can register for forest workers as well. So why did this law not allow them to also be licensed, to acquire the knowledge and quality they need, that they can also achieve up to 500 cc's of wood and put it on the market for their own needs and for those months when there are no agricultural works to have some kind of activity and extra income, and you refused to do so. And here you serve us some language amendments, harmonising with other regulations that you were supposed to solve at the beginning. It is irresponsible and give yourself serious and let us pass laws that will be enforceable in Croatia and for all alike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86804	Thank you. And we're still going to discuss our esteemed colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash, on behalf of the GLASs Club and HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86805	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. On June 19th, there was a second reading of the Law on the Forests. That's when we pointed out a series of problems in that law. Similarly, in 10 or 15 years, people will remember what they were doing Wednesday before the game and during the match between Croatia and England, and we Assembly representatives were in the Parliament before the game and we discussed the amendments to the woods and when I begged my colleague Bačić to stop the debate at 17 hours because there were two laws behind it because the day before that we worked until 16, and the day after that until 12 because it was really a game, people decided to work shorter, then my colleague Bačić said no, we go into two readings, we have laws in the first and second reading, we go according to what we decided, and this government does so. Well, now that this government is working among other things, it shows the Forest Act. 32 amendments were made to that law. All 32 amendments have been rejected. One amendment I said to the Secretary of State, I said to the Secretary of State: there is no vanity, you reject the amendment, but refuse to make sure you put it into law because you will soon come with the amendment and the addition of that law because it was a series of technical amendments. I must admit that the Ministry of Agriculture and the esteemed secretary have denied me because we have not even come to an amendment to the law, but have come to the Government's amendments, where a part of what we have warned about is immediately being implanted. So when the opposition gives you amendments, the opposition does not give amendments to make rules important, so that the rules are smart, to show a number of things, the opposition also gives amendments that are technical. Believe we know something. And now part of those amendments that the opposition made, you will install through the amendments to the Government which should not be... It's important that they're inside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when we vote, it will be very interesting to vote. When there will be an amendment of the opposition you will vote against and when that same amendment will be from the government you will vote for. Why we're working, I'm gonna use one word I don't normally use, a circus from this high house. Let's get the men doing the right thing. In this law, I must and use this place to say, for the first time in Croatia's legislation, we are entering a provision that the Government has left and that is a message to the citizens of the burning forest because if you burn down the forest after 10 years it will become a construction area. It's in this law, and we need to know that they're going to vote today. In conclusion, work really needs to be done not to pretend that we do, but we do. From the second, therefore, since the debate on the Final Proposal of the Law, we have twice had a vote and I have wondered all along why the Law on the Forests does not come. Well, because it wasn't well done, because it wasn't fully figured out, maybe it was smarter to wait until autumn, nothing basic would have changed, and then the government decided to amend this proposal. So we had the first reading, we pointed out, we had the second reading and we pointed out. Before the game, one of us five, six sat here and explained each other's amendments, lightly the secretary of state said no. The government has now decided to make a proposal out of it. And I am absolutely sure by the end of the year, there will be amendments and additions to the law because such a law will not be possible to implement. Who? Well, you're a fellow secretary of state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86806	This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. So now we're going to vote on the government's amendments. We will vote on each amendment individually. So we're going in a row. Amendment No. 1st, Prime Minister, please vote. I find that most of the votes 75 for and 21 against the amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Amadendman 2, please vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for and 6 against us have also accepted this amendment and it becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. Three, please, let's vote. I also find that most of the votes were accepted by Amendment No. 3. and it becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. Four, please, let's vote. I also find that this amendment is 76 votes against and 1 against, so we accept it and it becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. Five, let's vote. And this amendment has received the required number of votes, 76 for and 1 against, so it becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. Six, please, let's vote. Seventy-six for and one against. So Amendment No. 6. becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. Seven. I also find that this amendment has received the required number of votes, 75 for and 1 against, becoming an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 8, please, let's vote. I also find that this amendment has received the required number of votes, 76. Amendment No. Nine, please vote. And this amendment has received the required number of votes, 76, becoming an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. 10th, please vote. And this amendment has received 76 votes, becoming an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. 11, please, let's vote. 76 votes again and Amendment No. 11. becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. 12, please vote. And this amendment has received 76 votes, becoming an integral part of the Law. And let's go to the last, Amendment No. 13, please vote. This amendment received 76 votes for and 1 against, becoming an integral part of the Law. Now we're going to vote on the other amendments. We held a statement on the amendments at the session held on 11 July 2018. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Agriculture, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, MP Miro Bulj, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the GLAS and HSU and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The review of the amendment has been sent to you. We're going in a row now. Amendment No. 1. The government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2. The government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 3 is not accepted by the government. Amendment number three was also not accepted by the government. Amendment number four, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number six is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 7 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 8 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 9 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 10 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 11 The government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 12 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 13 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14 The government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 15 The Government accepts and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 16 The government does not accept, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 19 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 21 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 24 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 26 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 27 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 30 of the Committee on Agriculture has been accepted as amended, and the Committee should be shown whether this is acceptable or not. Who's going on behalf of the board? Then let's go to the vote, so it's accepted in a changed form, we vote on the original amendment, so we vote on the original amendment because no one has been shown by the amendment's proposings. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 31 is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 32 of the Legislative Committee was also adopted and it became an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Forest Act, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 41 against, have passed the Law on the Forests. Let's go now. - Proposal for a law on Croatia's agricultural chamber, first reading, P.Z. number 317. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us now, the respected Tugomir Majdak is state secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86808	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MP and the gentlemen of the Assembly. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we present the final proposal of the Act on HPC adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 30 May 2018. The HPK Act regulates the status, structure, jobs and tasks and membership as well as the way in which the chamber is financed. The objective of the adoption of the HPC Act is to create a legal framework that would enable the strengthening of the role of HPCs as roof institutions of all farmers, in particular those in organisational form, of the OPGs of course entered in the OPG register and other physical and legal organisational forms of farmers registered under specific regulations, and in order for the chamber to fulfil the primary and most important tasks mentioned, but also other tasks and tasks assigned to it by law. Through the work of the chamber, farmers will also participate in the work of councils, commissions and other permanent and occasional bodies and will thus participate actively in the creation of a agricultural policy at national level and in cooperation with similar organisations from other Member States and at European level, mainly in the negotiations on the common agricultural policy and its reforms that have already begun. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber was established in 2009 by the HPK Act to promote the protection and interest of farmers from the Republic of Croatia at national and international level. The special role of the chamber is seen through representation of farmers from the Republic of Croatia in international associations of farmers, in particular roof and interest associations at EU level. Thus, the chamber, HPC, is a full member of the largest European Association of Agricultural Producers Copa-Cogec, which was named in 2015 by the main organisation of agricultural producers in the EU and thus has the opportunity to highlight the specificities of Croatian agricultural producers through the unique representation of the interests of the entire European agricultural sector before the meaning of the European Commission and other EU institutions... in the organization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HPC's particular importance in representing these interests is seen through its representativeness in the number of members compared to the total number of farmers in our country. The establishment of a chamber in 2009 required membership for all farmers enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings, however, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on HPC 2012 and the introduction of voluntary memberships resulted in a significant cut-off of the number of members of the chamber. So today, the chamber gathers less than 0.6% of farmers who are being led in the same name register in our country, questioning the possibility of carrying out all the tasks that have been legally assigned to it and, above all, its primary and most important tasks relating to the collection of the unique views of farmers, especially those that operate in the organisational form of family farms and which are with a share of 97% of the dominant organisational group of farmers in our country. Advocacy of the interest of farmers in particular of the OPG towards institutions and state bodies in the Republic of Croatia has been carried out and is still mainly carried out through their voluntary association in the membership of one of the many interested associations whose days in Croatia operate around 1130. These associations promote unequal attitudes and none of them are able to include all agricultural producers of interest and, as such, they are not able to represent Croatian farmers in international associations and, in particular, to roof interest associations at EU level. Although this is what farmers rightly expect of them and pay their financial obligations arising from this membership to individual associations. As a result, this situation also gives rise to a lack of confidence in association, which we can say, I also have an impact on today's HPC status in which voluntary membership is currently prescribed. For this reason, this law introduces a membership obligation for all farmers enrolled in the OPG register, along with the mandatory introduction of a voluntary membership for all other and natural and legal persons enrolled in the farmer's register and the honorary membership, and thus will make all the members of the chamber a better contribution to decision-making and that no organisational form of farmers will have... double membership in accordance with specific regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law provides for the majority of membership fees of 6 kn per month but the Chamber Assembly shall be given the opportunity to decide independently on the amount of membership fee which may not exceed the prescribed amount or to decide on the release of the payment obligation for individual members. The determined amount of membership fee does not constitute a significant burden per member and funds will be raised necessary for the financing of the chamber required to comply with the statutory obligations as well as financial obligations that bring membership to other associations at national and international level. By paying the membership fee in this amount, compared to the number of members estimated to be around 65 thousand future chamber members will have the necessary means to fulfil their founding tasks and to move at 4.5 million kuna per year. On the other hand, the amount of 6 kn per month for the members of the chamber is the amount that is financially below certain benefits that the OGPs and other agricultures will be able to achieve if they are members of the chamber. The proposed Final Draft of the HPC Act compared to the applicable law summarises the activities of the chamber and introduces provisions on the promotion and representation of the interests of members at the already mentioned national and international level and the coordination of activities of the association in the area of agriculture and association dealing mainly with rural development. Organisation and co-organization of consultation on social, legal and tax issues for the needs of members and media promotion of the work of the chamber, its members and all types of agricultural activity. The final draft of the law differs from the proposal for a law on HPC which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. I'm just going to point out some of the most important changes. According to the final proposal of the law, mandatory membership for all farmers entered in the register of the OPG under the OPG Act, National No. 29 of 2018, and it is prescribed that members pay membership fees at the expense of the chamber. The final draft law stipulates that the statute of the chamber is adopted with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture until, unlike the text of the law in the first reading, the previous opinion of the Ministry on the annual work programme and the annual financial plan as well as the annual report does not need to be passed. The final draft of the law stipulates that the Chamber must comply with its statutes and other acts with this law within 60 days of the entry into force of the law and must implement the elections no later than 31 December 2018 in which it will also be assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture, means in the logistics section. The adoption of a final draft of the HPC Act will also allow Croatian farmers a strong organisation that will represent their interests in the country and abroad, modelling similar organisations in France, Austria and other EU members, thus enabling the joint farmers to better express their views and to exercise their rights both in front of Croatian institutions and in front of the EU bodies in the above-mentioned negotiations on the creation of a new EU common agricultural policy for the period from 2021 to 2027. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86809	Thank you, Secretary of State. We do if I'm not mistaken for four replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86810	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We had a lot of opportunities to listen to from the prime minister and from the government's members about tax evasion, about the discharge of entrepreneurs, businessmen, I would certainly count farmers there. Parafiscal intrusions, I think, fall into one of them, and now you're introducing a new one. We also have an advisory, agricultural advisory service, what will be their role now? If we have a chamber that should advise farmers. Because the advisory service is paid directly by Croatian taxpayers, this should be paid by farmers. And yes, 72 kuna a year may not be a burden, but when you consider that entrepreneurs, depending on how they exist on the market, have to pay ZAMP, HOK, HGK, contribution to forests, water and taxes on profits, advances etc., etc., etc., you will reach the amount of several thousand kunas per month, and no one who has not been in the real sector knows what it means to earn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86811	Thank you. The answer of the respected Secretary of State Majdak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86812	I thank you for the question, dear representative Hajdukovic. So here is very briefly, we have been asked by the representatives of farmers through their associations or individually to make membership mandatory and we cannot talk about this part of the imposition, and we have always pointed out that farmers themselves have been in the last few years, mainly since 2012, when mandatory membership has been lifted and when the number of members has been cut, they have asked for this part of mandatory membership. And as I have already said in the opening statement, the cost if there are 6 kunas per month will be far below the financial part that will provide the chamber and which already confirms with its activities for all members who will be its members through some of the benefits that the chamber is already providing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86813	Next replica, honorary representative of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86814	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so when it decided to go with this law which required membership in the chamber, I assume you had a role model in some EU countries. So in how many EU countries is membership mandatory?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86816	I'm waiting for you to give me your word, okay. I thank you for the question of the esteemed MPs, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. Yes, just experience from our close countries, meaning Austria, Germany, in the work of Styria, because they also have at regional level, Germany, for example. the organised agricultural chamber in those countries, but also France and other countries bear witness to mandatory membership in those chambers, and we have drawn experience from that work to define mandatory membership. It is far less than in those countries that prescribe membership at about 30 to 60 euros for farmers in those countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86817	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86818	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, since there has been a potential reduction in the number of payment obligations between the two readings, which I think is no longer mandatory for companies and d.o.o. Since they are paying their membership fees in the Chamber of Commerce, it has also seriously reduced the planned income of the chamber from the estimated 7 million to 4.5. I wonder if it is possible to provide funds directly from the ministry for the payment of international institutions such as Copa Cogec and others, because it is quite a large amount of cca 500,000 kuna per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86819	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86820	I thank you for this question, esteemed representative Križanić. Yes, compared to the first reading, the draft law has been amended in part of compulsory membership, it is now defined for all OPGs to avoid and double membership according to specific regulations governing the organisational forms of farmers. We are certainly considering the possibility of paying for Croatia's agricultural chamber, its membership in international associations, as is the case with some other organisations, institutions in agriculture in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86821	And the last replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86822	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned in your report, and this final provision states that by the end of this year, the Ministry of Agriculture will provide about 300,000 kuna for the financing of the chamber until a new assembly is established and the mandatory payment of membership takes place. I already said in my first reading that these 300,000 kunas will not be enough for you by the end of the year to complete the business of Croatia's agricultural chamber because it needs agricultural producers due to a common market appearance, but we see positive shifts through the price of fuel that are made possible in agreement with some traders and certainly it is important that the Croatian agricultural chamber exists, to be an organisation of all family farms, but they must feel that they need to have the chamber and that it works. This cannot be without money and it is therefore important to increase these 300,000 kunas to at least 500, as Mr Križanić said, due to membership in other organisations, and next year it will take a million kunas from the Ministry of Agriculture until the chamber gets to other sources, revenues. So please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86823	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86824	I thank also for the comment and suggestion of the esteemed representative Vlaovic. Yes, we will also respect your proposal during the first reading, as well as the proposal from the representative Križanić, and we will define all necessary financial resources to enable quality work of the chamber by the end of this year, including elections in the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86825	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86826	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 47th session held on 14 June this year the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament by an act of 30 May this year. In the preparation of the final draft of the Law, the Proposer accepted the comments made in the debate on the Proposal for a Law relating to the obligation of membership, the obligation to submit the annual work programme and reports to the Chamber of Competent Ministry, the regulation of the deadline for the implementation of the ex post assessment of the effects of the implementation, the deadlines for the harmonisation of the Statutes of the Chamber, the selection of the Chamber bodies and the method of payment of the membership fee, and the additions to those carried out in connection with the activities of the Chamber, as the Commissioner pointed out, and I thank you, therefore, for understanding of the allegations made by the Committee. In the debate, the Committee members warned that the reduction in the number of payment obligations of the Chamber membership would result in an insufficient amount of funds needed for the work of the Chamber and, in view of the effectiveness of its operation, it would be necessary to find other sources of financing for the Chamber, here also the Vice-President of the Committee has now said so in his replica. It has also been warned of possible problems related to how to charge and not fulfil the obligation to pay the membership fee. This bill received the majority support within the Committee, with 5 votes in favour and 3 votes were abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86827	A colleague of Panenić, you can stay at once, given that we are crossing the line... and I am opening the debate and that the first club of representatives of the Most independent lists, so you are as speaker registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86828	Here, thanks again. I will now speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. We've had significant changes in this law. Since the first draft of the proposal, which was welcomed with the enthusiasm of people who work, operate within the Chamber, where they counted on significant financial resources, where they counted on the development of their organization, where they said openly, we will be separated from the Ministry, will no longer have an impact on us. That's actually what I'd say and come from the very setting of the problem. That we believe that if someone receives funds from the state budget, that they are influenced by some political influence from the current rulings. In view of the financial resources that were provided, this was at the level of 2017 last when it was full, 2 million kuna. If we also look at a number of associations representing the interests of agricultural producers, I do not know any of which has an approximate amount of the resources mentioned in this. I would say and then, so it's not necessary to rule out finances doing what some organisation is in its action to define as protecting agricultural producers. Of course, financial resources make it easier for them, to allow them perhaps a certain degree of participation in certain events, to allow them to be able to present better for a moment exactly the problems that are, but also with this bill, where are we coming from? We come to the fact that the Chamber system would be changed according to what was stated in the debates. We now have county chambers that are much closer to agricultural producers at the level of the county while now being thought and with this larger means that would be, that there would be no more county chambers, but would remain regional. I also appeal this way to the chamber which these thoughts which are not mentioned in the Law, where they can determine for themselves but as such communicated them still thinking about leaving the chamber system, that at least the organisational units have the lowest organisational unit at the county level. Because the representation of agricultural producers is not only a national obligation but also a regional obligation in view of development, for example. some county strategies, participation in the partnership council. Because we are now taking part in the partnership councils of the Advisory Service. Is it the advisory service that represents the unbiased agricultural producers? Even they're funded from the state budget, even I'd say they're part of state bodies. The agricultural chamber, however, was more significantly remote and thus by providing funds that are not what they expect, but are not so small. It is predicted that more than 3 million kunas will still be significant, 4 million kunas will be approaching. I believe that they can and must act independently as they should so far. And what do we miss? We may miss the time when agriculture was known to cause much smaller problems than to go out on the streets today, organise protests, push ruling any they were, whether it was HDZ with its majority, SDP with its majority, but simply a Croatian farmer, a Croatian agricultural producer, he can't wait for politics to make his decision that something difficult is because sometimes the life of a farmer is much harder. And every day, there's more and more imposes. I'd tell you an anecdote about a man who stayed in my place during the occupation and complained when we came back that he really didn't have any income during the occupation, but here, nobody asked to pay for anything. When the Croatian state came, reintegrated those premises, established the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, it was granted the right to retire, but it also received a number of other costs. This is a story we can pass on to the Croatian peasants. His obligations are growing. And this obligation, however small, 6 kuna a month, 72 kuna a year, is another burden. We didn't say OK, let's secure funds for the Chamber to pay what would ensure that the Chamber can really be an independent professional organization that will represent these peasants, and on the other hand, to make it clear to him, but here we have reduced your obligation. We didn't create a new commitment, we actually made it through the Ministry's policy, the secretary of state is here, we went to stop those O.P.G.s. Under the new Bill of Law, all OPGs will have to put one board on their own facility, where they live and operate, which has additional costs. They'll have to analyse the quality of agricultural land, current prices are approaching about 400 kuna per agricultural particle, whether it might be taken as... The technology unit still won't have to pay much more, so they can get out a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Currently, the agency has sent the request to those who have leased state land, very soon it will be an obligation for all agricultural land. The administration needs to be run, so far it's been the use of pesticides, now it's going to be the use of mineral fertilisers. There should be numerous calls that are no longer simple, are not at the level of operational programmes where funds, quality resources came quickly and easily and efficiently. We have EU programmes, we need consultants involved, more competition needs to be done, more investment needs to be made. And what happens, here's an example we had, we recently apologized, so we applied to a grant tender, got, in the application itself, they had an offer for one tractor, since it took a very long time, there was no longer this tractor on the market. They had to implement the investment in a short time, they had to take a much larger tractor, they had to pay for additional funds beyond what they were granted, they increased. So we're still creating one uncertainty, we're causing additional costs, and we're going in a year like this one, who was on the ground, we had a drought first, so now we have a rainy period, the oily tail on all sides opens up, the barley collapses, the wheat will certainly be more significant in quality than last year, and our agricultural producer needs to wait until autumn to achieve, perhaps on corn or soy income that will be able to survive. And all the time we're actually talking about is that production under the clear sky is exactly the one that determines what costs that agricultural producer can have. Unfortunately, by legislation, we impose an obligation that does not take care of it, I do not care whether the legislator was dry, whether ice was beaten, whether there were more or less rainfalls that could damage agricultural culture than we say by law is prescribed, the parliamentary majority adopted it, this proposal and as such we will execute you. And then it's hard for me, and it's really hard for me, you know, when someone says okay, and what if that farmer doesn't pay his obligation of 72 kuna a year? And it's sad to hear that here, unfortunately, we're going to have to take 3 years, 3 years for the PKK to have to wait for it to send it, because under 200 kuna, you can't do it at all, and then it's a question of what the costs are going to be. And no one asks you who won't pay what real problems are, does anyone have a problem with 72 kuna? We impose obligations and I understand what organisation of the market is but I still don't think we have been able to set a clear line between traditional Croatian production, small production and modern market-oriented production that needs to be organised, which should be encouraged. We're only going to mass. 100 and a few thousand in the OPG register must be, 50, 60 thousand must pay membership fees and obligations one, the other, the third, etc. That's where we're just not up to the situation we're in. We're not up to being flexible, to understand the problem, to detect the real problems, to deal with regional, local matters, to have understanding, not to set ourselves up as a state. And as it was in history, it was always the ruler who came for his harbinger. He came and took what belonged to him and what was left was for the peasants, whether it was enough or not. And because of that, this law may also create a better organized organization. Will there be an organization that will really fight for the interests of peasants, will it be an organisation that raises the voice, will it be an organisation that will oppose the minister when something is not good, will it be an organization that will tell Minister Zdravko Marić that those who pour blue diesel into canisters have so much money, that they have more money would probably have 1,000, 2000 liters to drive them? Will Minister Tolusic, Deputy Prime Minister, ask why products are not bought? Now here we have, you've seen in the media in the Neretva Valley, problems have arisen. Who's the one in this PKK who's smiling at money, who's supposed to be reacting to something? I'm watching, it's the O.P.G.'s association that's showing up. It's Life that raises the voice, the P.K., no sign of a voice. I fear that no matter how much we give me such an organization of money will always be too little for them and their voice will never be the primal, real one that protects the interests of the peasants because they will be too involved with politics, too careful of politics, too much in fear that one act would not endanger their secure position that is in certain ruling positions in the HPK. That's what I'm talking about, so that we don't create a PKK here by passing a law like this that's just going to yell out that there's a problem, we have to pay for the Copa-Cogec membership that's a European organisation, a powerful organisation. Whether we will also create such an organization here with us that will really be powerful, which will have a ministry, which will be consulted, from which they will seek advice, from which they will seek support for implementation and when they are difficult reforms, when they really need to make a change and ask for understanding, whether it will be an organisation that, when they have fought in what they should and then also tell their farmers, their members, unfortunately here and this is difficult, but there is no other choice. We are looking for such organizations, not just membership organizations, not organizations that members will say after a certain time, but we really don't know what this organization has done for us, we're just paying membership fees and another parafiscal imposition. There are a number of questions that are raised in these laws, one thing that has actually been changed, which is that the agricultural chamber will decide on the amount of compensation that will be up to 6 kuna, can be brave and say it is not 6, but it is 3, but it is 1 and then say we are not satisfied with our work as well, so we can't even transfer that burden to our members. For now, we're worth one kuna, so we'll charge one kuna. When we justify our existence, then we'll charge two, three, four, five, if it's really in the interest of the peasants, then no one will say it's either 6, or ask it to increase and change this law. The club of the representatives of the independent lists will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86829	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we heard from the secretary of state the argument why the Croatian agricultural chamber should have mandatory membership, I asked them as legislators, that it was wanted by farmers etc., etc. But I would like to hear what farmers were asking for the Croatian Agricultural Chamber to be mandatory? I think we could count them on the fingers of one hand. I think that's what those in the Croatian agricultural chamber were looking for before. Because we are constantly talking about the benefits that members of the chamber have, but what are these and what benefits when they have managed to attract less than 1% of farmers to the Republic of Croatia. For what was this agricultural chamber fought to ensure that farmers, farmers, were motivated to be its members? Here's one rhetorical question we all need to imagine ourselves over. You can pull the same parallel with for example the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. If you do a survey among the economies, so those who must necessarily be members of that same chamber and ask them if they want to continue their membership, I would dare say 95%, if not more, this is a conservative assessment, I would say no. Why? There are many reasons why entrepreneurs do not want to be and not just HGK, that it does not turn out to be an apostrophe, an entire chamber system which is conceived as it is not good in Croatia. We often refer to western examples from Austria, Germany, Bavaria, etc. etc., but the difference is, although in some of these countries membership in the chamber is mandatory, the difference is that the chamber in those countries is doing something concrete for its membership. There I would draw one parallel with the Croatian Chamber of crafts which is completely different organized, but is much more in touch with its membership, since each association of craftsmen is actually a special legal person, therefore much more in touch with its membership than these other chambers. But if you ask the craftsmen if they're happy with it, they'd say they're not. The chamber system, in my opinion, should certainly regulate the market. When chambers are efficient, when they effectively represent the interests of their members, then the entities will be interested, in this case agricultural producers and farmers, to be interested in members of these chambers, when it is clear what they get and what they end up getting for their money. This government has talked a lot about tax discharge, about possible VAT cuts, about the different reliefs that eventually turned into super high tax reform that gave the rich more, but the parafiscal burdens are there and they remain. And yes, we can say that 72 kuna, the maximum amount of membership fee is not large and will not significantly disrupt the business of a certain farmer, but I still have to draw attention to the fact that all farmers on the market exist in different forms, so from the OPG, d.o.o., some are tradesmen, etc., etc. and when they pay all their obligations, which are, I will only list some, ZAMP, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Contribution to the Forests, Contribution to Water, TV subscription, tax on profit, etc., etc., etc. What's left of them? My colleagues and colleagues, the one who didn't work in agriculture, in the real sector, doesn't know what it means to earn every kuna and how hard it is. If you take and add up all the obligations that arise, so that I've told you and parafiscal burdens so-called, then that sum will rise to several thousand kunas. It's for one small entrepreneur, one small farmer's extremely high cost. I'd also like to ask another rhetorical question. There is an association called the Croatian Employers' Association. I don't want to advertise anyone here, but I just want to ask myself a question with you. How does this association have membership, voluntary membership, membership that pays membership and wants to pay membership fees in such an association, and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, for example, does not? I think the answer is quite clear to you, if you look at the activities of this organization that is critical, which is constructive, but which is fighting for each member and represents their interests. Until the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and other chambers in Croatia are such, I fear we will have this result, and that is, if membership is not mandatory, barely 1% of those who need or may be members will be. And well, most will pass this law, we will vote it membership will become mandatory again and what will it change? Absolutely nothing, except that HPK has more money, and our agricultural producers less. Well, it's also a symbolic 72 kuna. Our agriculture colleagues and colleagues need to be helped, and we need to help our farmers, and we have partly detected this by passing the OPG Act, which we welcomed as a good step in this direction to establish the OPG system. However, colleagues and colleagues without deeper deep and strategic thinking, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve anything. I told you in the debate under the last point that a year and a few days ago, before the Committee on Agriculture announced the adoption of the Strategy on Agriculture, until today from the strategy we haven't even seen it with. We heard that, although very undefined and the Strategy on Forestry, we heard that the Strategy on the Wood Industry, etc., etc., but colleagues and colleagues until we have a clear strategic goal of what we want with our agriculture and in which direction we want to develop it, neither the chamber nor the laws will be able to help. So we have to set ourselves a goal, whether it's organic production, whether it's mass production, the production of which branches or what branches we want to strengthen, etc., etc. Because one fact is very simple and irrefutable, if we go to the mass production of Denmark and the EU is the largest pigmeat producer and we are very, very hard to deal with if we are talking about the market because their price is lower, because they specialize, because they have worked and directed their entire agricultural production into it for years. And we're all about colleagues and colleagues, we'd do a little livestock, we'd do a little farming, we'd do a little mass production, we'd do a little organic production, we'd do a little bit of traditional, and that's not going to work. And if we had, as counterpart Panenić mentioned, we have two types of production generally agricultural in Croatia, which is traditional, these are family economies and we have that industrial one, so I would say mass, and these are large companies, large agricultural tenants producers etc., etc. And now you're telling me, let's say, one Osatine from Osijek or one Osatine from Osijek will pay the same membership fee as that OPG guy, and then I'm asking you if we're talking about the chamber system and the ratio of how much someone can benefit from it where there's justice. One who has several rows of tomatoes and is selling it must pay 72 kunas as well as one who has thousands of hectares under different cultures and who manufactures feeds and the like. So a very, very unfair proportion. Finally, I will conclude my debate with another defeated fact by my colleague and colleagues, 75% of Croatian entrepreneurs, according to the latest survey, believe that Croatia is not an encouraging investment climate. It's a defeating result, and we need to work on it. I don't think mandatory membership in one chamber is going to contribute any more because unfortunately in international circles of foreign investors they ask you what ABC investment is? Sounds good in English I will also say in English because of the rhyme ABC investment, anything but Croatia, anything other than Croatia. It's our losing situation. The parafiscal intrusion will certainly not help some of the entrepreneurs decide to come here without telling you what other obstacles there are. The agency for encouraging or implementing investments has also not produced results as well as the ministry so far, so the proportion of foreign investment in Croatia is extremely, extremely low. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues need to work on it, we need to help our farmer, we need to make him competitive, we need to strengthen him, and I'm afraid we won't do it with parafiscal inducements. We have made an amendment to this law that we consider correct in terms of when we define what the chamber is doing and how, we have tabled an amendment that deletes mandatory membership. If the HPK membership is not mandatory, then if the chamber has to fight for its own market and represent its clients and thus come to membership, then we are ready and supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86831	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Krizanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86832	Dear Mr. Vice President, state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. HPK is an important and important agricultural institution tasked with uniting the views of all agricultural associations and organisations and as such representing the Croatian public, government and EU. This bill mainly regulates the way HPK is financed through membership, which is good for independence. And here I disagree with counterpart Hajdukovic, I think it is much better and will be much more independent of HPK if he will have membership with those 6 kunas in the chamber, and membership will be paid by all those OPGs who have the support of more than 3,000 euros. For all other natural and legal persons enrolled in the Register of Farmers, membership will be voluntary. And again, I would answer to my colleagues, Hajdukovic, that Zito and Osatina will pay 6 kuna as well, but they will also have only one vote as well as each and every one of the smallest OPGs. The 2009 law establishing the chamber prescribed mandatory membership for all legal and natural persons entered in the register of agricultural holdings. Later amendments and additions to the Law are becoming voluntary in 2012. And the number of members has dropped drastically. So it's all down to 1,000 members, so I'm asking you what that was representativeness for these 130, 164 thousand farmers we have so far. The way the chamber was financed was based on the Ministry of Agriculture's budget funds which controlled the work of the chamber and the activities of the chamber, so the minister managed the chamber. Such a chamber today brings together only 6% of farmers and has no representative position, let alone a single opinion and interests of most farmers. Farmers registered as craftsmen or commercial companies have an obligation to join the HOK or the HGK until the OPGs that make up 96.9% have so far not had adequate membership in any chamber. It is important to note that mandatory membership in the chamber implies a cost of 6 kuna. If it's a parafiscal imposition, I'm discussing my colleague Hajdukovic with you, it's too bad you're not here, but I'll get back to you later. So 6 kunas per month and 72 kuna per year which, for a serious agricultural economy, should not be too much cost if we consider that they receive complete independence. Such a payment obligation of 164 thousand farmers would have about 60 thousand OPGs, of which about 4, 4.5 million kuna would be collected. This amount should be sufficient for smooth and self-employed work but also for paying membership fees from international institutions such as Copa-Cogec and here again, so the membership fee is about 500 thousand kuna. And I once again appeal to the secretary of state to see the possibility that these funds would be paid out of the state budget would not violate the independence of the chamber. I want to say that all other organizations and societies, clubs and all other chambers have membership fees and that there are normal PKKs. Such a way of raising funds for work through membership fees and exceptional revenues such as donations, sponsorship, then through their own activities and partly from the state budget through projects will avoid direct dependence on the state budget and on the will of the minister. counterpart Panenic spoke about the chamber should call for protests. I would now ask him, when that chamber of 2012 called for protests and how she could organise a protest if she was directly under the control of the minister who... I paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am sorry that because of those OPGs that receive incentives and membership fees, it could not have been collected in such a way as to ensure that the Agency for the Payment of Accounts and suspends the prescribed membership fee and payment at the expense of the chamber, thus, it would have been a simplified way of paying for the farmers themselves but would also ensure functional financing of the chamber. A new article on the payment of membership fees to the chamber could make it possible for the collection of membership fees to remain on a voluntary basis. It's not good, it would disable and block the work of the chamber, which we certainly have to avoid because it's not in anyone's interest. I therefore call on the resolution ministry, which is the legislator, your secretary of state, to find a solution and a mechanism to effectively collect membership fees because otherwise, it would lose the purpose of this good law and block the work of the chamber. Although HPK membership now implies a certain cost of benefits should be increased. Now, from a few days ago, we have the possibility and 15% cheaper fuel on Crodux for PK members, that's something that's good. Still, the visibility of the chamber is too low. So far, surely because of, most likely due to too little funding, but surely a much stronger engagement is now expected in the future. First, the chamber must collect the views of all its members and the uniform representation of their interests towards the ministry and other state bodies, especially towards the EU. That is why the chamber must be strengthened structurally and financially in order to bring its farmers into sectoral committees and to connect them with the working committees in the EU. The new law further defines the activities of membership on promoting interest at national and international level such as coordination of activities in rural development, organisation of various consultations for the needs of members as well as media promotion of the chamber. It is arranged in further cooperation with other related chambers such as Agronomic, Veterinary and HOC. The new law also provides for new elections by the end of the year due to significantly changed relations in the number of chamber members. Finally, the aim of another in a series of agricultural laws is to create a prerequisite in this segment for our agricultural producers, the members of the chamber to be involved in the creation of agricultural policy and to provide them with better information on new knowledge and technologies. And her continuing goal is to connect her for a number of divided... which so far have been totally, totally divided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in order to increase the quality and quantity and competitiveness of domestic agricultural production, which has been technically and technologically for many years behind the competition. That is why I again call on the Government and the Ministry for positive discrimination on Croatian agricultural production wherever possible. ... outside they subsidise in various ways their own agricultural production in order to be able to feed the nation but also competitive in the single, European and world market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86833	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative of the Goddess Makar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86834	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. The importance of establishing a agricultural chamber has been recognised since 2009 and is primarily due to the interest of representatives of RS farmers in international associations. When the chamber was established in 2009, membership was mandatory, however, the membership became voluntary. We expected farmers to want to pay membership fees, that they would want to be members of the agricultural chamber, that is, to recognize the importance, that is, of what they get by membership itself in that chamber. However, in Croatia in general, we have more reason not to want our farmers or other businessmen, and neither do we physically become members of an association under duress because every coercion is not good. We must simply create the conditions for our farmers to see who these benefites are, which they get if they are members of the agricultural chamber. They need to see what's the difference between what they get and what the non-members lose. And that is the only way we can create a healthy environment and we can encourage it to become a member of the agricultural chamber. There's a tradition. Many agricultural chambers in the surrounding countries record a hundred and two hundred years of tradition so that the same voluntary association of farmers in Austria was recorded in 1808. There is now mandatory membership in the agricultural chamber, as well as in many other countries in the environment. I've already said it all makes sense if that farmer knows what he's getting for that membership. We had in our first reading a proposal that all those enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings must be mandatory members of the Agricultural Chamber. An amendment to Article 7 has now been made where compulsory membership in the Agricultural Chamber only for those farmers is entered in the OPG register in accordance with a specific regulation laying down the methods and conditions of enrolment in the OPG register. That is to say, those over 3,000 euros, and those over 3,000 euros, I received information on the Committee on Agriculture from the Secretary of State, that the minimum support for such amounts is 700 euros per year, which is the support paid by the Agency for Agriculture and Rural Development. For all other legal and natural persons, as well as other farmers, membership in the Agricultural Chamber is voluntary. When we say membership fee 6 kuna doesn't seem much, 72 kuna a year, and it really is the lowest membership fee paid to all chambers operating in the territory of Croatia, and of course we don't talk about others operating in the environment. But again, every membership fee is high if it's seen as an imposition, not as an investment. That's why our farmers really need to know what they're getting from membership in the Agricultural Chamber. And in Article 4 of the proposal of this law, it is listed. I'm not going to read everything, I'm going to say what's most important, but with that, we should just meet our farmers and let them know what they know, what they get, because I'm saying, otherwise it's still just going to be coercion. So we have in Article 1 the promotion, protection and representation of the interests of members of the chamber before the authorities of the state administration, bodies of the local and regional self-government units. This is particularly in the process of adopting rules of interest for agriculture and rural space. Then there is promotion and representation of the interests of members at national and international level. I have already mentioned how important this international representation is to us and that we are members of certain associations and that we can represent our farmers before them. We are then considering and offering expert opinions in the process of adopting regulations and other acts in the field of agriculture, monitoring the situation in agriculture and rural areas, and proposing a solution for improving agriculture and rural development, organising education, vocational training, seminars, courses and workshops in the field of agriculture and other agricultural matters, cooperation with educational, scientific and professional research institutions, establishing and developing cooperation with foreign agricultural chambers and related organisations. The organisation of agricultural fairs and other events in the area of agriculture, the organisation of consultation on social, legal and tax issues for the needs of chamber members. And then there's the media promotion listed as one of the important tasks of this chamber. I sincerely hope and believe that the chamber will carry out these activities and that farmers will willingly be members of the agricultural chamber and that there will be far more numbers than is prescribed by this law which are obliged to become members of the HPC or to pay this amount of membership fee. The HNS will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86835	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86836	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And respected, but poor Croatian peasants. The HPK Act is one of the laws that when you read it a little bit you see that someone wanted to write something, didn't know exactly what they wanted to write, and then he wrote what he wrote, which won't have any positive effect on the development of agriculture. Let's remind ourselves that in 27 years Croatian agriculture is now on the lowest branches. We are not enough in our production in almost nothing, and the Law on Fair Commercial Practice does not help any agricultural producers because we see what we buy on shelves and in what way and what our citizens eat. Article 4 of the Chamber states that the activities of the chamber are the following tasks and tasks, promotion and protection of the representation of the interests of the members of the chamber, examination and professional opinion, chamber means professional, coordination and representation of the interests of the members of the chamber. Even though they don't know what the real interests of the chamber members are because if they knew of 27 years of age they'd do something, they wouldn't do it. Agricultural monitoring, 27 years reportedly being followed, nothing has been followed well so far so we don't even know what we need and what we have in agriculture, so it's probably not going to happen now. Co-ordination of activities and association in the field of agriculture, we have not developed cooperatives today, because in some ways, by scaring them with the communist times, we have driven them even better away. Organization, education, co-operation with educational professional agencies and that I do not now list further, but I will conclude only philosophy. There is nothing concrete here as if there were no agricultural chambers in other countries where we could see what is done in Bavaria, which is done in Austria, which has an 80-year-old Stajer Agricultural Chamber, there are over 300 experts who directly assist agricultural producers. What do we have today? When did a state expert come to help me in agricultural production, advise me or someone else? I don't remember that. The membership fee, 6 kuna a month, and believe that no OPG 6 kuna per month or 72 kuna per year means anything. But if those 72 kunas go to finance certain provisions, then of course they're all angry and they don't want to be members of the chamber. And this law is just talking about it. Why did we not put in that membership fee in proportion to the size of the economy, such as the Bavarian Agricultural Chamber, about 50 euros per economy, 5 euros per hectare. So do those with two acres, three acres have the same power as the one with 150, 200 or 50? Well, there isn't. Both interests are completely different and neither one and the other will be able to represent their interests in the right way. That is why I propose that the size of the economy be determined in proportion to the size of the membership. The agricultural chamber should charge some 65 thousand about 4 million kuna from its members, although we have not yet defined the way they will be charged. So you're still thinking about the way it's going to be charged because it can't just be taken off the support. 4 million kunas, the Agricultural Chamber will probably have several employees, not to say who it will be, will probably have official cars that will also be spent, will need to be repaired, and will also have a membership in COPA COGECA which with certain committees... perhaps up to a million kunas of 4 million. I'm asking you what this chamber is going to do to four million if it can charge for it. What is 4 million, 1 for membership 3 million kuna what can be done to help with this money? Gentlemen nothing, nothing. And normally, farmers will be angry when you impose on them and those 72 kunas because they won't get anything for it. In Bavaria, the agricultural chamber deals even the price of electricity for its members. That's all they save more than they pay the membership fee. They have agencies dealing with the provision of various services from designing projects, and I don't know what, where they do it for their members at a much smaller amount than they do for other users. We didn't install stuff like this inside that could work and this agricultural chamber of things like that. We don't have a single bank following agriculture today. And we were unable to preserve any Croatian bank that will say here there will be 2% interest in agriculture. In Bavaria the interest is up to minus 1% because their agricultural chamber manages to fight both for such loans both at the state and at banks. We have a chamber today that will have to deliver the report to the minister, the ministry. So I'm asking you who's gonna run that chamber? The one who is forming today, who makes the law for that chamber, will use the whole story as it has been used for political purposes before, and we will further divide our farmers than they are today. We have 1130 agricultural associations, and the agricultural situation and the situation in agriculture is the saddest thing a man could have been. I don't know why people don't go and sit down with these farmers. Today the minister is not here for this debate, he is not among the peasants. There must be a sense there and a bad thing to be told because the criticism is positive, it will change for the better. We don't need to run from our people and sit down with people. I sit with them every day, listening to both sorrows and praises. But we live with them, they're our people, we fight for them. If we are the rule of the Republic of Croatia, we are the legislative government, executive, then we must be among these people and hear what they say. When we had some sort of gathering where officials addressed the farmers directly, and where did they hear what they had to say? Never. We will represent farmers' views through the agricultural chamber. You can imagine. In what way? The leadership will be re-located, the way, the program and all the living things you're looking for here will be rediscovered. But, my men, our young are leaving, our young are leaving the Republic of Croatia. The O.P.G.'s gone. They're closing. Maybe it's funny, but I don't think it's funny anymore. It's not funny to me. I'm 50 years old, maybe I'd start thinking about a pension, but I'm afraid who will. Maybe a colleague's younger. Here, she won't have to think about retirement, maybe she'll prepare herself better because she knows what's going on. Thanks, buddy. It may seem theater to someone or something, but I tell you what people tell me every day. I sit in a work van every day and talk to them. It does not matter to them how they are joined together and who will work for them, but how they will be and how they will be. It is important for farmers to earn profits, to make the profit possible for them to feed their families and to improve the economy. With the philosophizing, which acts, there is no progress of my people. Most of the time, we are dealing with this law with composition, detour, chamber bodies, internal structure, and we are not dealing with any of the things that the chamber should put in place as a task and what the chamber should do. In an explanation, the reasons why the Law is adopted will mean that strengthening the role of the chamber will create assumptions for the sustainable development of the CAPs, improving and increasing their competitiveness for the market, and strengthening their social, social, environmental roles in the conservation of natural agricultural resources. No matter what law, part of the Law of this makes it possible? Tell me what part of the Law allows and see what we are talking about today and how many times we discuss agriculture and all these laws, but today's government does not want to respect any amendment to the opposition. Don't say everyone's so bad, we don't know anything, that only those who rule know. In my discussions, I am trying to talk about real problems and if you in HDZ who are in power today install them and take all the credit, I will be happy no matter whose merits, but to solve some problems in agriculture. Because for many years we haven't solved anything. Next, in an explanation. In this way, the Chamber would fulfil its primary and most important task, which is to collect the views of the OPGs and other farmers, members, and to represent their own interests towards the Ministry of Agriculture and other bodies. Advocacy of the interests of the Chamber and farmers towards the ministries, and we submit a report to the Ministry and expect funds from the Croatian budget. I'm asking you who believes that? I don't think anyone trusts you anymore and that our farmers, not to say peasants, but I'm proud to be a peasant because we're all from the village, as Stephen Radic said in his soul, we're all peasants in the soul except those who have no soul. Unfortunately, this is one smuty law that tries to change what former Minister Jakovina did here, which abolished mandatory membership, which was not good and simply fell apart. Although I'm not saying that even in the former Chamber of Commerce, she was doing something for agriculture and that she was something to the agricultural producers. Therefore, I appeal to all of you colleagues, especially the Ministry of Agriculture who is the promoter of this Act and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who sent this Law to the Croatian Parliament, and the Law as is the amendment that you will accept or you will put it, will be adopted. We all know that. But ask yourself, until the adoption of the law, whether it is necessary to change something here in a way that we sincerely think about the development of agriculture because it seems that all these years have not been honestly thought out, or that we didn't know what we were doing because unfortunately, agriculture has the smallest number of OPGs, the smallest production and we simply don't develop a processing industry, and thus these laws and insecuritys that we create in the Republic of Croatia, which young people see, simply estimate that it is no longer worth working here, that it is no longer worth bothering with Croatian legislation, because no one here is equal, legislation can today condemn you as guilty even though you were innocent. Try to change this to the welfare of Croatian peasants and then they will take it as something you do for them and then they will be very happy to be members of the agricultural chamber. If it remains the way it is now, then these 72 kunas will also be seen as imposing and something that again works against Croatian peasants because it turns out that he is the only one who invests his money, has a factor, dear God, has a factor that does not know what the price of buying his products and who he will sell them to, and he is persistently trying to produce under such conditions and simply because many adults are in the country, they can't do without the country, without production, hope that something will change, but we must be aware that many of them have lost hope and simply stopped doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86837	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86838	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, I will repeat once again, I am sorry that he is not the minister of such important laws with us at the Assembly, there is nothing to be afraid of. The fact that we're still imposing another hack on the farmers means the obligation to pay the membership. At the time when, from last year from the first month to this year to the first month, 71% of imports of milk have been increased, while cheese is 136% so that some experts predict that next year we will not have on the shelves in the Croatian market at all Croatian milk, Croatian dairy products. So at one point we've now remembered the chamber and the mandatory membership, one harrasic, of the chamber paid by the ministry to defend against the peasants, now the peasants of course, and the less people who defend themselves by agriculture, unfortunately, because people don't make any more sense after all, you don't have to do that. The fact is, at this point, there's a lot of problems in agriculture, so I can't hear that chamber or the minister to solve the problem, for example. where people can't sell their products in the Neretva Valley, so the problem in Slavonia blue diesel, simply people don't have the means to pour that fuel at one point, but they have to depend on the support, and they don't have the money, they've just made chaos in the system, so now you'll see what kind of reaction you're going to have while you're dealing with this hack, these people don't know that they're going to sell their watermelons, melons and other products, they don't have di. Why? Because it was the interest of the import lobby, because the Ministry of Agriculture, I said last time, were pests that destroyed Croatia's agriculture. At this point, as far as I know, people who do business, planting watermelons, melons and other products in the Neretva Valley are in trouble. Perhaps the minister is down so solves this problem has been solved, perhaps a bill has been given that 50% of domestic products is required to be on shelves in the Republic of Croatia in stores. No, just import lobbys. Therefore, at this point, the evaluations of experts are that next year we will have no dairy products from Croatia at all, continue this trend only. 81% increased imports compared to last year in this year, milk, we're only talking about milk. So it's absolutely appropriate to import lobbys, we're not going to talk about GMO food that's made out of soy juice to feed the pig, it's 130 million euros last year, or a billion kuna has been introduced, 10 billion kunas are imports of agricultural products at a minimum per year, that's what's being recorded, how much goes into the black market who knows, and that's why we don't have domestic production at this point. Now you're giving a harrass to a chamber paid by the ministry to fight for the peasants. So the peasant must defend himself against that chamber, the peasant will have to pay the chamber which is essentially, the agriculture chamber next to which he must fight, and what has this chamber fought for so far for the peasants? What are the positive indicators? In livestock, agriculture, in anything, here's the secretary I'm asking you, so come out, say what are the positive indicators? So look how you solved the blue diesel for people in Slavonia, people are in trouble, people have 200 kunas, they must not buy blue diesel in advance with a tractor 20 km, so I'm asking if they want to be modeled? They just have the means to get to the gas station 20 miles and come back. So at this point, I think that agriculture is a huge problem, we're famous, but it's government policy. The government's policy was like this, emptying everything, meaning the previous governments, emptying everything, when everything is empty, we're now going to give the possibility by international contracts that foreign natural and legal persons can buy agricultural land, since 2020, if someone might disassociate me by the law that we brought on agricultural land in 2020, foreign natural legal persons can buy agricultural land, and that's that. It is no longer a problem to even bring to Slavonia cattle, to increase the stock fund, but the problem is that we have no more people, no more cattlemen, farmers, and we are talking about this imposition as the main law of the PR-ovski is all about it in the ministry, someone told me to talk, what only 72 kunas will take to farmers annually, not on a voluntary basis, of course we will give the amendment and colleagues from the opposition, probably someone from the rulings. At this point we have huge problems, people can't sell their products, they're threatening roadblocks now in the tourist season, right, because the state hasn't done anything to them, and neither has this chamber. The Ministry paid for business to fight for farmers, what's she been up to now? Here I really ask you secretaries questions Agricultural chamber what has been fighting for farmers in Croatia? which we have positive indicators, except that we grow weeds well in fields both in Zagorje and Zagora and in Slavonia, Podravina, in the entire region of Croatia. So we don't have positive indicators, we have to solve problems that domestic products we buy, to protect ourselves from harmful food GMO products, we gave the law here, the government said in its opinion that the law is good, but that it's not the time, that it simply won't allow us other countries, it's not the time to bring that law. So at this point, we don't produce our own food, and we have all the conditions, we have all the conditions. So food is one condition in a country rich, safe and that people can create a family. That's three key conditions at this point. What are the terms of those three? We don't make food, the fields have grown into weeds, the irrigation we haven't solved... Promises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say that for the Dalmatian Zagora. She was down in the government in Split, they didn't say Sinjsko polje should... The most we need, we have a project, we have a program, but year after year, they're going to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Probably, that's what they left behind when they came to Alka so they could promise for the hundredth time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we didn't protect our domestic products. This law only adds to the burden of peasants. He has an obligation to be a member of the Agricultural Chamber and pay for it. Whether he pays them or not, it's an absolute minister, and also you, secretary, because you don't go out to talk, it doesn't matter. Here, I think farmers now expect more to protect domestic products, how they will sell their agricultural products in the Neretva Valley, throughout Dalmatia. In the tourist season they can't make their own products, they have nowhere to sell. Because the import lobby did its part. In the Ministry the other day there was a debate here about hunting and there was a speech that, of course, the law should protect agriculture which destroys game, that it should protect the damage in which to pay. Well, that savage is no longer a pity. There's no farm. The vermin are in the ministry, in the ministry are pests that led to agriculture not being there. We don't have agriculture in the Republic of Croatia. We have empty farms, we have numerous promises of moving to the EU. Well, we don't have dairy production anymore. We have no dairy production in Croatia. Take a seat in the vehicle, head from Zagreb through Lika, you will see, according to Dalmatia, you will not see three cows. That's a fact. Until the village is full of cattle, there is no life. We don't have production. It's not funny, it's a fact. And now we're bringing in a hack. Of course, we'll give the amendments, so there's no lock. Even a voluntary base, that could be correct, if it were on a voluntary farm base, the OPGs would have been, but like this, impose something on someone who hasn't been protecting until now. What is the guarantee that this Chamber will protect farmers? In Neretva, in the Cetina region, in Vrgorec, in Slavonia, in Podravina, I don't know where. What's a guarantee? Maybe hiring another 30 people in that chamber. Currently there are burning problems, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, you should talk to the people who produce in the Republic of Croatia, they can't sell their products. They have to isolate. The shelves are full of foreign products. We protect Croatia, buy Croatian. GMO products and bad food is too much to eat that only brings diseases. We can see that there's a tumor growth, there's an increase in everything. For what? Because our agricultural ornaments are unprocessed and that's the problem that the vermin in the Ministry of Agriculture are directly. That's what you need to tell the truth. If they had worked in the interest of farmers Croatian Ministry of Agriculture, agriculture would have been much more developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86839	Thank you, too. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86840	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, 72 kuna, we all have to agree, it's not much of a deal. The only dilemma is whether these 72 kunas will be used to develop agriculture, to protect agricultural producers, or whether they will be used to pay for the arrests in the Agricultural Chamber. Or if it turns into a political agricultural chamber, that's exactly the situation. There's a dilemma, and that's what people on the ground are asking. Is this now a political organization that is being created, or are we really going to get a chamber that will help us with those problems we have? And there's a lot of trouble. Production hasn't quite died in the Republic of Croatia yet when you say it still has it but it's already past noon for it and it just needs to be saved. And every mistake today is the destruction of agriculture tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86841	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86842	Thank you very much. I agree with you, colleague, that you need a spot-on response. There was supposed to be a minister here, be here and be in the field with people, with our agricultural products producers and give them the intent to protect theirs. What's their protection now about selling melons, watermelons or any other product because I don't know who secured them? They don't have any fuses. So, Croatian agriculture has no plan except that the Ministry has a good PR. So even the media law, which is a hack and has no guarantee that the Chamber will fight in the interest because so far, watching the Ministry pay the Chamber, has not fought for peasants and farmers. She fought for those in power. What is the guarantee and that is the question to be asked and to which we should give the answer, that they will fight for the villagers of the Chamber. Or it will be a catch factory, such as in numerous agencies, chambers, offices, administrations to the harm of Croatian peasants. And that's what I'm expecting from the secretary, and he was supposed to be the minister here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86843	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86844	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here, in the second reading, we have the Agricultural Chamber Act and about this shows the following. And in the first reading when we had it, we discussed the same thing, when you saw the remark that you were processing, the part that was usually on the side of this assembly that was ruling was acceptable you accepted, this part no, so it actually shows that we are talking, and all things are going through. Let's put this in a few contexts. So people have been teaming up in certain organizations for many days. In the beginning, these were Czechs because some craftsmen joined together for the first time to regulate some relationships, and on the other hand, they were able to perform more easily and meaningfully toward each other. And there you can read the tasks of the chamber where actually our farmers could represent some of their interests to the outside because here it says, 164 458 farmers are enrolled through family farms, through trade societies, crafts, cooperatives and individual farmers, and in that sense the chamber has its own reasoning because it can thus take place in and out. But history is a teacher of life. Every time someone forces you to do something, the first reaction is, when they force you to do something, to stop and wonder why and to have this one retreat and say no. Because of this and when you look a little historically at us, we already had mandatory membership, so we didn't have a mandatory membership, so now we're going to have a mandatory membership again. And here in the debate, my predecessors said something that I'd be apostrophe and repeat. If life and circumstances didn't teach us on the fact that no matter what we see here in relation to the benefits they should have, these benefits can be and if they're not mandatory membership, then these benefits can be, otherwise, we'll have benefits, or farmers, if they're not, we won't. There is already doubt and doubt is always that we know that from this we don't have benefits for what chamber it is, but in a certain way that individuals get their jobs, it's hard for me to say the love and the hard to use it and very rarely, but you know when you live in these rooms or you work in these spaces and you look at the last 20 years that happened, I can't get the impression of that one movie when a monkey lifts a stone, sees a snake and falls unconscious. And the second time again, when he wakes up unconscious, he raises that stone again. Now, if we hadn't already passed out, I'd say this might make sense, but we've already done it, passed out, so we can't support this. We talked about the debate in the first round, let's keep it voluntary, let's see what the chamber does, what benefits we have, and through the second or third step be membership and I can agree when you talk about 72 kunas, that's in the context of the euro 10k euros, even below 10 euros, and it's not something that would be sensationally large. But if you don't get anything, then everything is sensational, you feel like you're throwing money out the window. It's not good that anyone throws money out the window, it's not good to impose mandatory membership, it's not good that you decided to go this way with this chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86845	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86846	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. A very important law for Croatian agriculture, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act. There is no minister, and there was no one when it was the Agricultural Land Act, nor the Law on unfair commercial practices. Whenever it's important the agriculture law doesn't have a minister, it's not good, it's not a good message to our agricultural producers. And it is also not a good message that today we are very few in the Croatian Parliament, as if we have no interest in functioning Croatian agriculture, that the Croatian village lives, that living associations of agricultural producers should be the most important Croatian agricultural chamber modelled by Germany, France, Italy where no law can be passed in their Parliament without the attitude and opinions of their farmers, the agricultural chamber. And not only that, but they control law enforcement, and as soon as they notice that someone pops up, they react eventually, and if they need to protest, they close the highways until that problem is solved. Why is it not so with us and why does it suspect Croatia's agricultural chamber that it will justify what should be an interesting association of all family farms, all farmers who produce food in the Republic of Croatia? Well, for reasons we made mistakes in the beginning and for not having that tradition. Errors were made even in the former state when limited ownership to only 10 hectares of land and our peasants, our agricultural producers were taken from the country and the return law was passed in '96. Today, however, a large number of demands have not been resolved and no land has been returned to the family farms, first we must correct that injustice, to show seriousness to that village and to that agriculture. The other thing that was badly done, that we destroyed agricultural production, we destroyed agricultural combinations, agro combinations, agricultural cooperatives, yes, we went into that capitalist model, everything on the market, and what do we have? We have a drastic decline in agricultural production, although over 60 billion have been invested in Croatian agriculture, we have halved agricultural production, we have only 30% enough in milk production, we have a problem on the market because there is no market, what is the market for agricultural products in the Republic of Croatia? Shopping houses, shopping chains, where's the chance for a small family farm? Very small. We tried to help the adoption of laws on preventing unfair commercial practices, it came into effect on the 7th of last year, it was due by 1.4 this year to sign new contracts with suppliers, all trading houses in the Republic of Croatia, I don't know if they did everything, we had information that they weren't all. I would like to hear feedback on whether everyone has signed contracts with every trading house in Croatia, whether they are operating in accordance with the new law. Here's the role of the chamber to check it out and to react that we immediately ask to see who it is that doesn't respect the contract. And you know what the suppliers say? So now it's all been unfairly fair because all those hidden rebates, everything that had been broken and re-loaded to our suppliers, our producers, otherwise they didn't want to sign a new contract. Ask the manufacturers. All the dishonesty became fair, we warned that all that burden would be re-emerged on the domestic producer. There is no reaction from either the Ministry or the Competition Protection Agency. It's the only thing that's making such an individual noise, but they're afraid to say, they told me don't tell me who told you this was unfair because tomorrow they're gonna take me off the shelf from the trade chain. And compared to what he has as a producer price and what's on the trading shelf, the difference is about 60-70%, look who's taking that 60-70%. A salesman. He's not a producer, and he can't do business positively. It's the role of the Chamber to solve such problems. However, the Chamber cannot go alone and cannot do the Chamber if it is a political organisation because so far agriculture has been monitored through 1137 associations. Someone was interested in separating the agricultural Corps, establishing as many associations as possible to manage individual policies and processes easily. And then which association of political militias, you give her a little more money and then clap, good move, good minister. But a good minister would fight for all 1137 associations, not just some who are politically close to him. A good minister would now react to the price of barley, wheat and rape oil. The harvest's in progress. She's been here 20 days. The market, it's gone. They're left to shoppers and buyers, I call them that, and that's what our peasants call them. It is still unknown how much the price of wheat will be or what parameters we need to satisfy, and production from 150 thousand hectares to 90,000 hectares of wheat radiation in the Republic of Croatia has fallen. Sixty thousand tons of frozen dough, pastries, cakes, bread. It can't be competitive for our manufacturer. We need to find models to protect. That's why he needs a farming chamber. And the law will be passed and the Chamber will probably function with mandatory membership, but I now publicly call on those 60 or 65 thousand OPGs to all respond to the Chamber elections, that the Minister and the Ministry cannot determine who will be President of the Chamber, who will be on the board of directors, who will be in the professional bodies of the chamber. You O.P.G.s, you 60 grand have the power to spark it yourself. Only in this way can you protect yourself, if this absurd doesn't happen like now, here are the articles, there will be blockages of Croatian roads. Not because the peasants want it, but because the administration is writing a bad law, or bad conducts it on a blue diesel so it can't be poured into barrels and canisters, but it has to come with a combination pump that's 30 km away. So where does that make sense? Well, it can only be in Croatia. We pass such laws and then we wonder that farmers give up agricultural production and go to the young ones in Ireland or Germany. ... only if this Croatian Agricultural Chamber is an interesting OPG association. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that can only be if they unite and all 60 grand go to the polls and choose their leadership, not to be forced by a minister they don't have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86847	I thank my esteemed colleague Vlaovic. We have a final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86848	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, esteemed representatives in the Croatian Parliament, here I thank you for the debate under the second reading of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. I thank you for a number of comments that would reduce one of the most important and suggestions for voluntary membership to be reintroduced even though this law prescribes mandatory membership. In the context of the first reading, I stressed that the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, wants a stronger chamber, wants stronger negotiating power, which is why mandatory membership is defined, and therefore I also thank you for calling for all to join and to go to elections, or to go to the election of all members, all holders of the OPGs based on the OPG registers. As I said in the opening statement, the Ministry of Agriculture will assist logistics in conducting the elections. It will not affect or choose the authorities of the chamber, meaning that this Law is also going in the direction of decentralisation and not the influence of the Ministry but that the OPG and OPG themselves, along with voluntary members, legal and natural persons, define in another organisational form, means their bodies, their representatives and their representative bodies at the level of national negotiations, or the EU level. Here, I would single out those comments that are not part of this debate, but it is necessary to answer on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture that several times, a rule on the application of excise duty laws relating to gas oil colored in blue in the People's newspaper, it refers to the types of meaning of the agricultural sectors, number 29/18, which has been in force since this year on the insistence of the Ministry of Agriculture, has no provision that the blue diesel is directly immersed in the agricultural machine. Such a provision became in Regulation 2013, the Ministry of Agriculture insisted on the Ministry of Finance to delete such a provision. The one who adopts the Regulation means the Ministry of Finance may not rule out any irregularities on the ground, but the Ministry of Agriculture has issued a statement, and that even from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament we send a clear message that this provision does not stand in the Regulation and here, I would only be bound by a harvest that has already been made available in the course of the year 2016, even 50% of the number of hectares in 2017. So the index under the surfaces of the wheat itself, but also the index as regards oiled rape and barley, means growth. So, trends are positive relationships are probably related to the price that was last year that satisfied agricultural producers and this year we have changed the rule that defined means not the price but the rule on criteria, qualitative criteria, or qualitative classes of wheat varieties for the crop this year. Once again, I would like to thank everyone for the importance of the parliamentary representatives who participated in the debate, who contributed to this quality of the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86849	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State Majdak. We have one replica, dear colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86850	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you may have missed the end in the closing statement to say in principle what is unfortunately not being said here today. The agricultural chamber should be something where farmers will organize themselves interestingly and try to solve all these problems that concern them and even perform together in some things because it is the meaning of the chamber. Because if the chamber doesn't do that, then these problems that my colleagues and colleagues have been talking about today will be repeated for many more years. And I think maybe today the debates were just supposed to go into what that chamber should be doing because these problems that stand out whenever we talk about agriculture they repeat themselves. But let's see how these chambers work in countries with more experience than we do, which are organized and which work in the interest of farmers and let's talk in this direction. And then for a while if the chamber doesn't realize it then we can say that something has to change there and maybe you should have done it in the final word but here, my replica is to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86851	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. This concludes the debate. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Majdak, and the head of the Agriculture Ministry sector, Mr. Marin Fak, for the reasons and answers. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86852	Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, second reading, P.Z. No. 317, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by SDP Representatives' Club, MP Tomislav Panenic, MP Miro Bulj, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, I would ask the applicant's representative to show that the amendments submitted have been made. With us is dear colleague Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86853	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86854	First amendment to the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86855	The amendment is not accepted. In 2012, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber was suspended and a voluntary membership was introduced which led to... a significant number of members, so today Croatia's agricultural chamber numbers only about 500 members, or 0.3% of the total number of farmers enrolled in the register of agricultural holdings, which does not represent the representativeness of the Croatian farmers' headquarters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mandatory membership for all farmers enrolled in the register of family farms, in the work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, will include a far greater number of farmers in order to ensure credibility in the unique representation of the interests of all farmers, in the creation of public policies related to agriculture and rural development, both at national and international and EU level, and mainly in the negotiations and implementation of the new EU common agricultural policy. In addition to mandatory membership, for all other natural and legal persons registered in the register of farmers, a voluntary membership is also prescribed. The amount of membership fee of 6 kuna per month for the members of the chamber shall be below the financial benefits that the CAPs and other farmers may already achieve today if they are members of the chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86856	It's obvious, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86857	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. In the spirit of avoiding parafiscal burdens as well as duplication and overlapping of the competences and activities of state institutions, we believe that membership in the HPC should be voluntary, especially because the Agricultural Advisory Service is already carrying out advisory work that we all taxpayers are paying. Therefore, the question arises whether it will double and overlap these powers? In addition, the fact that it is currently not necessarily HPK or membership in it, almost less than 1% of farmers benefit from and mentioning the benefits of membership, I think they speak enough about the capacity of the chamber to represent and relevantly represent and fight for this part of our citizens. Therefore, the chamber should primarily act on the market and attract users or members to the conveniences and the way in which it stands for them. If you consider that certain agricultural producers, depending on how they perform on the market, are both craftsmen or companies then bear in mind that they must be members and other chambers, HOK, HGK has a whole series of parafiscal duties that already pay. And honestly, colleagues and colleagues, that's what I was saying in the debate, and my colleagues from the SDP Club of Representatives, I'm trying to remember exactly what the HPK was up to and what it did to Croatian farmers. The fact that less than 1% are now members, I think it talks about their effectiveness more than enough, which is why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86858	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number two of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86859	The amendment is not accepted. Farmers in the organisational form of agricultural crafts are mandatory members of the HOK while farmers are in the organisational form of trading companies compulsory members of the HGK. This law does not provide for additional mandatory membership in the HPC for those organisational forms of farmers, but gives the possibility of voluntary membership in addition to mandatory introduction and voluntary membership for all other natural and legal persons registered in the Register of Farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86860	It's obvious, pal Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86861	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Secretary of State. So we believe that the HPK membership should be extended in a way that all those receiving state incentives have the right to be members. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86862	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are going to Amendment number 3 of MPs Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86863	The amendment is not accepted, and the reasons are the same as in Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86864	It's obvious. Here's my colleague Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86865	Thank you very much. Here we have had a lot of debates, and within the Committee of Parliament, where we have discussed the problems that this law will bring during its implementation. The very problem of billing the amount you are proposing will become an insurmountable obstacle to the work of the HPK. Logically, it was reasonable for all of us here to make a decision in the House to secure sufficient resources from the state budget, thereby reducing parafiscal burdens, ensuring membership in COPA COJACK, which is so much emphasized and thus removing from the agenda whether there is any political influence at all. In this way everyone can be a member and those benefits that you should only get members, so all those who are not they will not get benefits. We don't think that's fair either. We're looking for this motion to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86866	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment four of Mira Bulj's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86867	The amendment is not accepted, the reasons are the same as for Amendments 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86868	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86869	Thank you very much. Interest, secretary, the interest of farmers should protect the chamber, but the chamber did not protect farmers' interests, and they should still pay for it and impose payment on those who are fighting them because the agricultural chamber was supposed to be the main dam in the fight for the protection of farmers. But we see the results, we see from when the chamber has been working to destroy Croatian agriculture, to import 20 billion food, to see the problem in the Neretva Valley with melons and watermelons and other products, we see that in Slavonia dairy production has been destroyed. Therefore, I believe that this chamber is too high, this chamber is essentially protecting pests in the Ministry of Agriculture, more pests than any pest in agriculture that have led to this within the Ministry of Agriculture that import lobbies destroy Croatian agriculture. It is a senseless chamber that does not protect farmers Farmers have tried to protect themselves from the Ministry of Agriculture and vermin at the Ministry of Agriculture, and the chamber is one of those pests that has not helped farmers. As you will say, so we simply see the results of Croatian agriculture, the fields in the weeds, there is no cattle and that is a fact, and they predict that next year they will not be on shelves in Croatia at all, while the Croatian product in the tourist season cannot be placed in our tourism. Our interest in the Bridge is exclusively the sovereign interest of fighting for Croatian farmers, not for import lobbies, let alone that they are still paying in the chamber for their membership of farmers, even if you force them to do so. Please, fellow MPs, let's not allow a hack over the remains of the farmers in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86870	Thanks, buddy Bull. Are you looking for a vote? ... Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 5 of the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86871	The amendment is not accepted. The law has made it clear how the Chamber is obliged to hold elections for the bodies of the Chamber, the Assembly, the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the President of the Chamber by 31 December 2018 at the latest. Furthermore, the Law stipulates that the Assembly is the most precisely the body of the Chamber, which consists of members of the Chamber, to be elected in the direct elections and to be prescribed that the way of the elections, composition and part-round assembly is determined by the statute. The main components of the statutes are also prescribed, with the previous opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and the obligation to publish the statutes in the National Journal. Finally, the Chamber is obliged to comply with the statutes and other acts in accordance with the Law within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86872	It's obvious, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86873	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Since this amendment is directly related to this previous one you refused, we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86874	Thank you. Then let's go to Amendment No. Six of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86875	The amendment is not accepted. The law prescribes the most authorised membership fee precisely for reasons to protect the members of the Chamber by law from the provision of membership fees in a higher amount. Mandatory members of the Chamber are OPGs registered in the OPG Register which is not the most numerous organisational form of farmers, as many as 97% are in the OPG Farmers Register, and a voluntary membership for all other natural and legal persons registered in the Register of Farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86876	It's obvious, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86877	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So we disagree with your argument. We believe that membership of the Chamber of Agriculture should be determined by the Assembly, not by the Ministry, and for this reason we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86878	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment No. 7th Representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86879	The amendment is not accepted. Mandatory membership for all farmers enrolled in the OPG Journal of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber will include a far greater number of farmers in order to ensure credibility in the unique representation of the interests of all farmers in the creation of public policies related to agriculture and rural development at both national and EU and international level, and in particular in negotiations on the new EU common agricultural policy and implementation. A voluntary membership for all other natural and legal persons registered in the Register of Farmers is also required. The amount of membership fee of 6 kuna per month for the members of the Chamber is the amount which is financially below certain benefits that the OPG and other farmers can already achieve today if they are members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86880	Obviously, fellow Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86881	Thank you very much. While you are able to defend Croatian peasants in European bodies, as far as Croatian agriculture is concerned, the situation we now have does not work, there is degradation, meat prices go down, goods are imported, inspections are not carried out that have been announced. I hope the secretary of state will come here one day. Also in front of the Croatian public, it is good to introduce a new impose because it is in their interest. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86882	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. Eight MPs of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86883	The amendment is not accepted. One way to finance and work The Chamber is a mandatory membership fee for all members of the Chamber and these funds are necessary for the smooth execution of the tasks of the Chamber prescribed by these Law and for the members of the Chamber of International Agricultural Associations. The chamber has been a member since 2014... which has been declared the main organisation of agricultural producers at EU level since 2018. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to membership fees, the resources necessary for the work of the Chamber shall also be provided by means of their own activities, government budgets, and exceptional income.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86884	It's obvious. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86885	Thank you very much. While you mention how you will protect Croatian farmers in the EU, at the same time you impose a hack here, at the same time we have a growing number of OPGs, at the same time you allow the foreigners to buy agricultural land in 2020, while at the same time allowing foreigners to own the OPGs, while young people leave us and the stables and farms remain empty. So, who's going to pay you this voluntarily to the Chamber who worked against the peasants, which was the same vermin as you for farmers in the Ministry of Agriculture. All inside you worked exclusively for import lobbys, against peasants and peasant Croatian is no longer sovereign because you forgot it, you, the Chamber destroyed it and yet you force it to pay for those arrests. We're sick of 9,000 arrests in 56 agencies in Croatia, and I won't talk about offices, administrations and more of these chambers, and the villagers will move out. Can Croatian peasants and natural and legal persons in Hungary buy agricultural land? Go and see. I can't. And in Croatia I can. Is this a fight for a Croatian peasant in the European Parliament? Is this a struggle for sovereign agriculture and a sovereign farmer? It's not. Why don't you pay the interests of foreign officials out of your pocket, not at the expense of farmers. I think this is one of the worse laws to pay for the Chamber against peasants, just as many agencies do, many offices, administrations that are the purpose of only voting machinery to remain in power and continue to destroy the Croatian village and farmers. I'm asking for a vote. I'm sorry it's not Minister Tolusic that he explains how much he's made for the village.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86886	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86887	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. My colleague Bulj is on several occasions Mr. Secretary of State and I said what article, I said, I said. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86888	My colleague... Just a little buddy Bacic. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I ask you to behave yourself, not to throw yourself out of the bench, not to interrupt the speaker. You spoke in peace, no one told you anything, let others do it. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86889	On several occasions, Bulj called Mr. Secretary of State and the ministry official a vermin, and it would be good to warn him because he is insulting both members of the government and fellow MPs, today on several occasions and a special calling, and he insists on passing without warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86890	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86891	If you had warned him, he should have already lost his right to the word on all points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86892	Comrade Bačić, time's up. Thank you. So I haven't warned, the viewer himself, the citizens will assess what individual MPs say, and what each of us says best about himself. What is it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86893	Short, if you'll excuse the Rules of Procedure, in peace, if I may?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86895	According to Article 238 of my colleague Bačić, he demeans MPs because if I say something picturesque, if the prime minister says such a thing. that I am a hive, it is picturesque, you know, I have said picturesquely that those in the ministry of pests that destroyed Croatian agriculture, which worked against Croatian farmers, are greater pests than all weeds in the area of the Republic of Croatia that have emerged from history, from the beginning, from the Ottoman Empire to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86896	Thank you very much. So it is not nice to insult, it is not nice to tell someone that it is a hive, that it is a pest, I think it should be avoided in this Croatian Assembly... If that's picturesque to you, then that's fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's okay. Nothing we're going to vote now, no excuse, we have a vote on the amendment of fellow Bulls, which the government refuses, please. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Thank you, Secretary of State. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86897	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, before voting on the next item of the agenda, I request a 30-minute break to further consult on the following. Namely, the bill allows members of the Croatian Audiovisual Council to find themselves in conflict of interest and provide themselves with property benefits in a way
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86898	Wait, pal Bunjac, you're looking for a break for the next point? Because we haven't voted this one on the agricultural chamber yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86899	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86900	It's not good, no, let's vote this out, and then you'll explain it, okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86901	Okay, come on, let's vote first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86902	Yes, because there are others who will answer. Let us then vote first on the final proposal of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 76 for, 4 abstentions and 27 against the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, based on Article 247. I propose that the following points be held on a united debate, that is: - Report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2017, applicant: Allianz ZB d.o.o. company for the management of compulsory pension funds; - Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d. for 2017, applicant: Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds d.d.; - Report on the work of mandatory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds for 2017, applicant: Erste d.o.o. Company for the Management of Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds; - Report on the work of mandatory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia Insurance d.d. for the management of mandatory pension funds for 2017, applicant: PBZ Croatia insurance d.d. to manage mandatory pension funds; is there any of the respected colleagues and colleagues against us uniting this debate? No, thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Mandatory pension fund law. We will discuss these points in accordance with Article 44(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as proposed by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. The debate was conducted by the responsible Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The government has delivered its opinion. I call upon the representative of the applicant, Mr. Kristian Buk, president of the Board of the AZ Mandatory Pension Fund to give us an additional explanation of the report on the work of the funds. Here you go, Mr. Bucca.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86904	Good afternoon, dear Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I will present to you the results of all mandatory pension funds for 2017. At the end of 2017, there were a million and 844 thousand and 272 members in compulsory pension funds and the total assets under management amounted to HRK 91.9 billion, representing an increase of 9.2% compared to 2016. Of these mentioned nearly 92 billion kuna, 31 billion kuna is a profit that pension funds have earned for their members and credited to their personal accounts, 31 billion kuna. For our members who have entered the pension reform from the very beginning, the visible situation in their personal accounts has been a 40% increase compared to payments paid by the state since the beginning. The average annual contribution of the MIREX B fund from the start of work to the end of 2017, we always try to talk about the average index from the start of work because we think it is only relevant, the long-term investment period and the long-term investment is 5.76%, which points to meeting the key objectives of pension reform, ensuring the security of members' funds paid, and achieving contributions that will increase pension savings. The average annual contribution of category A liabilities which were slightly younger was 8.95% of the C6.93% of the project. In the past 2017, it also ended with satisfactory positive contributions especially if we observe them in the context of market conditions and given that we are in a low inflation environment and low interest rates. So the contribution for category A in 2017 was 4,57%, for category B 3,06%, and for category C was 6,08% and absolute earnings for our members amounted to over 2 billion and 700 million kuna. The total property of compulsory pension funds represents 26% of GDP at the end of 2017 and represents an increase of 9.5% compared to the end of 2016 and according to this indicator, Croatia is a leader among the transition states. I would like to draw your attention to an independent OECD survey to which Croatian pension funds or Croatian pension funds fall to the very top of real contributions in the countries of Europe and have a better real average in the last 10 years, measured from 2006 to 2016 from most OECD members. The real contribution, just to be clear, is the real contribution to the difference between this previously mentioned yield of nominal reduced by inflation rate. And if you let me just give you a few examples, then Croatia is in the fifth place with a real offering of 3.2% while above us countries such as Norway, Australia, Belgium, Switzerland, and some of the countries in our environment that are very often compared to the Czech Republic, like Slovakia, like Bulgaria, like Latvia and Estonia have negative contributions, which means that they have reduced the property of their members in that period of 10 years. Diversification of investments and professional asset management has contributed to neither significant disturbances nor these generated problems in the Agrokor concert have led to a major decline in the value of the total assets of the funds and have had a crucial impact on the yields achieved. The value paper of Agrokor concert represented a small share in the assets of pension funds and never crossed 1.5% of the total assets and could in no way have had a significant impact on future pensions. Today, exposure to Agrokor is measured at the end of 2017 in prominence. What I would like to point out is that, since the start of the investment at industry level, Croatian pension funds have achieved a positive result by investing in Agrokor securities, and there is no talk about the endangered pension system of our investments. It is important to note that our investments are portfolio investments and that this means that they consist of very, very much smaller investments and thus no investments, so neither of these in Agrokor could play a crucial role nor endanger our pension system. As far as our costs are concerned, the pension company may charge an entry, management and exit fee in accordance with the legal provisions and, according to sufficient data, independent Croatian mandatory pension funds and are placed in the cheapest providers of this service in Central and Eastern Europe. In addition to the fact that our fees are lower than others and are constantly falling until they reach a level of 0.30%, we are talking about management of the fie, or management fee, we, unlike other countries, are also funding the REGOS and financial services control agency, and that still represents an additional 0.99% of our management of the fie. The peace funds invest a significant part of the funds in Croatian companies continue to be interested in investment in infrastructure projects and investments in all quality projects that will bring long-term transfer for members. The primary objective of pension funds is always the same, the security of the investment of the assets of its members. From establishment to date, mandatory pension funds have invested more than 9 billion kunas in Croatian companies and remain a key factor in long-term domestic financing in the Republic of Croatia. To conclude, in addition to the above mentioned above, 92 billion under management, 31 billion of which pension funds have earned for their members, millions and 800, over a million 840 000 members, with an adequate capital position that we have and an adequate guarantee deposit that is regularly allocated, clearly points to the stability and sustainability of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia. Here's so much from me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86905	Thank you. Would anyone else like to give a statement to the fund's representatives? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We have several replicas on the exhibit of the respected Mr. Buch. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86906	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I'm curious, I haven't been able to get anywhere, even though I've been reading even reports published on the Internet, what's the president of the Peace Society administration's salary, along with bonuses and bonuses at the annual level? So I'm curious about what his gross and NETO is paying. That information, you say, has been there for over 15 years, and I couldn't find that information anywhere, so I'm wondering if you're already insisting on transparency, that you respect it, why can't I get that information and whether I can get it from you here right now or if you're going to deliver it to me by written means on my representative's question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86907	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Answer, dear colleague Buck, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86908	Dear Representative, the data on the remuneration of pension fund management members are contained in the audit reports published on our home page.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86909	I thank you for your response to Mr. Buk. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86910	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, you were saying in your presentation you were actually making contributions to A, B and C as far as I saw 4.57. AB 3.06, C 6.8 and there was a lot of investment, capitalisation as far as I know the companies in the Republic of Croatia, but I didn't hear it and you didn't say how much it was to manage the funds themselves, I think that would be correct to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86911	I thank Mr. Babic. Mr. Buck's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86912	As regards the management fee, it was 0.39% for 2017 and has now fallen by an additional 7% in 2018 and is 0.36 and 365%, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86913	I thank you for your response to Mr. Buk. Next replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86914	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So you're talking about portfolio investments, so maybe aggregated if you can give me that information from these investments in shares in the Republic of Croatia about 9.7 billion kuna, at least sectorally, I see that you're investing a lot in tourism, you're probably investing in agriculture, so I'm interested in purely sectoral whether you have as much in certain sectors as you do in future reports by completing these reports with these sectoral investment pension funds. So I don't need to at least individually see that in the report you're instructions from a particular company, I think it was important to diversify the risk exactly what you mentioned, as much in energy as in tourism, as in some other species. I think it would be good that this is exactly what you were saying about Agrokor to see the entire structure of that stock portfolio and to show how to diversify the risk and how to adequately manage the portfolio. And the second part of the question is what I'm going to talk about later in my presentation... because watch state bonds have fewer contributions that will certainly mean for pension funds for less yields, and I think we're going to have to work on legal frameworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86915	Thank you, Mr. Lalovac, for asking. The answer, Mr. Buck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86916	I don't have it at industry level right now, so if I could try to guess, I'd say tourism and telecommunications, and I could say for our portfolio in the AZ that we have 4% of the financial industry, that we have 4% of tourism, that we have 3% of the health care here are some examples of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86917	I thank you for your response to Mr. Buk. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86918	Thank you very much. It is known that Croatian citizens do not have financial literacy and that they need to work on it, we have been talking about it for years. I'd only be interested in two data, how many insurance companies have decided to fund and so the one with greater risk and if we have at the level of the entire industry? And secondly, how many of our fellow citizens have decided to change the fund, so that means they've looked at the fund that they're already in so they'd better go to another fund, so I'm wondering how many of our citizens have changed the fund in the first place? So did the AZ fund go to Erste, from Ersta to Raiffeisen, if you have this information and this information as many of our fellow citizens as are members of this more risky A fund at all? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86919	Thank you, Mr. Mrsic. Hey, buddy Buck's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86920	Now it may be a good opportunity for the financial literacy you mentioned, so last year we started a major financial literacy project for our citizens in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and our home ministry where we, as pension funds, will try to educate our citizens as much as we can on pension funds on finance in general and on how they can act and what we can do in the change of funds. As for the fund and I'd aggregate at industry level I'd say it's maybe 1.5% no more than that, about, don't take me for a word, we can provide you with concrete information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86921	I thank Mr. Buk for his reply to the replica. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? Thank you very much. A representative of the government, perhaps? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. He's not present to lose his right to debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86922	Thank you very much. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretaries and representatives of pension funds. At the very beginning, we saw that this debate didn't go in the right direction, namely, I asked how much the presidents of the pension fund administration have annual salary. I got an answer to look at myself on the Internet, I said I looked at it but I didn't find it, so here's another fund representative to say, it's not hard for him to figure out what the amount at the annual level is. I think our pensioners deserve to know the same thing as the whole public. Because for so long as you hide that information like you're pointing a finger at it, it's among other things an old Chinese proverb. I've already talked about the subject of pension funds here several times, but since repeating the mother learning is not a waste of repeating some things, that is, before I have the first time I have the opportunity to speak in the presence of representatives of pension funds in which all of us who are involved in the debate have our own personal accounts. So the pension insurance system in Croatia consists of three pillars of which the first two are mandatory, the third is voluntary, and the mandatory pillar means that employers are obliged to pay contributions from workers' salaries. The first pillar is in the jurisdiction of the state, it is paid about 15% of the salary contributions, i.e. a pure 15% or 75% of the pension amount, and the second is in the jurisdiction of pension funds whose representatives are sitting here and are paid 5%, or 25% of the pension funds or one quarter. The second pillar is managed by private-owned pension companies or by banks, and under the supervision of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been shortened by HANFA. The funds for each insurance company keep a personal account, and we also have this personal account where existing payments are sought to increase by contributions most often made by investment in government bonds or shares. Thanks to the personal account, investment in the second pillar is presented as saving citizens, which is not true, however, since savings can be freely available, and in this case money from the second pillar cannot be freely available or used as a guarantee, nor is it possible to spend even less on determining how they will be available. It is not possible, among other things, because the pension society is not allowed to sit on those whose money is available, and these are the pensioners themselves. The only thing that members of the second mandatory pillar have the right to choose which three categories their money will go to, is whether it is the most risky category C which is the least risky, and as we have seen it reportedly brings the highest yields. This reform, which we are now talking about, reform I, II and III, was introduced in 2002, assuming that future pensioners would receive a pension greater than they were supposed to get, and thus the state was said to function better, i.e. GDP growth, employment growth, debt reduction. But it happened exactly the opposite. In fact, many things were not clear to the citizens at the time, and they do not understand, unfortunately, day or day, so perhaps they need to be explained what this is about. To be honest, it wasn't clear to me that long before I was very interested in this whole problem. For example, citizens naively believe that money from the second pillar is inherited. They inherit that, in case you die before you become a user of retirement. In case you become a user of retirement, the money is not inherited at that time. Also, citizens do not know that very high fees must be paid to these gentlemen sitting here, and they also have to pay fees, and regardless, so there are certain benefits in taking pensions themselves, for example. For the third voluntary pillar, you have to give a fee of 10% saved money, with sometimes getting paid as much as 30% of the payments. The second pillar is supposed to have yields. Here, we heard from the gentleman who exhibited here that he has yields, but the second pillar also has expenses. These costs are also referred to as transitional costs by the State or pension pillars. These costs are seen in the fact that the introduction of the second pillar has increased public debt, which the state had to pay additionally in order to be able to pay pensions, given that it was left without a quarter of its assets and that these transitional costs were actually higher than the contributions made by pension funds. So when we add up plus and minus, the state is down to a few tens of billions of kuna. So there's no gain from the voluntary funds of these mandatory second pillars. I'll try to elaborate it for a while. Since a quarter of the funding was missing in the first pillar, the state had to borrow one quarter of the pension funds. She had to borrow. After she borrowed that money, that money had to be paid interest. As the state became more in charge, there was a decline in the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. There has been a slowdown in GDP, there has been a decrease in the number of employees, or an increase in the number of unemployed. As a result, there was emigration and, ultimately, there was an increase in taxes, and above all, VAT. So let's remind ourselves that VAT in 2002 is 22%, and today it's 25 percent high. This is the direct consequence of the introduction of the second mandatory pension pillar. So, contrary to what they said would increase the number of employees, it didn't increase, it decreased by 400 grand. That the number of pensioners would shrink, it didn't, it increased by 300 grand. Today, only 9% of Croatian pensioners have a full-time job and get a pension. She's gone. So most citizens don't have a full-time job. They're getting some sort of defective pension, early, like this, made up because people were actually sent into retirement so they wouldn't get fired. It was a social measure. You're not going to the stock market, you're not getting fired, you're getting some kind of pension, etc. The second pension column suffered a complete breakdown for several reasons. Look at this information. 130,000 people who had the right to choose between the first and second pillars, 99,9 chose pensions from the first pillar. Only 150 people, so some kind of cosmetic figure chose to take pensions from the second pillar. The government of Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor met with this problem, who then invented a pension supplement from the first pillar, but at this point even after 10 years of this measure, those pensioners who would like to leave, and now they must, already, have pensions from the first and second pillars, have a minus 27% minus. There's been a rumor here that they're going to have more pensions, and they have a minus 27%, that's a huge minus. Someone who has a pension who was born in 1961 and has a pension, say, 3000 kuna, who was born in 1962 has 2250 kuna. So there's a terrible subversive. Also, even if a man accidentally pays a second pension stake for, say, the next 10-15 years, a man who has a minimumer from the second pillar will receive 315 kuna. 315 kuna! And a man with a salary of 7500 kuna, which is very little in the Republic of Croatia, will have a pension from the second pillar of 900 or 1000 kuna. Are these the bigger pensions the pension reform was talking about? No, they're not. It's a miserable pension. Croatia is now the country with the lowest standards of pensioners in the EU, with the goal of making even less pensions. We have only 38% of pensions compared to salaries and there are no EU member states. They have some even 70, 80% of course significantly higher wages, we're only 38. We're the lamest. And I will now tell you what was the objective of the pension reform. The pension reform aimed at reducing pensions. I repeat, cutting pensions, no increase has been foreseen yet at the beginning, was predicted exactly the opposite of what we have now. It was meant to be taken from people and given to fat geese. It's a classic banking product, I would dare say a classic gambling project in which those who invest always lose and those who monitor money always get. It's just, it's been coming up for years, it's the same story as the Swiss franc, with illegal interest. So one side gets exclusively and the other side just loses. And that's the whole point. And that's why I'm asking what your salary is. You know how many fees they have, how many fees do these funds have? 400 million kunas every year. They take from our payments between 7% and 8%. And now you tell me what it must be to invest in bonds and our bonds have no investment potential. So these bonds of ours are who didn't know the trash, literally, that's what they're called. And how can you, by what investments, compensate for the loss of 7% and still bring some yields, etc. There's no offering. And this was understood by all the countries in Europe that had the second pillar, all of them, all but Croatia. And Slovakia and Slovenia don't have it, and the Czech Republic, and Lithuania and Romania and Hungary and Bulgaria, all the other pillars have turned into a voluntary pension column and not more compulsory than of course Croatia. With us we are still the last in everything, any reforms, still believing in us give people naively that from that second pillar they will have something, that it is some kind of savings, etc. Croatia cannot be drawn from debt slavery, nor can it have fewer taxes, nor can it stop emigration, nor can it have demographic measures, nor can it have a standard as long as these pillars are mandatory, it can't, it can't. And that is what Croatian citizens, the Croatian state simply must understand. Not only do we have to pay more taxes, not only do we have a demographic disaster but we don't have money for education, we don't have money for health care, we don't have money for culture. At the same time, we have to pay different excise fees, we see that our fuel, the price is what it is, we're more expensive than any other country, and we have to pay what fees, we have to pay, I don't know what we don't have to pay anymore, I guess we just breathe air. At the same time, I repeat once again, pension funds are at no risk. If they suffer some loss and we see that there are funds here that have done very little business. What will be the consequence? Well, people will have fewer pensions, they'll cut pensions. Will he cut his own fees, of course he won't. And then what are they doing with that money? They're dealing with it the way it suits them. They speculate with our money, speculate, finance their own banks' needs, waste. Watch what they're investing in, they're investing in a central bank, in a Credo bank, in a Nexe group, in a don't know Optima, all of those companies that no one's ever heard of. How is that possible? And they normally suffer terrible losses. They're buying Petrokemia's 170 kuna shares, today they're worth 11. They buy Agrokor shares, suffer catastrophic losses, a billion kuna, which is a billion kuna, they will pay the people. That's how they have our money. If they have a surplus share of the members of the administration and do not reinvest it in the Croatian economy and end up in the pensioners themselves who received the money. Since I don't have any more time, now I've just presented the problem, the solutions offered by the Living Wall, which should be implemented in relation to these pension funds, I'm going to say in an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86923	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86924	Dear Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of pension fund management companies, respected ministry representatives, state secretaries and assistants. I will listen with special attention to the motion for a solution to the Living Wall after this debate on behalf of the Living Wall Club but I will ask my colleague Bunjec to answer me first in his individual debate with which figures he is talking about certain percentages relative to the salary, since it seems to me that he does not know how many pensioners Croatia has. Because if they're dealing with a million 234 thousand pensioners, then there's a mistake for only 168 thousand pensioners because it's the number that has a pension but doesn't live in Croatia, it doesn't live in Croatia except for that pension that's paid abroad as a proportional pension it receives something in its home countries. Therefore, we can discuss everything but it is our obligation as parliamentary representatives not to accept statistical reports for granted but rather to analyse them and to make proposals for a solution on a sound basis. And I will always like you, Mr. Bunjac, say that retirement is small, that pension is small because I am in function and improving the pension system all these years of political work and improving pension rights, but one thing I will tell you and all of us. Regardless of having one pillar, two or three pillars, a small salary will give a small miserable, or at best the lowest pension in a single pension, and for a two- and three-stage pension we still don't know what that lowest pension will look like. But I repeat again, with the minimum salary she is today in Croatia, pensions will certainly be small. Therefore, we can talk about the consequences that were, but we are not talking about the causes of what needs to be changed to improve tomorrow's pensions. Of course, with the lowest salary, or minimum salary, or pensions from the 1st pillar, or pensions from II. The pillar, and the total pension, unfortunately, will not be better than today. And second from those 120,000 mentioned by counterpart Bunjac, they will leave for nine more years to retire and have the right to decide whether a pension from the 1st pillar alone will have the right to choose a more favourable right. Or maybe something here will be smart and we'll give them a yearly deposit in the first pension column at 20% of the contributions might be a 27% supplement so that those two pensions are equal somewhere or we can further improve the second pillar with additional opportunities, which we can if we want to make it interesting for the users. One thing is certain for those who pay mandatory pension funds, and that is the undisputed right to exercise the right in the event of death to what is saved in the mandatory pension fund, if death occurs before retirement. It is a kind of protection for the safety of the family or for the social security of the family, and how much savings it will be, it is very individual, as well as all pension rights very, very, very, very individual. All the disaster on the labour market for the last 27 and more years, from Markovic and forward, in the former state, shows a rise of nearly 10,000 annual lowest pensions, which means that we have a tremendous flow into the pension system of people who received part of the salary in cash, and part of it legally, that employers did not pay contributions, God forbid some of the industries that the state has been rehabilitated do not recognise them through the recoverys of contributions, we would today have at least 400 000 lowest pensions and so the system is not being built. We can be in a turning point here, we have 3 pillars, that 3 pillars of the Croatian society produced as a product of the social consensus or social partners in 1998, we can persist in savings and be Denmark that has 209% of GDP, which means, I roughly calculated, at least 400 billion euros in pension funds, regardless of whether they are compulsory or voluntary. We can discuss whether we're going to part of these funds or some things change, whether we're going to define a transition to something that's a voluntary pension fund, whether it's a piece of that, it's going to go down with that III. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013. Column 750 kuna at the highest annual level, or 15% at 5000 kuna level. So we can, if we want to improve this system, as finally here we are discussing reports of compulsory pension funds, i.e. the company's management of compulsory pension funds, because the Croatian party of pensioners in 2014, Mrsic proposed an amendment that, regardless of what private companies, companies, they do business in the public interest, in the public interest for the citizens of Croatia, but also for the state of Croatia and that it is okay for us in the Croatian Assembly to discuss this report once a year. I think it's a promotion. I believe that the promotions and changes and additions of the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds that we bring and pension insurance companies and that it is not a matter that is once adopted for all time. Of course, I personally see much stronger and greater roles of mandatory pension funds than this report, these reports are correctly made on the trail of last year, they show who wants to see something in them that is correctly done, they hide almost nothing, and insinuate can be anything and as correct reports from club GLAS and HSU will support their adoption. But we don't think that this is the ultimate reach of pension funds in their public function, I think that in the fall we have to sit down, it would be good if they were sponsors of such a set where workers' unions must be because this is not the issue of the current pensioners, for the current pensioners, this has something to do with what Mr. Bunjac was talking about public debt, about the overrun from the VAT to pay off pensions, but what we're talking about today has an impact on those future pensioners, so on those who are still in working relationships today. Workers' trade unions should also be invited to one debate that still needs to be discussed, and how pension funds should be encouraged to be both better at work and make them feel appropriate positions for investment rights, so not only bonds, so they can agree with the predecessor that they are not just bonds to invest in, but all governments are highly invited to design projects where mandatory pension funds can be financed in the long term, so that they can then be financed over 20, 30, 40 years in the long term. I have always pointed out today that a potential investment by Luka Gruz would give income to pension funds for the next 30, 40 years, but it is necessary to create such an investment as may need to create a model to build hydropower plants or large infrastructure projects from which a long-term contribution can be made. It is also necessary to think about those who may never work, who will be entitled to or will need a pension, will come old and powerless, and at this point if they do not have an internship or have an internship under 15 years of age, then they will have nothing to live on. Scandinavian funds have decided to invest in pension or Scandinavian states have decided to invest in pension funds and based on the extraction of mineral wealth to create a position for those who and those who will not have a working relationship just because they are citizens of those countries in certain late years to have the right to social security from these funds. So I think this is the time, we can all criticise, we can be the one 100% against the manager's salary, but we can't believe that members of the pension fund management board are among those 23 Croats or Croatian citizens who receive more than 500 thousand kuna per month. Just tell us, whether or not, but 23 Croatian citizens receive more than 500 thousand kuna per month. Why don't we ask ourselves who these people are? Let's ask ourselves what kind of people they are, either on a quiz the other day. 23 more than 500 thousand kuna a month. No, no, no, no, no, Whether they're football players, whether they're public notebooks, whether they're pharmacists, that's not what we're interested in. Now we've got a game to shoot and hit on, I don't believe it, but the pay is also a sort of personal secret and I have to accept it. But a global report can be given what the costs of the administration are. I didn't ask, I'll look for the same in the audit reports to see what it looks like. I see no-one here present that they are not among these 23, I am not to defend them, let them defend themselves and let them say what they think of that story. So I see the second role of mandatory pension funds and financial literacy, but not in one time, but we, like all structures of society and pensioners and ministries and funds and labour unions, need to talk about what are the neural points of the total pension system. I do not experience that the first pillar is special, the second, especially, the third, these are three pillars that hold a house called the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, it is burdened with little internships, it is burdened with low wages and it is burdened with the great needs of the old population. And I think we're all invited here not only to hit the kale, as we would say, but to be constructive and to see what can be fixed in that whole story. If it can't be fixed and if the damage is irreparable let's change it, but let's first face the arguments and see which bush the rabbit lies in and what is the problem, and what causes we have to deal with, and not exclusively the consequences and individual cases. Once again, GLAS and HSU will support mandatory pension funds reports as correct, technically neat, and we will continue to participate in finding new opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86925	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86926	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry and respected representatives of pension funds. We have brought together a report on the work of mandatory pension funds, I think that only the sector is properly drawn up, and I only ask for the future of what we are doing today for an even greater transparency, and that in the future these questions of certain investments in certain companies in order to get an insight and you have it individually on every mandatory pension fund, but that this grouping means that we have this particular sectoral investment, so that the specific way in which you and that portfolio of the shares in which you are owned, which you actively manage to see at least sectoral how you actually contribute to the development of the economy, is that this sector is divided, is that the leading risks to this particular sector, and that you have in fact agreed that a certain percentage of the tourism sector, in the financial industry, in some other industries, and I believe that in this way, in fact, in fact, there will be all major arguments that there are too much important in terms that you have in terms, and in terms that there are important, that the key, which are important and that the key, which are important, in the key, in terms, which are important, in the key, in terms, which are important, Just like when we're talking, when we're talking about investment here and later I'm gonna get to it, actually most of the investment is... i.e. the investment of pension funds refers to government bonds, and we know that in the past it was a safe, stable product because government bonds were 6% yields. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also simple because of the rating of the Republic of Croatia, not entering the single European market, etc. But that's why you're better, let's be open, you've had better contributions than they've had in other countries because we know that when someone invests in the bonds of the Republic of Germany or when they invest in Swiss bonds, which have negative contributions today, that we can't compare them in that way because there's more emphasis on investment in the economy, less investment in bonds, and that's actually what your original function should be in the public interest. So, not only that OK, that was part of the market because we just didn't have these economic projects and it's actually in the government, actually every government that opens up economic projects for you. Whether it will be certain infrastructure projects, whether it will be investments in energy, whether you will participate, I think tomorrow if there is a privatisation of HEP we should participate in, in some other companies because I think that these are certain benefits and benefits and benefits on the one hand, and for the state, they are good that there is one such stable because you are mostly long-term investors. So, you're not speculators who want to earn on a short-term specific report, and you're actually saying it yourself, that's the basic purpose of some long-term investment, and when it's actually presented to the public that you are, their pensions that they are long-term invested in energy projects and that they know that it's actually a stable income, and we know that only in that part of the energy supply, then your function, especially your public function, will be even better understood, and it will certainly have a much different echo. Through, we know, here it actually appears that the Republic of Croatia has about 26% of the shares in GDP. Now whether it's good or not, we don't actually know. How much should pension funds be in GDP, whether it is positive or negative, because you yourself have reported that we have one country in Croatia as far as Croatia is concerned, means as far as the number of people in Denmark, where they have 209% share in GDP, and you actually have Austria on the other hand, which has only 6%. So, we can't tell if there's anything that might be in their larger share or if Germany has 6%, Slovenia has 7%, the Czech Republic has 8.4%. So it's different actually for different countries. So, as far as it's concerned, it's hard to give a certain part of it to say, let's now pump that part of the investment that we're doing bigger in GDP, that it's going to give, that, in my opinion, it's much more important that you have much more quality infrastructure projects, where you have certain legal constraints, or that you're a partner to every government in that part and maybe they're moving certain legal barriers, that you can be present on the market and actually encourage in that part of the economy. Because without the economy, without a strong economy, no one will have a pension in the future. The fact that we, we can talk like that that you have means, without any stable economy, without economic growth, this is that we can't scare anyone now. However, we cannot avoid it unless it is determined that some kind of company or some kind of company fails. So now he says, let's pull the handcuff now, we're not going to invest anywhere in the economy, we just want to get into government bonds. And then what did we do? In fact, out of fear or perhaps because of some pressure from the public, it was invested in Agrokor, White or something else. At that point they were with very good offerings, you're fine, you said yourself, in that part you had some positive contributions and who knows tomorrow in the future if it means, I just wouldn't want one euphoria of negativity and fear to prevail because then it's actually counterproductive. And then actually these offerings that you're about to make, you're talking 4 and 3% in the long term can't be bigger. You know why I can't be bigger? Here, Minister Maric keeps saying that before each new issue of Croatian bonds he earned or saved means less interest payments from the state budget. The less he pays interest, in fact, the smaller your offerings. You will not be able in the future, and we aim for a single European market, we seek to join a monetary union, so we strive to be on the market and strive in the future that we will have contributions to Croatian bonds as they now have. Germany, like it has, I don't know, Switzerland, Austria, etc. And there will be yields between 1-2%. This is sought by every Croatian government, which means it will reduce the pressure on the budget. Is today the cost of the interest budget only interest, you know that around 10 billion kunas or about 3.4% of GDP are somewhere, and that the state cannot endure 4% in the long term because it must have certain other social transfers and socially endangered citizens who have to transfer that part of the money. And of course it's the desire of every government to cut those yields. By reducing the yield on the market, your offerings will be reduced as well. And then, if we speak in that section, that you are not present on the market, your contributions must be made in the long term by developmental economic projects in Croatia. It must be long-term without fear, without any particular speculation, if you are long-term investors. And then we're going to say that we have a healthy fully healthy pension system and then it's going to be harder to get some disturbances in the economy if you're not in the part of maximizing all the investments on the one hand, but you're not in the short term, so you're not going to get out of certain investments very quickly and in this way perform some speculation on the market. However, the fact is that our financial market is still very shallow, the capital market is very shallow and very few companies have today, especially after what happened on Agrokor that companies will go out on the market, issue their securities to be offered on the other hand and pension funds. Here's what I can briefly say, you listed certain companies that you or you invested in, participated in public competitions, and there's little looking at it, but there's no more of that portfolio. Here's what you said yourself, watch where you invest this year, I think it's long-term good projects, you invest in the hotels of Makarska. I think tourism is especially that now tourism brings that long-term tourism is finally the one with 4.5 stars, we've come to the volume and number of nights and everything to become more profitable and to start making certain contributions to tourism, etc. But all these companies that you've invested in here, we're talking Faros hotels in bankruptcy, Vis in bankruptcy, Blue caves in bankruptcy, Makarska hotels, apartments in Jadran Crikvenica that are... bankrupt, that and maybe a dozen other hotel companies that are now at such a level and probably with their renovation or resold on the financial market, you'll find a certain fine contribution here, and I think they're positive certain investments. But the question arises what after? You don't have a portfolio tomorrow where you could invest. Here you mention that you invested something in Djuru Djakovic, something on the secondary market of Adris, Telecom, but that's okay, those are companies that are stable. But what's the fact is that you lack development infrastructure projects where I say them once again, the government has to open up together with you and these 5.7 billion kunas that you get each year with payments in a second pension column that you still don't have those payments because these payments will only be there in 2025, 1930. when that part will begin to be more significantly determined payments, I think that in this context we should certainly see in the long term how to provide you while that positive cache... is more payment than you have to pay to fight and enter the single European market to see what both your options may be and cross-border investments. Now I don't know that maybe even better than you know what your... I see that you have about 5.4 billion of you have some foreign shares invested in some foreign stocks, but these are all small stakes, these are all some kind of stable companies that probably such... the pressure on reduced yields, the bonds will probably increase the pressure on you. I think there's another specific space here, which is this fee that we've seen to compensate Regos and the compensation of HANFA for me 82 million kuna per year, it's 10 years, it's 100 million euros that we've given to regulators, the state will definitely have to cut it down, it's been reduced, and here I think that the state can make a certain step by reducing both for Regos and for HANFA so that it can find other sources of funding, and that it doesn't have to take long-term from pensions and amounts. It is about 10 million euros a year, but in the total structure of your costs that have now fallen somewhere to 0.39 and without it to 0.30, it certainly amounts to around 45% of the costs which is not small. So that's the space we have, still reducing this part. However, in the long term, and through this reduction, but certainly through one unrelated to this, you said that you were positive and that you were ultimately very good at managing the portfolio that you prove and these contributions and the growth of assets, I'm afraid that in the long run, and every day by cutting on one hand, we are looking forward to making fewer contributions to government bonds. The smaller expenditure on... on the other hand it is certainly a warning for the pension system as to how much they will have to look for other sources in order to make these pensions when they start to pay to full extent that then the pressure on pension funds will not be strong again. So I don't have any particular comments, besides asking you to maybe future investment in certain sectors to explain them a little bit better that you're saying where else the potentials of the Croatian economy are, where you're all involved in these infrastructure projects and that then you see the real contribution you make or what we think in the future that this share will be bigger is going to have to be bigger if you simply live more at the expense of issuing government bonds won't be possible. Is it simple that the processes and economic and political and integration of Croatia have started, there have already been some phases and when we introduce the euro that these costs will be further reduced, which means even more pressure on pension funds. That's why what you said through your conferences, but certainly also in cooperation with the governments that you were working on infrastructure projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86927	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with an associate, gentlemen from the management of mandatory retirement companies. Very interestingly, we are today discussing 100 billion Croatian citizens' assets. Look, the assembly room is empty. Everyone here is going to tell some part of the truth that they think it is. I'm talking about a very dynamic area and what's most important, very long-term because if you're watching this area staticly, you've gone automatically wrong and all the conclusions are going to be that way. I will try to direct my debate on behalf of the HDZ Club in another direction. So let's try to think and think about what should happen legislatively to these funds be what they really are, and that's that Croatian citizens have decent pensions tomorrow, and so that we can talk about it then we simply can't skip some historic things. So, at which point the pension reform, as was then the standard of Croatian citizens, took place, what were the average salaries. Those average salaries were almost twice as low as today. Today, the average salary is already close to more than 6,000 kuna, at which point it was 3000 and some more kuna. The financial market at that time in the Republic of Croatia practically did not exist at all. You had one transaction that was in place, it was the sale of Pliva and then you have one financial period of significant economic growth in the Republic of Croatia that was on average about 4% for several years, so you have then also the recovery of the financial market and the possibility of investment. However, what is interesting and what is important and what must be said here, which is the current article of the 127th Law, and some article in the old law was clearly defining where pension funds administrations can invest in money. And what needs to be said here, and what is not said, is that their exposure in some investments of HANFA controls constantly and HANFA is an independent regulator that at some point when they intend to or threaten to overrun certain investments, certain areas, HANFA reacts at that time. And they're just facts. Therefore, this financial market in the Republic of Croatia did not exist. When it developed, it exploded there in 2007. ... INA... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HT,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] two major Croatian companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe at that point it was a mistake to say, specifically in the case of INA, the pension funds didn't get any more significant inside. And since then... investors could have put in about 7 or 8% of the shares somewhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, around some of these companies. But we're where we are. What's being set up today is something that my colleague Lalovec has begun to do, so I'm going to expand it a little bit more. However, the key question is whether the Croatian financial market is working today, does it have depth? Here, put yourself in a situation where you now have some significant amount of money and when you go to the Zagreb Stock Exchange and if someone asked you, what would you invest in? That's what's key. So, at this point unfortunately, that financial market in the Republic of Croatia is not working. And that is what automatically guides us and probably the minister is thinking about when it comes to this pension reform that the possibility of investing increased into something else simply legally needs to be made possible. Because the logical thing is that every Croat, every parliamentary representative, every minister is happy to see that every new issue of bonds offers a lower interest rate. So that says a lot of things. One is one general world movement and historically low interest rates. However, that indicates something. The fact that the Republic of Croatia has made certain shifts and investors are simply no longer looking for a lot of risks and investing their money in the Republic of Croatia at much lower interest rates. And when you look at a little fund-raiser, when you play a little bit with these tables, then you'll see that in years when the basic amount of the fund was much smaller than today, the annual contributions were much higher. And they were much bigger because the state bond yield was 5, 6,5 percent, and now it's in the latest editions below 3%. And if we tell someone that they have to invest 60%, then we're basically forcing him to, if it was the last edition of a state bond with a $2.75 or whatever it was, we're automatically telling them, you can't make more than that 2.75%. So we simply need to be aware of these facts. And why am I saying all this? Because mandatory pension funds can, on two basiss, be and will certainly be, but this other one depends on us, can also be a tool for discharging the expenditure side of the budget. On the one hand, after 2025 there will be significant pension payments from the II pillar of pension. All that will be paid out of the second pillar of pension will not be paid out of the budget. Therefore, that item on the expenditure side of the budget as regards pension costs will start to decrease. So I'm saying, when we talk about this topic, we have to look at it dynamically, in the long term, not statistically. Because I know it's very hard to watch 2025 without saying 2030. However, this is a process that simply one arithmetic sequence, a law of large numbers that, if a mistake is made, can do great harm, if a mistake is not made, can make a great deal of use. And when we talk about this subject, then we have to think about it that way, and that other kind of discharge of the spending side of the state budget, that's a series of projects that the state has. Is it a public, private partnership, is it something else? Therefore, simply the state of certain public facilities must do so because without it providing certain public services will not be at a certain level with which all of us as citizens can be satisfied. Now, if this is done through a public private partnership in some other way, and that's where they find interest, I'm just saying, I'm talking about interests, not love, mandatory pension funds, that's how you relieve the long-term spending side of the budget. So your macroeconomic indicators are much better and much nicer. But if you're watching, we've given it so much, paid the interest so much, and you're not looking that in 10 or 15 years, the expenditure in the budget is going to be o-ho-ho smaller, and then we're on the wrong track. Now, what I just have to say and I don't think that at the HDZ Club we'd be consistent, we wouldn't be correct if we didn't say two things. One is the responsibility of the administration and another is what unfortunately exists in public as some kind of doubt, which is that the business banks owned by these mandatory pension funds may have been too present around some investments in the past. It's just facts we can't escape from. Because some things have coincided, and because what I think should be in the future is in another way control, composition and structure of the supervisory board of these mandatory pension funds, one greater freedom and responsibility of the management of compulsory pension funds at purely professional level. Therefore, investment in projects that, according to expert assessments and evaluations, will bring the best contributions. Because I'm saying, unfortunately, and that may be the biggest problem when we talk about mandatory pension funds today, something my colleague Lalovac mentioned there, that certain investments were linked to companies where mothers banks were too exposed, could no longer get inside and those investments were entered by mandatory pension funds. It's something that just can't happen. And that should be said clearly here in this assembly because if we don't say it here, no one else has a chance to say it anywhere else. Another thing, energy. So, definitely that at this point the complete financial world has literally gone mad for investment in the energy sector. Whether compulsory pension funds in the Republic of Croatia will play a more significant role in the investments in energy that are being prepared for both HEP and some others, it depends on you. But definitely everybody invests in it. You didn't invest too much in that sector. I know investment in tourism seems quite attractive. However, tourism is a low-accumulated branch and the question is, the second thing is to buy a bad project and raise it in such a way to earn it. But given that you will have over 6 billion payments per year in the second pillar of pension and that you will have contributions with the basis of some other things, and you have no expenses, the question is, how long will it take for you to change this ratio of investment in bonds in the Republic of Croatia to have room for investment. And I've seen some changes and your wishes about amending the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, and I think you should think clearly and think about how to open the door to new, better quality and better investments so that these money can be better placed in the long term. Because I repeat, look how many of us are in the assembly today. If we're going to technically discuss this report, then we have nothing to discuss. That's all the stuff that's done. They happened. So, you've been paid so much and so much money, you've made so much and so much money on some investments, and your balance is so big and so big, you've taken your fee so much and so much, the HANFA has taken its own and it's all clean. And nothing can change here. And I think that these numbers that you gave us here today first, I think all reports should be methodologically the same thing, exactly identical. From the site, the table and everything for the simple reason that we, and above all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, can combine the quality of your work. 'Cause look, if I get a balance in one report, I get some financial report, I get something else in the other, I have to work fat, I have to work hard to compare your indicators. And it's good, this year this material and it should be commended, the summary that was made for all four mandatory pension funds is excellent. But from the debate, you've concluded that next year you're going to have to offer us some other information because we simply won't be satisfied because next year we have no intention of saying the same thing. We simply want new information, and this new information will serve us that, first of all, the Government, and also the parliamentary representatives of the evaluation and the assessment of whether it is necessary to change the legislation. Because your report is going to make us think about whether we should maybe change this article 127 in some other direction because if we don't get enough data through your report, then neither the minister nor the ministry, nor anyone in the House will fall into the minds of proposing such a thing. So, we can talk about whatever we want now. We have a fund that has, at the end of this year will have a billion, in fact 100 billion kunas of property, we unfortunately have a situation in the economy such that the question of what and how much money can be invested, we are fortunate that the state is in debt with all the lower and lower interest rates, it's an accident by the funds because you lost safe and relatively high incomes because look, your income on this B mandatory pension fund last year was what? Somewhere 3.06%, that's relatively small. And take you to let inflation happen somewhere around 2%, what's the real contribution? So these are all things that must simply be thought and thought about because I repeat, the Croatian financial market is what it is. At this point, apart from two, three major Croatian companies, which I sincerely hope will not go to the IPO, we have nothing more important to offer on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, we have nothing more important where you would invest money and earn something. These are facts and we can't escape from it, but then this article 127, we have to think differently, and then the responsibility of the administration is greater, and then your connection with your founders must be as small as possible, you can't be their patch, with all due respect, but that is, unfortunately, the perception in the public is created. If certain investment by compulsory pension funds had been made in companies where the commercial banks were extremely exposed and that would have been patched up, unfortunately, some of these investments have also proved to be bad. And to end with this, the Croatian Democratic Community club, along with these comments, proposals and suggestions, will support this report, and I repeat, it is unfortunate that the assembly is empty, and we are discussing 100 billion Croatian citizens' assets and you are practically when we eliminate commercial banks of people with the largest financial power in this country and therefore I think that we should treat this report as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86929	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86930	Thank you very much. Well, I'm glad that we have a report in the Assembly since 2014 when we've been thinking about how to bring funds closer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then there's only one solution that's been imposed, that's Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and that's the only place where we can discuss how funds work and what are the results of the funds themselves. What is good in this report is that these reports go in the direction that we have drawn, that they are not only financial, so a set of figures, but that there are reports that, what fellow Shucker said, will serve us to see which direction a system of mandatory and voluntary pension funds should be developed itself. The fact is that in Croatia we have too few citizens who are saving in voluntary pension funds, that it is something that should be promoted and especially now in light of the announcements of wage increases, it is simply obvious that a certain step should be made in this area. I see that it is announced from the government quietly that the employment contribution will be abolished and that from 1.7% and that this contribution will then be left to employers as if it would make it easier for employers to operate because they will be burdened with pay less. However, I think that one responsible government should think about some other directions, which is the direction that we long ago plotted that the separation to another pension column should be bigger than it is and there is a crime of HDZ at the time when the situation was good and the situation was favourable and economical, so in the middle there from 2000 to 2003 until the crisis in 2008 when the isolation was to be raised in II. Retirement column. Because as you know from the pension reform separation in II. The pension rate by 2010 was to be 10%. We stayed at 5% and that's what's going to be problematic all the time in the work when we're talking about how much our fellow citizens can get pensions from II. Retirement pillar. Looking at the structure of the investment of pension funds, it is in fact the result of legal and market constraints, which is very clear, is not due to the desire of pension funds and is precisely investing in those stocks, but is the consequence of the factors set. The truth is that they are relatively little, what I asked in my replica, is that they have relatively little invested in portfolio A, which is a more risky fund, but it's not just their problem, it's also the attitude of our fellow citizens who don't really want to invest in these more risky ones, although looking at the risk in that portfolio A, it's far from that risk we have in other funds. The fact is that this high volatility carried by foreign capital markets is not generally acceptable to our citizens. It is obvious that members want more conservative investment, but what remains on everyone and at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, but also on the funds, to direct citizens into the ability to invest and to care about which fund they will have their pension funds in, and I hope that one of the pension fund members will answer this question how many members have changed pension funds in the past, so when they decided to enter another fund from one fund because this is what was allowed by the 2014 law. Also, since the start of the pension reform, there have been restrictions on the market and the development of the capital market, that policy has not made a step forward, and I agree with Mr. Shuker, it has not made a step forward to offer more state portfolio companies in which pension funds could invest, because what I see as pension funds is that the pension fund invests in a single company, the company restructures and then sells it on the capital market for a higher price than it has bought. And that's the role of funds that are all over the world, obviously in Croatia we didn't exactly have such examples, we can only say that INA and HT would be some examples of investment in funds as far as I hear there is now Petrochemy and others, but it is clear that politics must offer funds the opportunity to invest in state-owned companies and, on the other hand, have to offer them and allow Croatia to have greater economic growth. This growth we now have is not enough to open investments and that funds can invest in more significant investment programmes. What I would also point out is that the problem that remains and still remains, which is that there remains a 27% problem and remains the pension supplement problem, that the Government has not solved it, is not only the Government, but it is a problem for all citizens, but the problem is also the funds, because that's why we have a negative public perception of the success of the funds because if you say you have a pension from I and II. the pension column and that it will be smaller to you because you do not have an allowance in the I pension column is something that should be concerned about one responsible government. Obviously, no one cares because it's not about the large number of citizens, but what's important is that this problem is solved as soon as possible, we've lost almost two years, now we've got women who are going to retire early, and it's absolutely unacceptable that someone who was born on 31.12.'61. and someone who was born 1.1.1962, so one day of difference, they have the same job, for the same internship have 700 kuna permanent difference in pension, and that's something that should be concerned about one government, regardless of what kind of pensions we're going to have from I. and II. Retirement pillar. The European Commission has made it clear to the Government, I was at that presentation, the minister listened and went further, I think it was smarter for everyone and that you stayed until the end, but the European Commission has made it very clear that the Croatian pension system is sustainable, so it is sustainable financially because it will eventually reduce the separation of gross domestic products from 10% will fall to 7%, but the consequence will be that we will not have adequate pensions, that is, by the time you teach the donkey to starve, after 40 days he will die. And that's something that the government should absolutely respect when sending its reform programme. Because people from the European Commission couldn't answer a very simple question, why are you doing what you're doing? Why do you penalize people who go into early retirement more than now and create cases, so people who will be below the poverty line, what do you do that for? Neither the Government nor the European Commission has answered this very simple question, the financial system is sustainable, but pensions will not be adequate and this should be concerned by every normal citizen and every normal government. The government doesn't have an answer at this point, and one of the answers is II. The pension column, one of the answers is voluntary retirement insurance, are all the things that need to be taken together to then have adequate pensions in the future. It is clear that the pension system should continue, but what is quite certain is that problems in the I. pension column which are also large, are not so small and that for these problems in the I. pension column, the Government is pushing its head into the sand and as it thinks that these problems will solve themselves, or that the pensioners will die, and then the problems with them will disappear, but unfortunately or fortunately not so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86931	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for this debate. We have a replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86932	Dear fellow Mrsic, I think it's from the separation rate in II. The pension column is a far more important solution, i.e. the answer to the previous question. If we know that we are holding the lowest pension at the level of almost 95% of the average pension, of course I am talking about the value of the pension for the year of the internship, not the absolute amounts, the amounts of pensions. We need to know what level of pension we're defending from the two-stage system. And that's why it's important as the previous question of what we're going to do with that 27%. And the second line I wanted to say, by amending Article 127, you were then a minister, we allowed investment in real estate. I would pray about what obstacles there are or what in this area, what problems would I ask the promoters to report to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86933	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86934	Thank you very much. What I agree with you is that at this point the government hasn't come up with any data that the pension level is defending, it's 80, 70, 60, 90, 95, 100. So Minister Pavic doesn't say a word about it, I don't know if he understands or doesn't understand it, but you should clearly tell the citizens we're defending this and that pension level from I and II. A retirement stake, and that's why we need a pension allowance of that much and so much. It would be simplest if everyone got 27%, that's financial expenditure for the state, but that's what the pensioners and our citizens deserve, so I guess Croatians, Croatian citizens deserve a peaceful and dignified age, and the state also serves that, one of the foundations of the social state, is that we have a certain age. So let's not just talk about financial sustainability, we're talking about the adequateness of pensions so that at the age of not everyone is poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86935	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrsic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86936	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state, the representatives of the funds. Says Mr. Shuker here we're discussing 100 billion kuna. That's in principle true. We're actually discussing 130 billion kuna here. Once again, it is necessary to include interest on the debt due to which the state has committed to be able to pay pensions as well as pension funds. It would be nice if we could discuss only the payments made by these 5%, but we know that the cost was higher, both for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian state. That's what the problem is. So it's not 100 billion, it's 130 billion, and it's quite clear that they're offering you, that so-called. The contributions of pension funds cannot cover that difference. That's what we talk about all the time. The peace funds will soon be in the hands of the entire Croatian budget in a few years. The entire Croatian budget we have left in the hands of banks with all the assets they already have, that's about 400 billion kuna. Well, that's about the same as when we left our Budapest finances in the 19th century or still in the 20th century Belgrade. These funds aren't Croatian. These are foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia owned by these funds, and a state that has no control over its finances cannot be called a state. It is like a plant in a dry area that depends on whether someone is watering it or not to survive. She doesn't have her own way of survival. They're your retirement societies. We have no control over them. Why can't pensioners sit on boards? Why, if it's their money? What are we talking about here? It's amazing to me that I'm listening here to both power and so on. the opposition that everyone agrees that this harmful reform must continue and that people are changing attitudes like coats. Mr. Shuker used to speak differently and Mr. Hrelja used to speak differently, Mrssic did. Now they're singing another song. For what reason, they're the only ones who know. The second pension pillar would, therefore, be sustainable if some incredible conditions were met, if we increased employment, if GDP grew constantly, if I didn't know, there was strong supervision of banks, but there is no such thing. We've seen over the past 15 years that trends have been so completely different. It is therefore important to highlight the following. Citizens, I'm talking to citizens because it doesn't make sense to talk to MPs. They must understand that banks, or pension societies, have been deceived by the government and by the expensive PR. They were deceived by the entire Croatian state. In the future you will have, therefore, less citizens, less pensions, of course parliamentary representatives will not because if someone has a salary greater than 12,000 kuna, it is a wonderful miracle even to invest in a second pillar, but of course it is all premeditated. And those funds you've saved you won't be able to get in full. So that's another... Simplified, it's like that exchange they had, I don't know, Indians with the Spanish during America's discovery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I give you the mirror, and you give me the gold. Now, that's the same model for you. It's a model that then started in North America that's worth until today. I'll get you candy, you get me diamonds. That's pretty much it. You give the money to the banks, and then the bank will decide what it will give you, but the value won't give you safe. The funds in the second pillar, therefore, have become their own purpose. The only link in the chain that won while everyone else was in harm's way. For this reason, it is necessary to convert the second pillar from compulsory to voluntary. Anyone who wants to be there should be, and anyone who does not want to be, should be allowed to move to the first pillar just as possible to those born in 1961 and earlier. Payments in the second and third pillars should be made in the future only in Croatian banks and not in foreign banks. Says Mr. Shuker, in 2025, it's going to be a budget payment, so the budget. So in 2025, no one else in the Republic of Croatia will be except you, of course, and the HDZ presidency. You'll be the only one left here. Then who are you going to pay for anything? So do you read the studies not of mine? Let you do what Branimir the Bunjac says. Serious scientific studies, you will not believe, come all the way from the Croatian Catholic University. At least you should respect it, you're supposed to be a Christian party. That in the next five years, 500 thousand working citizens leave the Republic of Croatia. Who's going to pay you in those pillars of yours? Who's paying? Maybe those workers who get paid on their hands are paying the same thing in the second column? What did he pay in the second column? Why don't you fight the gray economy? Why don't you fight corruption? In 10 years, corruption in the Republic of Croatia has taken 230 billion kuna. Who robbed that money? It's empty, Parliament. Who took it? Go ahead. He's living the wall, I'm sure. Here, now the Temple will report to the Living Wall, yes, they took it or perhaps you who were in power. You've turned this country into a desert, this Parliament, your government, you've destroyed it. And now you're telling fairy tales about how people are gonna have, I don't know anything from the second pillar, how they're gonna have. What's it going to be, 300, 400 kuna? They'll have 300 bucks just like in Chile where they introduced that second pillar and even started paying out of it. You can live with 1,500 kunas. Let's live, I'll give you 1,500 kuna, and you'll live until 18.7. What are you gonna save on, on food, on directs, on the tram? You'll walk on foot. What will you tell your wife, your children, your grandchildren. What are we talking about? What does Minister Pavić offer us? Just new crazy, working until 67, so let him work, he can work up to 167 because he's not doing anything, he's sitting down. And how is a construction worker, I don't know, going to do some physical work until he's 67? To get a hump on his back. Hire the pensioners. Great measure, genius. Increase the detachment by the second column from 5 to 10%. Why not at 110% right now? Just make it bigger, come on, we didn't give it much. How much are we giving? 27% of the salary, 25% for VAT, so pay the cut, pay the fees, pay the excise fees, for gas, I don't know about sugar, for coffee, for whatever, just pay. Re-issuing 100 kuna pay documents leaves us with 10 kuna. Just fine with our salaries, workers can survive for 3 days, 4 a month and then dolls. This is the state of Croatia where you brought us, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, disaster. What are you even talking about here? Why don't you solve the justice issue? Why don't you solve the question of the contest? Why can't people get a job based on their diplomas? Based on my knowledge, based on my own, why can I only get a job based on a party card? Look at the structure of HPE employees and in many other public companies, these are private HNS fronts and I don't know your so-called. coalition partners and basically the most ordinary puppets and satellites. Why don't you settle the matter of work disputes, how long do work disputes last? You think you're gonna stop the eviction, with what, the second pillar? Turn around. Let's go now, here's when the Parliament ends up at the bus station so you can see the buses leaving Croatia so you can see the real situation and you just keep supporting the second pillar. In short, the Living Wall is for the lifting of the obligations of the second pension pillar and for serious pension reform and in this regard we have submitted to the parliamentary procedure of two draft laws that will soon be on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86937	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86938	My colleague Bunjac, I said what I was saying in 2009 but then of all these geniuses who talk like that today against the second pillar of retirement I didn't get support. So it's just a fact. And the other thing is, I've been the most cheerful people in my life who've been throwing themselves away for billions. So you say 130 billion, out of this 91 billion that last year was pension funds, the second pillar of pension, 61 billion, 62 billion is your payment and 30 billion is your contribution to those funds. But also after there in 2025, the pension expenditure in the budget will fall. So you can say whatever you want but it's just long-term projections and you always have to think about what's going to happen in the long term. But again, you forget that a billion is a big number and don't throw yourself away because you fool Croatian citizens so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86939	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86940	Thank you very much. Well, your exposure, Mr. Shucker, reminds me of some priest's exposure. So it doesn't matter what's wrong with you now, but you know when you die, you'll go to heaven. What Croatian citizens want to know about 2025, what are you psychics and you know what's going to happen in 2025? Now go outside to the man who digs through the trash and say, you know, it'll be 2025. So what does he care, so he'll be dead by then from hunger? Come on, citizens want to get rid of their problems now if there's a chance. You keep promising for 7, that's what you said and in 2002 it'll be fine, now in 2010, it'll be 2020, 2020, it'll be 2030. You keep promising some better future that isn't. How long does this transition take? We've been in transition for 28 years, so how long do we have to be in transition until Judgment Day? Well, then. Why did Poland complete the transition? Why did Albania complete the transition? They had ten times as many communist dictators as we had in Croatia. Well, the transition is over, and we don't have that transition to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86941	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjec, for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86942	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to answer, replicate, but first I was talking about II. I've never changed my mind, but I'd like you to apologize to the Croatian citizens here now and apologize for calling for people not to be vaccinated. Now, why don't you change your mind and tell the citizens that that's something you've made a mistake in? And don't answer to me now that it's because the Immunological Institute disappeared, which wasn't vaccines. Mr. Bunjac, there was a vaccine, it would be without and with the Immunological Institute. It's a shame for the immune institution to disappear, but I certainly believe that I've called the gentleman, he, me, Mr. Bunzac accused me of not telling the truth, I'm telling him now [[Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Mrsic!]] I'm calling now. [[Upadica Brkić: Dear colleague Mrsic!]] to apologize to the citizens [[Intruder Brkić: We're not talking, just a little please.]] that he called for citizens not to be vaccinated against measles. [[Intruding Brkic: Just a little please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86943	I give you a warning because you have abused the Institute of Replications. Because you were talking about a subject that wasn't the subject of our debate. [[Intruding Mrssic: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Bunjac, there's nothing to replicate or answer because he didn't talk about the subject at all. Mr. Bunjac, I said there's nothing to answer because the gentleman wasn't talking about [[Intruder Bunjac: Thank you very much, so here I would just take a short...]] He wasn't talking about the subject, so you can replicate, let's see if your answer will be about the topic or the vaccination, please. [[How, so I have the right to replicate...]] Here or on the subject, not the vaccination.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86944	So I would just like to say briefly that I would like representative Mrsic to invest half of the energy he is investing in the fight against the opposition in the fight against the ruling majority. Here's only half that energy. He fights so much against his own party and opposition parties, that only a little bit of that energy is invested in the fight against this government, I'm sure the government would have problems because of it, but he can't, it's the most important thing for the neighbor to die a cow, it's the classic Croatian, jealousy, and now every time he comes he doesn't know what to say, and then as a parrot repeats, as if I had something to do with him being a doctor so I don't know, he wants to talk about it all the time. Thank you very much for warning him and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86945	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. We have the next line, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86946	Dear counterpart Bunjac, you are very nice to me but you must tell me when you talk about changing attitudes, which was your attitude in 1999 when pension reform was adopted in the Republic of Croatia since you were 27 years old, and I, as a union activist, don't remember seeing you barricades against the introduction of II. It's a pillar, but you've calmly defined yourself as one of the mandatory pension funds offered. Secondly, yes, I will always say that the Living Wall has the wrong views as long as your colleague Pernar does not tell Croatian pensioners about whom he said he would take away their right to vote because he considers them subject to manipulation because they do not know, they do not know how to handle electronic media.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86947	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86948	Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja, for knowing what I did in '99, or else I studied, I didn't know that students could commit to these retirement pillars, but I want to tell you that what you were changing attitudes, is what the retirement unions think, they wrote a very nice article bearing the title of Hrelja, a representative with two opinions. So I quote the pensioners and if they think so of you and that's what I know, just those unions that organised the protests last year if I'm not mistaken, who were very mass around Croatia, if they have such opinions, then forgive me if I'm wrong, I just called and the opinion of those like you allegedly represent, so I don't understand why you support small pensions and you have the name of pensioners on behalf of the party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86949	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague, Bunjc. I'm setting a break by 19.45. It's 7:30. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 19.45 HOURS]] Following the debate, the esteemed colleague, Professor Ivan Lovrinović, will you come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of pension funds. What about this subject, your report that we're discussing today? Before that, I will say several issues and the first is that Croatia is the only country in the EU that has another II. pension column because today we are discussing the reports of compulsory pension funds and the majority of Croatian citizens had to choose one of the 4 mandatory pension funds and I remind you when the World Bank's reform is designed to be imposed on Croatia, there was no freedom of choice, you could only choose which fund, I., II., III. Or IV, but you couldn't refuse not to in either. Therefore, it was carried out undemocratically and according to the debates, dear citizens who follow and MPs who are being put on one side or the other, who protect this II. The pension column, then you simply see how many political structures, how much the protectors in the Parliament meant here from the draft, since the launch of this pension reform, were the protectors of this one failed project that simply has no perspective. And I repeat, Croatia is the only country in the EU that has II. Retirement column. You see, in their report for 2, 3 years, the pension fund management company, they find that demographic movements in Croatia are getting worse, the less active population is getting, and now there is an incredible thesis that, despite the big drain, this is why pension savings in II. The pillar is gaining more and more importance for the stability and long-term sustainability of the overall pension system, this was a quote. But look, gentlemen, you think that pension reform and II will. The column solves the problem resulting from negative demographic movements. At the same time, you invest 72% of your assets in government bonds, thus reducing the number of people to be paid through taxes, contributing to the Croatian state's budget to pay those bonds. Well, it's that man doesn't believe. So who's going to pay you those government bonds when people move out, in this large amount, they've already moved out? So this is no longer a question of science, this is a matter of common sense, you don't have to have, you can have a primary school to realize that it's a logical problem and that it's an impossible variant. You each year invest an additional 4 billion kuna in new government bonds, the state is additionally in debt and people are getting less and less to pay off those bonds, ma bravo, bravo. It's just amazing how much you insist on such an antiquity, I just can't believe that someone can believe it. Now let's move on to another thing. The Croatian Government, or the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with HZMO, asked the European Commission to help with the resolution, to put it on its feet II. The pension column and the competition is scheduled this year and now the public tender is called and is requested, be careful about the European Commission to help solve this problem and therefore, the project holder of the European Commission, not the Croatian institutions, Ministry, HZMO etc., means in English, so while you wait to be assisted by foreign advisers, sufleurs, so don't you know what to do, so you see that we are demographically falling apart and you expect that II. The pension column is increasing. And to make the matter even more ridiculous, the current minister of labour in charge of the pension system, including this government, are proposing to increase isolation in II. Retirement column. Well, look, if I could. The pension column and you invest in the government bonds of another country outside Croatia, I would say and be here and strongly advocate it, but you are investing in the country's government bonds which have a demographic outflow and which we will not be able to repay, so there will be no such tax revenues to amortise the bonds you were talking about. 72% of pension funds' assets are in bonds. Your property is about $92 billion and 66 billion is in government bonds, so about 72%. So we have a big problem with that whole story. What is it really supposed to do? What do you need to do? The only one who certainly makes money in this whole story and to start from the beginning means this property of these government bonds that have been broadcast, you've been shopping, you've been buying, of course because it's a model, it's been paid somewhere around 24, 25 billion interest since the drafts so far. The pension fund management companies from the drafts so far have charged about 7 billion kunas of various fees and even entry fees, be careful, an entry fee for what you must be, I've never heard of anyone having to charge. So, we have a complete, we have to announce and indeed also tell the public, the party We change Croatia will strongly advocate that citizens have the right already free to decide that they do not want to be in II. the pension pole because he's inoperable. Why? The more property increases in II. pension pillar, growing Croatian public debt. 72% of your assets are nothing more than RH debt. Your property is a direct debt. So that's what we have to deal with. Pension fund management companies and pension funds will have the same assets as State budget revenues for 5 years. So this is a matter of logic and this cannot survive. That is why the party Change Croatia advocates that this system is transformed urgently and I hope that next year we should not discuss it at all because we are the last EU country to have II. A pension column, to give citizens the right to free decisions to give their II money. The pension pillar is transferred to its account in the I. Retirement column, to join with existing funds and those who do not want to, may be transferred, may have the opportunity to transfer their money to the current III. a pension column that would become a practically voluntary retirement column in the new model. So we would have pillar I as intergenerational solidarity and II. a voluntary capitalised savings column, with that in II. The pillar needs to be expanded, liberalised, this new II. A post voluntary to be able to invest much more abroad but would not be guaranteed by the state. The I. Retirement Pillar would be guaranteed by the State. This is the model and solution of the party We change Croatia, our expert team and we have been communicating with the public for a long time, and we will advocate, and eventually it will have to come, as soon as possible, the better. The only ones who certainly make money in this entire pension reform, as it used to be called, is pension fund management companies that are all 4 in the hands of foreign banks. I told you that they have charged for the founding so far about 7 billion kuna and therefore, their earnings are real, that's cash, this remains the dominant debt that we said 72% in the property. In this context, this reform is the property of the World Bank. I call upon the citizens to take over our future, our destiny because this is destabilisation, a strong destabilisation of the pension system, a bid for bigger payments in II. The pension pillar, a pledge to continue to survive, only in Croatia, throughout the EU, means simply further destabilising the pension system due to demographic drains, due to low GDP growth rates and others. So, we definitely need to clear up with this problem, we need to understand that we are not the only ones who are the smartest in the EU, everyone has left II. The pension column, it's simple, I'll be that way, forgive me for the expression of one prank that only Croatia has bought, and that's how much it holds. In that sense, what am I saying? All of us today, I'm lucky I'm '60. I had no obligation to pay, all of you who pay in II. The pension column, recent calculations showed that those to whom payment started, that they were getting less than they had stayed in the I. pension column and now they're blowing up shit and panic to increase them by 27%, thus everything says that we have to definitely reform this existing system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86952	Thank you, dear colleague Lovrinović. The next debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj, is not present. Next debate, respected colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86953	Dear Vice President, respected ministry gentlemen and mandatory pension funds, respected colleagues and colleagues. So I'll just point out that although a lot of things have already been said that in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, you are all obliged to act and you have acted precisely because when you see it in the structure of investments then you can actually see how the funds are distributed between ABC funds, so that whether you should have had it in one way or another is immaterially discussed at this point because according to that, we are obliged to change the law. I'll just point out that a total of a million and 844 articles that are members of bonds are actually a liability of pension funds, and in these 16 years, it's significant that the total assets were greatly increased, so when we look at 2016, it was about 84 billion and now it's over 91, almost 92 billion kuna of property. That's a significant increase of over 9%. I'm just going to make one example here, for example. Switzerland has a very similar model and I want to say every government in every country regardless of political colors is obliged and always has to think long-term and work, and this is something my colleague Schuker mentioned, so it is a dynamic process that must be seen long-term and cannot be static for our time and our pensions alone but something that will concern all future generations, our children, etc. Therefore, nothing has been defined forever. And he can always do better. At that moment, as the predecessors said, it was a model that offered some solutions and gave some choices but does not mean that it will not be modified for the better. So here's an example of Switzerland when we see that it was established in '48. Mandatory pension system, state pensions and '85. It has also declared that it is necessary for the Commission to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Retiremental pillar, it has changed 10 laws so far to make their pension system sustainable, which means by analogizing it, I say nothing is the Holy Scriptures that can't be changed for the better, and it's also up to us to think about how our system can create and make it better. Their example is that they have projected that from VAT that will increase by 0.3% in 2021 will serve a part of the pensions that are currently at 8% VAT rate, there will be 8.3%, so I'm talking about how, using all the positive experiences, we can project some good and implement some good things in our system. It is true that according to the applicable law, those of '62 will. They come true, which are the year of '62. They're making a smaller pension by 27%, but we have to say that the total supplement costs about 2 billion kuna a year. So there must be a solution if you want to, and you have to think about not having a lasting reduction in all future generations of pensions, then it's something that you need to think very carefully about in order for these pensions to be as high-quality as possible. If we know that our employee-retired ratio is one in one piece of 113 at this point that can be read on the sites of HZMO, then we can see that in the long term this and such a system cannot be sustainable unless we really increase that employment ratio compared to the pensioners. The previous discussions discussed how much pensions are now compared to the average salary, so what we can read now is also read, and it is constantly that the average pension is now for those who have earned an old pension, so at 40 years and above, their average pension is 3563.90 kuna or 57% of the average salary. Now, the average salary mentioned here is 6253 kuna, so if we want to achieve some ratio to be some reference percentage, whether it will be 70 or give God more percent, sure that it is trying and this relative amount is increasing compared to a previous period. What we need to say is that in relation to our budget and the contributions that are now being paid, we are constantly missing over 15 billion kuna, so some 23 billion is the payment of total contributions, and about 38 is the expenditure on pensions. So this is something that is constantly lacking and when, we must take into account and that there are 4 billion pensions coming from outside for those pensioners who have made pensions in other countries of Europe, and so of the 15 countries that, from which they actually come, the funds for paying off foreign pensions is about 4 billion. What I would like to stress in this regard is that, let's just say from Germany, we have pensions for 91 000 pensioners and the average amount of pension for that pensioner who made this happen in Germany is 2476 kuna per month. So it's not some terrible amount that pensions have been made in these countries, and the biggest pensions are actually from Switzerland, but there are far fewer pensioners, some 5100 and their pension amount is 6800 kuna per month. So when we look at how much these pensions are compared to our average, then here we can look at what that means. As far as the reports themselves are concerned, I think they are very high-quality, that certain standards are set in relation to 2016. What should be said is that in 2017 compared to 2016, total revenues have fallen somewhat, and that the NETO profit of compulsory pension funds is slightly higher than in 2016, so it can be said that it is well managed by the funds that you manage. What's important is to say that in the case of category B mandatory pension funds, it's actually over 95.5% of the total asset, while A is 0.64, or C 4.31, which is actually the ratios that say that these mandatory B categories are actually the largest and there's what I said at the beginning, very clearly what values you're obliged to invest in, and therefore we can't talk about it in a flat-rate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86954	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Next debate on behalf of club GLAS and HSU final word, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86955	Your Honor, Vice President. I will not welcome again our proposings and representatives of the ministry, but I must look back at two individual discussions and colleagues of Bunjc and colleagues of Lovrinovic. I mean, I don't like the debate in the Croatian Parliament when ad hominem is provoked and people are called, and then when you have to listen to the answers and when you have to listen to the proposals, it's even as if being in the Croatian Parliament is just the goal of your own promotion and telling the truth and fooling the people, it's very easy. I have to tell my colleague Bunjc that if he studied until 27 he deserved his title well because he was well-versed. I've had ten years of internships at the time, so I know, and I've studied with work, and I think I've accomplished a lot in my life. And secondly, if it's about correcting injustice and what Mr. Lovrinovic was saying to the new pensioners, so these born in '62. They continue to cry for 27%, that they are the first to have a two-stage pension, and those others have nothing to cry for because they have the option of choosing a more favourable right since 2000, and all based on the mini-reform we have implemented, regardless of what some economic experts considered a blow to the three-stage pension system. But because people were leaving us and every year that they were going to retire had a smaller pension, in 2007, we brought in so-called. Supplement law from 4 to 27%. Because otherwise today would be that pension without that allowance, our average pension would be about 33% already today. But the gentlemen don't appreciate it, as no one in Europe has pension funds, although few have compulsory pension funds, and many have pension funds and Austria and Germany and Slovenia and the Czech Republic and Poland, Italy, France, Norway, Slovakia, Spain, Croatia, Ireland, Finland, Sweden, UK, Switzerland, Iceland, the Netherlands and Denmark. Is that a little bit? What my colleague Peric was saying is a very interesting story, Switzerland has a mandatory second pillar, has no third pillar, has no incentive for the state to save because they have developed a pension rent through insurance, through life insurance, they are the predecessors of these life insurances in the world and all reassurances are practically in Switzerland. But my people, they have one mechanism when they force you to sign a mandatory second pension fund or pension fund, they don't call it the second pillar, so you don't have to save at a single rate in a mandatory pension fund. It's your choice, whether you're going to pay the state higher taxes or you're going to spend some of your taxes on your own savings. So it's one trick of motivation for citizens to save for their future, for their pension. So we're not familiar with these models. We've decided on this model, maybe it's not the happiest solution, but this is where people advocate it, let's take it down. So the Croatian Retired Union when they sat down with me and I told them that I didn't want to act in the Croatian Assembly and destroying hope for future generations that there would be nothing from the second pillar because they expect to save something they did for 20, 30 or 40 years that they would save something and that one plus another pension would be a third as tolerable, they accepted it. However, the head of the Retirement Union, whose honorary member I am, has a different opinion and imposes an opinion and breaks up the entire pension Corps and on the National Council for Retired Elderly, constantly firing the second pension column as if it were the greatest evil in Croatia. So that's the truth about it, but our colleagues don't want to hear it. I stand by what I said in the debate on behalf of the club, we will support these reports because we consider them correct and in the way that everything that was in the debate should be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86956	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja for this final word. On behalf of the government, the final word is respected by State Secretary Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86957	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. So I will also refer to the mandatory pension fund reports, but since the debate was very intense, I will refer, of course, to the pension system and to the pension reform. As you have seen from the attached materials, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept Reports on the work of mandatory pension funds of all four. In 2017, as we had the opportunity to hear the 16th year of work of pension funds in the Republic of Croatia, mandatory pension funds managed in 2017 with the assets of 91 billion and 900 million kuna, respectively, while on the day of 30.4.2018 the assets had already increased to 93.7 billion kuna, meaning in 4 months 1.7 billion kuna. So to return to 2017, since we are talking about reports from that year, 91.9 billion kuna is 26% of Croatia's GDP compared to the previous year, which is an increase of 9.5% and according to this indicator, Croatia is a leader among the transition states. In 16 years of work, pension funds have earned about 31 billion kuna to their members, so we are talking about contributions, and according to the OECD survey mentioned by Mr Buk, Croatian pension funds fall to the very top of real contributions made in European countries and have a better real average contribution than most OECD member states, as well as all others. The number of members of compulsory pension funds is growing, so in 2017 he was higher by 60 thousand and 103 members compared to '16. One year, the highest number of insurance companies in the B category is 95% of all members of the mandatory pension funds. In A category there are less than 6,000 members, it was one of the questions while in voluntary pension funds there are about 320 thousand members together in an open and closed place and of course there is a large space for developing still that system. And in this regard, the reference should also be made to the financial literacy that is relevant in any case for and independent selection of pension funds, which is important for members of pension funds to do just that and to raise awareness of the need to choose on their own, because if they do not, then we know for ourselves that the REGOS classify them in category B, which is why in category B 95% of the members of all mandatory pension funds. And then when we look at REGOS statistics, then we see that according to that data, as many as 98% of the members don't choose their pension fund on their own. This is why it is also due to the education and awareness raising of the UMFO, so the pension fund associations together with their partners and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, HANFA, HUP, HGK, Zagreb Stock Exchange, Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, etc., etc. It launched a financial literacy project last year, the project continues this year and will be presented to the Croatian public very soon. In addition, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions as well as the REGOS are working on digitising the selection process of the pension fund where it will now be possible to do so through the E-Citizen System and, in addition, as you know yourself, any newly employed future will be informed by written means, so as to inform the REGOS of the need for independent selection of the pension fund. We've had opportunities to hear that property on the personal accounts of members is growing due to both contributions and contributions. It is also important to highlight the fact that individual capitalised savings, or the second pillar of their functional maturity, achieves only after 35 to 40 years, which means that the first results will only be seen when people who have spent their entire working life in the second pillar begin to enter our pension. And, of course, assuming that the second pillar continues to develop and improve. We know that the second pillar was introduced in 2002, to this we add 35 to 40 years of internship, i.e. capitalisation, which means that its maturity, functional maturity, the second pillar will reach about 2037, between 2037 and 2042 when the period actually passes between 35 and 40 years. So you should give the second and third pillars a chance. And about the questions or notes that have been made here, unfortunately by members of MPs who are not presently present but we hope to follow that, so I have a need to refer to that part as well. So pensions in the Republic of Croatia are safe, still paid in time and so will be all the time. However, that there is a need to improve the pension system, we are all aware of this, and that is why this government and the Resent Ministry of Labour and the pension system are implementing and there is a pension reform under way with the aim of a comprehensive pension reform aimed at achieving the adequateness of pensions and with a view to the long-term sustainability of the pension system. The laws should enter into force in 1.1.2019, which is why the laws go into regular procedure in two readings, working groups are established, working groups are working according to the planned plan. Please don't disturb me, Mr. Gristle, if I can just move on. What is very important to mention is therefore the share of the average pension, the share of the average pension in the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, which Mrs Peric was already talking about. However, there is another better data and the following is that only 20% of the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia have 40 and more years of training and receive 70% of the pensions in the average salary of 4 thousand 350 kuna. And that's just one of the evidence that needs to stay on the labour market longer. So those who today in Croatia, on average, have 40 and more years of employment, their average, once again, average pension is 4350 kuna, which is in fact 70% of the average salary and proof that it is important to stay as far away from the labour market. As far as inheriting the second pillar's funds, this is all explained by my colleague Hrelja, as regards the spread of fear and panic that has gone from the gentleman who is now gone, I can only say to this, that it is not good to banish so many serious things and systems, it is not good to spread fear and panic especially among the most vulnerable groups of this society, which are pensioners should show great seriousness and dignity and dignity to these people and not act in a way that scares them and spreads panic among the pensioners. It is also mentioned here, mandatory pension funds which, according to the same agent, do what they want, but what's the fact is that HANFA is like a supervisory, or regulatory body, that their supervision is intense and that it goes so far that I've had the opportunity to hear that even for one press release should have the permission of HANFA, and let alone for much more serious things. So that's a good thing, but that's what you really need to remind yourself that there would be no such statements that are simply incorrect. It's mentioned here and the 27% supplement problem. The 27% supplement problem will be resolved within a full pension reform whose solutions will also be presented to the general Croatian public within 10 days. So far, I can only say where the problem has arisen, i.e. the assumption that we today have 17 people in Croatia who have a lower pension without those 27%. So, by 2003, people with a well-favoured job experience were secured only in the first pillar. However, 2014 and art. 92nd century, 2nd century. The law on mandatory pension funds for people with a ben internship was returned to the I and II pillar and then actually a presumption was created for the problem that we have with people with a benified work experience today. We are fully aware of this and we are solving it and we will solve the problem 27% within 10 days you will all be informed of it in what way. But you know for a fact that the whole procedure has to go through both working groups and all partners from employers, trade unions, etc., so I believe you'll be able to bear it for another 10 days. This government has solutions to all these problems. It should be noted next. So, what is retirement and what does it affect the amount of retirement? The peace is a right that comes from work, and I think we should constantly point that out. It's not a social category, and at the height of the pension from the I pillar, we know and all alone are primarily the most affected by the height of the salary, and then of course the length of the internship. In the second pillar or pension of the second pillar, the most affected are the contributions and contributions, i.e. the capitalisation time, and also related to the third voluntary pension column. There have also been mentioned some other laws that affect, of course, the business of compulsory pension funds. What you all respected MPs and MPs know is that before the final reading of the Mandatory Pension Funds Act, which will be very soon at the debate and which is one of the newspapers, which is exactly the acquisition of shares in another pension society, regardless of whether it is a company managed by compulsory or voluntary pension funds, and whether this company is based in the Republic of Croatia, another EU member or third country, which will in fact enable Croatian pension funds to expand and strengthen their positions. But these are laws that are just waiting for us, and they really have something to do with the functioning of mandatory pension funds. We are also waiting for the Voluntary Law as part of the pension reform to reopen the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, so there are many solutions, and there are many suggestions for all the challenges we face today and which are mentioned here. Mr. Lovrinović spoke and mentioned technical assistance. Technical assistance that is fully benign and welcome, technical assistance from the European Commission's structural reform programme. It is therefore that in 2017, the Republic of Croatia has been granted technical assistance for structural reform of the pension system, which we consider to be commendable. It is a thorough analysis of the mandatory pension system of the second pension pillar. The preliminary data will come in around 5.7. The concrete or final recommendation report will be completed by September 2018. All of this will be included in the European semester, so that we do not see this part as any problem as was said here today, but rather commendable, which fits into the broader context of pension reform, or the work of the Ministry of Labour and only a little. If I forgot something, I hope I didn't, so if I did, there'd be a replica. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86958	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Majdi Buric. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86959	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, don't ever say that pensions are not a social category. Don't ever say that. Pensions are a social category, pensions are those that ensure the social security of citizens and we work and separate into a pension system so that they can enjoy a decent pension at age. And don't ever do that again from this constituency booth that they're not a social category. They are because the state then also provides through pensions for those who have small pensions, to make up for the difference that allows them to have as much a decent pension as possible. As for the benefited internship, the benefited internship was transferred to the first pillar because they were too short in the second pillar and it was logical that they couldn't have enough time to activate so much funds. And what you said, half-exposure, will be, now that we're almost there, you've only had one meeting, and I'm asking you when you're going to change the Labour Act because you announced that you're going to change the Labour Act, and you're not talking about it. You had a meeting with your social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86960	Thank you, dear fellow Mrsic. Answer, Secretary of State Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86961	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mrs., I looked forward to your question. So, I said the next thing you know, you should say what a pension is. Mirovina is a right that comes out of work and needs to be kept in mind because raising awareness that pension is the right that comes out of work. Your claims are incorrect that we met once because working groups meet every day, depending on the type of working group, really every day and a half of a few working groups within one day, so I think here's what I think if you need any information, we're here, anyway. But it's not so good to be so casual to evaluate and make such statements when it really doesn't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86962	I thank the respected secretary of state Majdi Buric. We have another replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86963	Dear Secretary of State, first of all, I'll say what I agree with you. You don't have to dramatize and practically scare the pensioners here because after all, it doesn't mean anything to the current pensioners. This means for the current workers of the future pensioners who will only exercise the right to retire. But I'm surprised you're listening very carefully, and I'm surprised that you missed one controversial claim by Mr. Lovrinovic, who said that he suggested making a mandatory pension column and that there was no guarantee of the state. I mean, look, when a pension fund has a government guarantee that you're going to make a bigger guarantee when it has a government bond, which guarantee do you want more? If the state doesn't fail, it'll be a safe retirement. So what he suggested is quite a controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86964	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Secretary of State Buric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86965	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. So pension reform also applies to future pensioners, but also to current pensioners. As Minister Pavic pointed out, it is an expansion of the retirement circle that will have the opportunity to receive a pension and work. This is one of the measures concerning the current pensioners, all other things you will hear during the presentation of a comprehensive pension reform within ten days. And as for Mr. Lovrinović's statement, with all due respect to the professor, however, what you correct me if I'm wrong, what we had the opportunity to hear from his students is that he is the professor in charge of lectures where licenses are obtained so that people professionals can be working in pension funds right now. And on the other hand, we hear a lot of destructive ideas about another pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86966	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. On behalf of the rapporteur, the final word, Mr Damir Grbavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86967	Honorable gentlemen of Parliament. On the one hand, it's a little difficult, and on the other hand it's inspiring to speak after such an inspired and competent presentation of Mrs. Buric, she even covered up some of the things I wanted to say, so I'll add to shorten this presentation of her last here and late age comes and comes. I've only set myself up some tips about what we heard tonight in the debate, which I disagree with more or less, so it's not exactly structured and complex in order of importance. But there's one thing that's very good coming up like this, and that's the fact that it's mandatory retirement savings, which is the second pillar, whether or not the second pillar is savings. Yes, an absolute second pension column is a savings and it is a savings that is exclusively intended for pensions. The other thing and the law are defined and it is practically so and it is seen from the succession, the second pension column is the property of members and members when they look at their own reports or when they are informed about the situation in their accounts of compulsory pension funds they are actually interested in their own property. When we talk about the pension funds here, we hear they don't exist. There is an independent institution that is not accidentally established by law by the Croatian Parliament, and it is called the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency and the data and contributions of pension funds you can easily and easily see not in our reports, you can also see in our reports, of course, but also in reports and independent institutions. and the contributions of Croatian pension funds, real contributions were 3.8% since the start of work. I'm only talking about category B that has enough history to be significant and representative. We have very good yields in the A funds and in the C funds, but they last shorter, so maybe it's not representative yet, it should wait for a certain number of years to pass. We heard that people were retired so they wouldn't get fired or anything. Yes, this country has had history and still has certain problems both macroeconomic and social, but pension funds cannot be blamed for all these problems. However, if the second pension column had broken down, as we also heard, it was simply not true. The fact that the vast majority of people who are going to retire at this time are members of the second pension pillar is a voluntary result of two very objective facts. One is that they are relatively short in compulsory pension funds, so they saved and paid short, and another is more important that they do not belong to a 27% pension that could not be easily generated and earned in compulsory pension funds in such a short time. As we have heard, the ministry is preparing a bill that will properly regulate it. We've also heard different numbers, very strange numbers about pension funds fees, seven, eight percent were mentioned, and some were mentioned, to look at once again, seven billion kunas of income, I don't know which seven billion kunas of income. If you look at that income and expenditure table of the mandatory pension funds management companies, then you will see from it that the total revenue from one year's fees is somewhere between 400 and 450 million kuna. So the vast billions definitely couldn't generate the more property in the pension funds was much, much smaller in the beginning and at the beginning. When we talk about investment in bonds, the situation of investment in bonds is actually the result of one side of the quantitative limits that we had and which the changes in 2014 have been eased, and also the result and the inability to actually have real investment opportunities in other forms of property in Croatia at a satisfactory level and the level of investment in Croatian government bonds in relative proportion, not in absolute but relative proportion in the future will definitely be reduced and will have to be reduced. There will also be an increase in investment abroad because it is inevitable in order to achieve a certain degree of diversification. When we talk about the costs we have related to HANFA and REGOS, we do not highlight it as a particular problem because these two institutions are doing their job in a way and we need them. However, we point out that the relative level of compensation is even higher. So if the management fee is 0.29, so those 009 actually pay for HANFA and REGOS, then the effective management fee was 0.3% last year. And when we talk about compensation fees, it will continue to be reduced in accordance with the law. I will not comment that these funds are not Croatian, they are definitely established under Croatian legislation, they work in Croatians, they correspond to the Croatian regulatory institution, etc., etc. There is no need to list the countries that have this or that form of compulsory pension savings, there are at least 20 in Europe and those that have not had to do so before or in some form. Let's say Great Britain introduced so-called. car enrollment means that each employer must join his employee in a pension fund and pay a part of his gross salary, reducing the net and part of the employer's additional salary. However, this employee can get out of that system. Poland, which nationalised the second pension pillar for reasons of budgetary laws and, like this, reintroduces mandatory pension savings to a small door, guiding the same car enrollment and is already in some way set up and set up. All in all I can personally say from the very beginning I am in this system before pension societies were established at all, I have been dealing with these topics, professionally and exclusively since 2004, and I can say that it is a single system and group of institutions, including companies for the management of compulsory pension funds but not only that but also the entire infrastructure that consists of both REGOS and HANFA and investment bankers in banks if you want and deposit banks definitely. Every part of that infrastructure has done its part of the job so that in this system we actually have not had any incidents or major problems in all of this history that is now here for the 16th year we haven't actually had. And the numbers and the results tell us how we've done our job so far and I believe we'll do it in the future. And another important thing, this job is done by people, there are 50 to 60 people in our societies who can go and do the same job tomorrow in Ireland, Japan, Great Britain or anywhere in the world because they have such knowledge and the level of education that it goes with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86968	I'd like to thank the esteemed Mr. coat of arms. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the government's representatives, State Secretary Majda Buric and Assistant Minister Melita Čičak and the representatives of the funds, the submissions of these reports to Mr Dubravk Štimac, Mr Damir Grbavac, Mr Kristian Buk and Mrs Senka Fekze Klemen. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this, we've exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue to work tomorrow morning at 9.30 p.m. with the item on the agenda Amendments and additions of the statutes of the Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. The session was interrupted in 20.35 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-19-0.u86969	A report on the work of AZ compulsory pension funds for 2017 is submitted by Allianz ZB d.o.o. the management company of compulsory pension funds, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of AZ compulsory pension funds for 2017 is accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 89 for and 4 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Honorable MPs, respected MPs, good morning. Before we begin our work, I invite you to honor Stjepan Radic, Pavl Radic, Đuri Basariček, Ivan Pernar and Ivan Granđa, the June victims of the assassination committed in the Belgrade Assembly on 20 June 1928. In 2015, the Croatian Parliament made a decision to declare today's Day of Remembrance of Stjepan Radic and the June victims. Stjepan Radic left a deep mark in Croatian political life with his science based on the principles of freedom, social rights and democracy which he actively acted on the awakening and awareness of the Croatian people. During his political action, he supported most of the Croatian people and faced political persecution, pressures and prison sentences in the fight for his views. I invite you now to pay tribute to Stjepan Radić and Croatian representatives, victims of the assassination, as well as to all other Croatian victims who gave their lives in the fight for free and democratic Croatia. - A minute of silence – Let it be an easy Croatian country! Praise them!
