ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u101866	It is now time to state the position of the Club of Representatives in accordance with Article 249a. The first application for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, esteemed colleague Furio Radin. Here you go, colleague Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u101867	Thank you very much. Yesterday we celebrated the International Day of Human Rights and the adoption of one, I would call it a revolutionary document so dangerous that those who do not want a civilized world, because of their own interests, or accept that document and do not respect it or accept it. Just as an explanation, for the first time the declaration is spoken of a declaration, a general declaration or a universal declaration of human rights, it was first published in Croatia in 2009 because, in its own time, Yugoslavia was not accepted and after that, it was never officially published in Croatia, but in the 2009 National Journal. Of course, this declaration contains freedoms of economic and social on the one hand, cultural, and on the other hand, political and civil but if we have to be honest, all the countries of the world were, in fact, if they applied that declaration that is not binding but morally, then they applied it only partially. Parliaments in our case Parliament, should be a step ahead of society because we are chosen here to improve society rather than keep it at the same level or to reverse society. If we don't do that job, we're actually doing it badly. Yet people perceive us as a group of quarrelers who either defend some positions or attack in fact without giving us an alternative or setting one positive goal. There's no missing speech in Parliament, and that's what everyone sees us, so then it's actually in the eyes of course we're all, there's not even a hate speech missing. Yesterday, during a public rally on hate speech, a campaign against this form of very concrete violence that has serious consequences on its own, and on the other hand, the lobby is physically and materially entitled to that violence, physical violence, a campaign that is focused on us politicians as well. And they gave me and I took the obligation, I'm here as some kind of postman, is that, to take a card that's for us, and we'll leave it in the caslic, I'll ask the Secretariat to leave us in a cassle of such cards with 5 recommendations, it's a campaign to suppress hate speech in the political space of the Office of Human Rights and the rights of the national minority, the Government's Office, with five recommendations to suppress speech, suppress hate speech in political space. You will see here, and those amongst you who will put it in your wallet or pocket at hand will actually have the opportunity to read when emotions prevail, and in all of us which times have emotions over reason, such things happen, as in every Parliament. With five recommendations to suppress, to suppress hate speech in political space. One is, one recommendation is don't abuse freedom of speech, the other is to keep your country from speaking hate, the third is to condemn every hate speech, just because we have to be ahead, we have to go towards a better society and be a step ahead, not a step behind a society that chooses us. The fourth is to criticize the message of the person, not its properties, and the fifth is to keep this reminder. Finally, he reminded us of Article 240(2). .../incomprehensible/... that's what I'm gonna end up with and he says. A reminder by taking away the words will also be given to the representative when he calls for violence or hatred and hatred, or when he insults the Croatian people of religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, as well as foreign and international organisations and their representatives, here reminds us of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u101868	End of quote, thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague Radin, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120744	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Just a few information means before we go. I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure in the agenda of the sitting, I have placed the point of opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of requests for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, these are the points which the Committee worked on yesterday, and the automation goes into the agenda. And the second thing is, I would propose, in accordance with Article 247, the Rules of Procedure, to bring together the debate on the following three points: - and the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Civil Protection Act, - the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety - and the Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on Mine Action, would therefore begin and later during the day bring together points: - The Final Proposal for the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection, - The Final Proposal for the Law amending the Law on the Implementation of EU Regulation 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of emissions of carbon dioxide from maritime transport, the reporting of them and their verification, and amending Directive 2009/16/EC, - and the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law of 29 April 2015 on the Law on the Law on the implementation of the European Parliament and repealing the European Parliament's legislation. Are we okay with that? If we are, thank you very much, and then we'll start working. So, as I have announced, the first three points we are discussing are united: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Civil Protection System Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PB No 537, - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 538, - and the Final Proposal of the Law amending the Law on Mine Action, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No 539, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give an additional explanation of these proposals, or of the Final Proposals of the Law, with us the Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120745	Dear Mr. President, thank you. Honorable Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Therefore, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Reform Plan, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reached a conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies, the Institute, the Funds, the Institute, the Foundation, companies and other legal entities with public authority on 2 August of this year, as a way of achieving one of the reform priorities that involves building an effective public administration. In order to revive this conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established and proposes to the Croatian Assembly Final Proposals of the Civil Protection System Act, the Law on Mine Action and the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security with the draft Final Proposals of the Law. Therefore, the scope of the proposed amendments to the Law concern only the necessary functional changes to determine the competence of the Ministry of the Interior and to delegate the rights and obligations of the organisations mentioned above to the Ministry of the Interior. The amendments would therefore prescribe the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior for Civil Protection Affairs, Mine Action and Radiological Nuclear Security, as well as the consequent Home Affairs Minister to take measures and activities that have so far been in the work of those organisations, as well as the preparedness activities for the possible occurrence of major threats or in the event of the declaration of disaster, as well as the adoption of the necessary legal, sublegal apologies, acts, based on those laws. The proposals for the Law are also the basis for the integration of those organisations, therefore, the State Administration, the Institute of Radiological and Nuclear Security and the Croatian Mine Action Centre at the Ministry of Interior, as well as the creation of specific organisational units that will unite all these issues. Now a few words in particular about the Civil Protection System Act. Thus, the creation of this new legislative framework enables effective security risk management, and plans to direct administrative, professional and financial capacity at all levels, and achieves sustainable development, equipment and modernisation, which contributes to their interoperability. By rounding up individual assessment capabilities, for the making of evaluations and cross-sectoral cooperation, a basis is formed necessary for quality planning, prevention and operational action processes and achieves a uniform form of action. Addressing the problem of responsibilities in management and command due to a unique system of pooling analytical processing and faster exchanges of information on the events they pose, pose a potential threat, and pooling of professional staff and sharing of professional knowledge and experience is expected faster and better quality coordination of intervention services, as well as increased efficiency in the decision-making process. Similarly, a significant reduction in the costs of the system for operational and logistics affairs is expected, and what is particularly important and significantly easier is the more efficient system of withdrawing financial resources from the European Funds, which indirectly enables sustainable financing of the system and quality equipment of the unit. The organisation of activities at the central level will be organised through the Civil Protection Directorate, which will be organised in particular by the Ministry of the Interior, which will bring together all the tasks prescribed by the relevant laws and regulations. In this way, it is planned to reduce the number of management officers by more than 30% compared to the current structure of integrated organisations, and reduce the number of structural sites by 20%. The funds for the implementation of the civil protection system law are secured in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia and no additional costs are expected to be incurred. When it comes to the number of officials who would move from the current state administration for protection and rescue, 630 interior ministry officials are expected. Dear MPs and MPs here now allow me to take a brief, final proposal on amendments and additions to the Mine Action Act. It proposes the necessary amendments to the provisions in order to determine the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior for Mine Action Affairs for which the Croatian Mine Action Centre was now responsible. Therefore, the Croatian Mine Action Centre ends with the work of the date of entry into force of the proposed law, meaning 1.12019. Private provisions stipulate that the Ministry of Interior is taking over all the jobs, letters, and other documentation of the means of work, real estate, rights and liabilities and financial resources of CROMAC and employees found in the undertaken jobs, which would thus become civil servants of the public. Until we reach a solution on the schedule at the Ministry of the Interior, these employees will continue to carry out the tasks identified by previous labour contracts and retain the right to pay, other labour rights, as well as the obligation and responsibilities of previous labour contracts. And this is about 155 total, so far public and future civil servants of which 70 have the identification of pyrotechnics, so they do the work of pyrotechnic supervisors or pyrotechnic... All commitments so far on the national and international agenda under way or which are fully assumed by the Ministry of the Interior and their implementation continues in the intended manner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this context, you would be informed very briefly that, in recent weeks at the 17 meetings of the Ottawa Convention Member States, the Republic of Croatia has been granted 23 requests for an extension of the demining period, which provides for the removal of all known minefields by 1 March 2026. Therefore, the proposed takeover of employees of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is to provide initial savings of one million and 650 thousand kuna at an annual level of EUR 1 million and 100 thousand, resulting in the abolition of certain management jobs, and an additional 550 thousand on material expenditures due to the abolition of administrative and advisory bodies. And finally, the third proposal of the Law on your benches is the proposal of the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security with the final proposal of the laws are equally envisaged only necessary changes in terms of the delegation of powers of competence and responsibility to the Ministry of the Interior. In this respect, it is also important to clarify the ambiguities that have arisen in the implementation of the consultation procedures with the interested public. In view of the comments received on the bill, which point to an aspect of the need for independence, it is important to note that the concept of independence before EU accession is often justified by compliance with the EU acquis. However, it should point out that the founding agreements, as well as those of secondary EU legislation, regulations, directives, decisions and other acts, do not prescribe the establishment of a state administration in certain Member States, until these amendments come out of the framework of the principle resulting from EU strategic documents. Therefore, operational independence, which is suggested by those Directives, will be achieved in a way that the operations will be carried out within the framework of an independent internal establishment unit and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, thereby ensuring that the requirement, operational, independence is fully met, while the actual independence of the Ministry, as a regulatory body, from inappropriate influences in decision making, doing business, in the field of radiological and nuclear security, will be ensured by the separation of specific functions of the internal structures of the Ministry of Interior, which will be resolved by the internal organisation regulation of the Ministry of Interior, which will be adopted after the entry into force of this law. And here at this law, it is projected to achieve a financial savings of a million 635 thousand kuna on expenditures for employees of 880 thousand kuna and around 755,000 kuna of material expenditure for renting space now used by the Department of Nuclear and Radiological Security. So, here, I'm going back together again to all three laws. All 3 laws propose only the most necessary amendments to the change of competences which constitute an element allowing the delegation of current transactions from these institutions to the MUP. I repeat, this job will be fully completed by adopting sublegislative acts, above all, on the internal organisation of the MUP by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the acts adopted under that Regulation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120746	Thank you and the Secretary of State. We have seven replicas. The first is the honorary colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120747	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Katic, here on behalf of the HSS, I can say in my name that we are against this way of abolishing agencies. We believe that the government's conclusion was made hastily, that this is reform again without real reform and that the real impact assessments of these regulations have not been made. Here is an example of the abolition of the Agricultural Advisory Forest Service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency, which was supposed to help our producers save about a million and a half kuna, and more cost to change tables, write solutions, etc. Similarly here, the abolition of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue is a step back in civil protection, and you have only recognised it in a certain way because you will have a special Directorate for Protection and Rescue within the MUP, so why cancel them and why reduce the number of outposts by 20% when the counties together with the State Protection and Rescue Department have invested in the premises, equipment to create a civil protection system. I mean... that it's not a cor business of the MUP [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to remain a special service. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120748	Here's your answer. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120749	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the assessment has been done to show this about the costs, I have stated how much the cost reduction is, and as far as the district offices of the State Department of Protection and Rescue are concerned, they will remain, however, but within the framework of the Ministry's police administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120750	Comrade Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120751	I thank the President, respected ministers, so to save, that if they are functional, that if they will save on administration rather than operational staff, and that if these funds will be converted to better equipment, to more education, to more opportunities, and that we will have a civil protection system, and above all I mean the State Administration and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, then yes. My question is that the deadline of 6 months is on the transitional and final harmonisation provisions after these formal only functional changes regarding the inscription, whether it will be enough and to what extent you really expect it to come to life, and of course when we say that the public, I think, is already full of a hat of powerful agencies, and if this is going to bring administrative staff together to create surpluses, to deploy, not to be employed then absolutely yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120753	Dear Mr. Representative, everything that is therefore planned will be done and done, so this deadline that has been set, we hold that sufficient and that we will make a full reshuffle within that time limit. And of course one of the main reasons for the reconstruction is exactly what you said, the reduction of these logistics services, which we will unite, and operational services will continue to strengthen. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue has, therefore, a large amount of technique, it will now be obtained in the same, along with the MUP, so those people who have worked on supplies and other logistics jobs will now get a larger total and will fit into the MUP, and we hold that this will significantly reduce the cost of logistics and from providing more resources for operational jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120754	Now it's time for a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120755	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respects the secretary of state, so when you have instructed all three laws I have tried to write down how many people you will be within the Ministry, so 600 and something related to civil protection if I am not mistaken, 100 and one 40, 50 related to demining, and this radiologically this is something that I missed. I'm curious about how much of a contingent of people who are going to go from being public servants to being government officials and how many of them you're going to take over and whether, which deadline you need to write all those solutions to make it all possible, to do it all together, it's one large technical job that you need to do. I guess I'm just saying from the technical aspects of what I think I'm going to say next in the debate, but I'm interested in this organisational technical, how long it takes you to do it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120757	Dear Madam MPs, therefore, some preparations are already being made, it is up to about 800 people, of which in addition to these 150 CROMACs are already state officials of the State Department for Protection and Rescue and the Office for Nuclear and Radiological Security. So there is an additional 150 public, current public officials from the Croatian Mine Action Centre. We believe, therefore, that, as explained in the argument that we will do all of this within a few months, their tasks and obligations remain the same, so it will need some minor logistics changes, such as. indicated the relocation of the Institute of Nuclear and Radiological Security from the previous space to the MUP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120758	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120759	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Trutt. Of course, when the government does something, then it should be commended for the difference when it doesn't work, then we attack and when it doesn't work and when it does, in that sense something happens, it should be welcomed. However, there is one question you're talking about savings means the management staff and everything that, I think, that's the number, that's agriculture, that's the number somewhere from a million, million thousand kunas to be saved, but will those services be more efficient, will it be organisationally better, that's the key question? If it hadn't been for the end of the day for us to bring the Agency's administration here as David brought the Badger to court, his corn was eaten, whether our corn would be more pregnant after this, whether it would be more successful, it's a key question, it's less important whether the Agency exists as an independent service or whether it's in the Ministry's system, the bigger question is whether they will now be more effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120760	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120761	Dear Mr. Representative, that is, the main intention of these changes, of course, that financial savings aren't irrelevant, but more importantly, these very responsible services work better, so at least they've worked pretty well so far, but that they work even better, to tie up the command system, we think that these changes will do so. So, financial savings are secondary, not irrelevant, but the main security of our citizens and their assets, which we will achieve by bringing these services together under the Ministry of the Interior. There are still some projects under way to purchase certain equipment, primarily fire trucks, one major project and another project to supply communication equipment, we think these systems will be even more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120762	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120763	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here you have told us about the savings, I am particularly interested in the savings that this will bring to the state budget for 2019, so how much savings are these savings, as far as we can see in the state budget because we don't see it. The MPs we saw last year's budget, they're paying in the MUP, and the costs are going up, so there's no savings, so on that side I'm interested in exactly how much savings you see. As far as the Mine Action Centre is concerned, I'm completely against it, it's an important institution, 40 million m2 is not demined in the Republic of Croatia, 60 cities and municipalities are covered, and I wouldn't do it, and what I'm particularly irritated today are the headlines of newspapers where Kuščević announces 500 less, says in 2019, and Andrej Plenković and HDZ are in the past two years employed over 4000 [[Intruder: Thank you]] New people. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So there's more employees, and now they're announcing 500. They'll shut them down. [[Agreement: Comrade Maras, thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120764	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120765	Dear Mr. Representative, I have stated in the interpretation of the Law which is now predictable changes to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, so far the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the Institute for Nuclear and Radiological Security, are not present at this time except for these estimates, because these in the budget are shown in the budget of the Ministry of Nuclear and Radiological Security, so until this transition of officials is carried out, it is not possible to say the exact figures that are savings, but they are on these two organisations, so CROMAC and the Office are quite easy to calculate, and at the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, therefore, a significant reduction in the number of people and in the number of management jobs. which will be 30% smaller. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120766	Thank you, colleague Orepic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120767	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, who is currently talking about security system savings in this area, I find him inconclusive and not understanding the problem. As a small country, we cannot develop large systems overlapping in our functions and so I welcome this trend that goes in terms of uniting security systems. I note that we need to go far more courageous and determined and more concrete, these security systems still have a lot of overlaps, especially in the area of fire and border police. So that's where you have to go much more concretely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120768	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120769	I agree with what Mr. Honorable Representative mentioned, there is a lot of overlapping with these communications services, numbers which, therefore, are on duty, therefore, it is all possible to unify the number of officials who do these jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120770	And the last line, dear colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120771	Dear colleagues, the Demining Centre, uh, the deminers, there was one particular resistance to merger, there was a protest a few weeks ago, people were afraid, of course, for wages, filling, operationality, what it would look like if they weren't independent and staffing, that someone would impose personnel, I think if we were saving on that process, we heard how polluted it was from more space in the Republic, there was 10 people killed and wounded since the end of the war, there shouldn't be saving, but at the same time I think complete for the MUP that the most important factors in each organisation were experience and morality. What's the morale of the police if we spend on equipment, which is good, and cops have minimum wage. You won't get a professional for that money you have now and you won't have people at this military academy, I'd just like to ask you an answer to those questions. What about the deminers? Is that where they're going to suffer? Operations and what's going to happen to that? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120772	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120773	The government believes that all the main tasks that the Croatian Mine Action Centre (CROMAC) has carried out so far will, therefore, be carried out by its pyrotechnic overseers, pyrotechnic supervisors and other persons in an equally high-quality manner. I therefore remind myself that apart from these officials, so far CROMAC officials, demining in the Republic of Croatia performs about 700 authorised pyrotechnics in various companies in a total of 39 companies, therefore, nothing changes in their business. They are the ones who demining the Republic of Croatia, and in the future CROMAC has only been overseeing this job to be done according to the rules of profession and quality. When it comes to the material rights of the pyrotechnics of CROMAC, they remain. Just a year ago, a new collective contract was passed and it remains in force and continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120774	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I do not open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, distinguished colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120775	... Honorable Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. [[Specially enabled.]] First of all, I'd like to ask you to give your regards to the Minister. This is the second year in which he has not been able to defend a single law here in the Croatian Parliament, not even on the Committees on Internal Policy, which did not even report his work before MPs and MPs to defend him. Here, above all, it should be said that this is just to throw of course dust into the eyes on alleged reforms and the national reform programme for 2018, it is envisaged by the action plan to abolish certain agencies with certain priorities called building an efficient public administration, depolitisation, managing human resources in the public sector, informing public services. Of course, here is the MUP joined it, or it will suck up three agencies or something we actually called reform in 2015, and we have changed that system precisely with a great consensus here in our Parliament, which is that the State Protection and Rescue Authority should be central, a civilian body that will ensure that throughout Croatia, using all the resources among other things and the HGSS, as well as firepower fits into the civil protection system, and today it is no longer so. Of course, today is not about abolishing agencies, but about abolishing the reform that was put into effect in 2015, and that is precisely what is very important in order for those standards that the EU has, which is what is more decentralisation, which is less militarisation and that civil services are doing their part of the job and what is very important to activate the very resources that exist, which are among other things those parts that may be the best functioning in the civil protection system and there is no mention of them, because we can yet expect the adoption of a new Fire Department Act, we can yet expect the adoption of a new Civil Protection System Act. So this is just fulfilling the form so that by New Year's Eve you can say here we've abolished three agencies. This is a completely missed project, first and foremost in contrast with the National Security Strategy, which only mentions in a few sentences the situation in general about what civil protection is. We here of course in the Croatian Parliament as usual do not have an annual report on the achievement of the National Security Strategy, although it is prescribed in the strategy itself and in all laws. This is a point that will, of course, deliberately skip even though it was an announcement that exactly the National Security Strategy would be the basic document from which we will build the system. There it was pointed out precisely that the engagement of volunteers of all those who function and work that there would then be a backbone which would then be for professionals who do not have a large number because here we are actually talking about a few hundred people who should be coordinated by such services. Not only will there not be depoliticisation, but vice versa, what should be an integral part of the civil protection system within the EU will be denied the possibility of using some of the EU funds. As regards the independence of the regulatory body as it is related to nuclear security, there is absolutely a violation of all EU rules and we will come to a situation that an important institution, as prescribed in the EU, is no longer able to be a regulatory body, regardless of how much you have stated that it will be a department, or administration or part of the interior ministry system. Of course, the costs of the absolutes that are set out here, first of all, it's not good to hear that you don't know what they are, and then we're talking about saving a million and a half kuna all together because you're going to move a couple of institutions or stop paying rent for them. I think it was very important to just point out that this inappropriate influence associated with political, economic and social conditions is changing today, and that is why the regulatory agency was established, in line with EU rules, I am specifically saying this about nuclear installations. Today, the Ministry of Interior, the last hole in the player, will be one, the second and third groups, and there will be a situation that not only won't achieve what was the intensity when we entered the EU, which is to strengthen the civil sector and we continue militarisation in such a way that it will be an integral part of the repressive system of the Ministry of Interior that should have a supervisory function and not a situation as we do today, which is that it will be part of the same system itself. When you change 94 articles in each of these laws, about 90, somewhere 98, about 94, of course there's a need for new laws. But I repeat the haste is, I see that the action plan must be achieved urgently and quickly. Therefore, all this together is, of course, something that we will soon have on the agenda again and where we will have to talk again about the same new topics in the Croatian Parliament and try to save the thing that has somehow come to life. And I must say that the organised civil protection system of 2015 has just presented the reform of the existing system of protection and rescue has come to a situation that connects the local community to the same regional self-government and that civil protection bodies in this work and that segment are now fulfilling their important operational competence, as well as funding. This is how we are now in a situation where it will get lost, and the story will be repeated with the harmonisation of the plans that civil protection headquarters must have, the state administration, regardless, we could object to a lot of things, but it has made very significant moves especially on this plan and funding. The link between the MUP and the State Protection and Rescue Authority was primarily in the joint audit and everything else worked so that they were able to participate in both European projects and the withdrawal of EU funds, as well as in international contracts signed in this particular civil action where they were able to participate in international exercises, as well as in situations of protection and rescue and assistance provided by members of civil protection. They had their international sign of civil protection, now they'll probably get some new ones. What is true, and that is, instead of continuing with this very reform that was intended to achieve an effective civil protection system to employ all those resources, today you will be in a situation that, in fact, without adopting, of course, all of these other laws, we have a situation that we have violated what we have agreed, and that is that the question in the Homeland Security Act we say that the Homeland Security System, which is the system and resources of internal affairs but also civil protection. Of course it won't be any more, it will now be the Administration as indicated, supposedly we'll save in the executive staff which, of course, isn't true, because of what should have been strengthened rather than reduced. As much money as is used at this point for a bad organisation in the system that no reserves have been activated, that no possibility exists for many years, which is that more than 7,000 people can be in the backup system, that they can do local jobs without having a huge cost of accommodation. The fact is that from a few years ago when 10,000 young people who wanted to join the police applied to the Police Academy, I can fill in a number today, there are not enough numbers or candidates for as many places as there are at the Police Academy. I will just say that in the field of civil protection systems in all segments of protection and rescue that should have been able to respond to threats, risks and to create a model of construction and ability and what we have committed to the strategy, which is that we will develop civil protection, the Croatian Fire Community, the Croatian Red Cross, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service and other actors at the state, regional and local level, it will no longer be. I'm going to repeat one more thing, which is that certain NGOs are just saying the name, NGOs are not able to be in a position at all to apply through the MUP for certain projects, and they're being denied that possibility. I'm just going to give an example and that's that the Red Cross by its rules, the Croatian Red Cross, has no right to be either in a military tent or near to be with the military. In this way, in the composition of the MUP and the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, which was just a bypass and ensures that they can participate, there will be no more of this today. What was a key form of increasing the sustainability of national security was the involvement of the population in civil protection. Today it is one of the things that has been stopped, here is by passing a law like this, by abolishing the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, to talk about reducing the number of duty in a situation where 1800 people in the MUP are sitting behind the phone and not using an effective system, which is that these same people, with today's techniques and capabilities, can in any way be rationalized and put into operation. What is the message on behalf of the SDP club, I must say that the continuation of further militarisation within society, the non-exploitation of the opportunities offered by the EU in particular in the work relating to the civil sector continues. No wonder in this situation that we have today, it's actually the first agencies to disappear that should have been the backbone of something called civil protection. Civil protection cannot be an integral part of the MUP as one of its segments, place it in the ranks of the same body that needs to oversee civil protection affairs and therefore, there is no need to waste any more time or further talk about this because of what is being done by me, the task that has been adopted, which is that it can be said that some action plan to implement the public administration development strategy has brought down exactly the part that is talking about the national security strategy and that the fulfilment of such action plan and the strategy of reducing the number of agencies just to say that we have a smaller number, leading to a first step and I will repeat, of course, that from the report on the achievement of the national security strategy we will not hear in the Croatian Parliament, although it is prescribed by law and the strategy itself, at least once a year, to hear such things. This is not to be discussed and this is why the SDP club will not support these laws because the consequences that will be passed by this law are just tossing dust in the eyes and in my opinion, will not increase either the nor the effectiveness nor the possibility of saving anything. And I will also note, of course, that you can expect that members of the state administration to protect and rescue the moment they enter the MUP will certainly ask for all those conditions that have both authorised police officers and their unions and collective agreements and join in doing so, therefore, the costs will only rise, and not fall, therefore, this is the moment in which we naturally took a step back and this today by calling it an end of the agency, in fact calling the abolition of that reform that I made in 2015, it is not allowed to live and when disaster occurs, and now we will come to the situation that the MUP, or some of its segment, will be responsible. This will not change the situation and instead of hiring as many people in the civil sector as possible, as many NGOs, as many of those who volunteer to do the job, we have come to a variant that just to fill the form, we will have to remove a number of agencies without any need and without any situation to measure it and that it can be said that it will contribute to the processing or home security systems. And President, I would ask you, given that the debates have been united, to allow the clubs to speak at least twice as much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120776	Wait a minute, wait a minute, no one asked for 20 minutes, so I'm asking you to stick to this for 15 minutes. My colleague Ostojić, you were right, so don't do that, now you've suddenly come up with the idea of talking for 20 minutes and you're now attacking me that I could attack you and every time I'm asked to give you 20 minutes. Well, don't you forget, you didn't take advantage of the opportunity, and now we'd fight, there's no real difference. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120777	Mr. President, considering it very correct on Mr. Bukarica's proposal, we've accepted this very variant that we're not discussing it, I expected you to suggest it, but if you think we need it as soon as possible, you can cut it to five minutes, it's no problem, as little as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120778	I'm watching now as you deliberately provoke, I mean, it's very interesting to me, as you deliberately provoke the conflict now, we could have had 20 minutes, you haven't asked, and now you've suddenly remembered and we're starting the debate completely unnecessary now. Here's your colleague, Maras. You've been wasting your break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are asking for a session of the Representatives' Club to be consulted in further debate, since it is also evident after the debate of fellow Members Ostojić and after the opening statements of Mr. Secretary of State, that this is not about any savings at all, nor is there any idea of how much savings these savings will be, since the budget in the MUP is growing the following year, there is no speech at all about any savings, but rather about one performance, P.R. It's like a public show, like something's being saved. Today's headlines are screaming, the scissors of this, as it is called, HDZ political secretary Kuščević, 500 people say they reduce in the next year, and we all see in the Republic of Croatia, that in the past 2 years, the HDZ government is 4000 more employees and not in the public services that work hard than in the ministries and people get caught in this way, our people are leaving Croatia, over 100 thousand people have left Croatia, and the HDZ government hired 4000 more people than it was a year ago, and now we're selling stories about some reforms, Kuščević's scissors of 500 people in 2019, and the entire system only goes to 5,000 people every year. In the HGSS, which is one of the most valuable services in the Mine Action Centre, which saves the lives of our fellow citizens in terms of minefields, and it's simply a shame and we need to consult on that. This isn't, these aren't savings, this is P.R. It's a show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120780	I'll have a break by 10:30. It's 10:00.22. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.33 HOURS]] Let's move on now, dear colleague Branko Hrg, the HDS, HSLS and HDSB's club, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120782	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Secretary of State and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The HDS, HSLS and HDSB club supports these amendments to the Law and we welcome the abolition of the State Protection and Rescue Administration. Since its founding, it has not known its meaning, its function is unknown, and the whole time it has been a stumbling block or a pebble in a shoe in fact in that walk towards the structure of the protection and rescue system. If they asked the citizens of the Republic of Croatia what that even meant, probably a percentage of the difference could be measured by those who would even know that such a thing exists. I remember as well as the local leader, when it happened, when it was organized, what was happening. People were just moved from cities to the city which was the center of the county, there were rooms arranged, equipment arranged, they went to education, they got uniforms, uniforms and that was it. We doubled the system, we doubled the numbers, where we had prior to the Public Fire Department (JVP) and 24-hour watch, we have them today, they weren't practically the ones who could answer those phones, there was also the State Protection and Rescue Authority that basically asked for data from these local designs and then reported it. They were just a distraction from some normal functioning and it's absolutely good to remove such a system, that it goes under the MUP because when some kind of disaster happens, who goes out? Police come out after that, volunteers, mostly firefighters, then volunteer Red Cross, in the mountainous areas of Croatia, a mountain rescue service that is strengthened year after year on a volunteer base. Which is what we need in between, one step that needs to be crossed, which we don't need if we can walk straight, let's not make hills on a flat road, and that was just with this protection and rescue administration. It was a complex system that served itself and bothered the citizens, hindering the functioning. When we passed the Civil Protection Act, and then I pointed out some of the problems that many of the other MPs pointed out here in the Parliament, it was that we were basically not using enough of what we have, we're not putting into the right place the system that is strongest, and that's voluntary fire aided by professional fire. We today have the opportunity to really in these systems of JVP, the phone on call, and these other jobs, to receive such notices, not we have two, we have double, so that they crash and every such reduction is welcome. I'm not sure that we've done well in some of the other agencies that we might have abolished or reorganized them, but here we are, absolutely. And it's hard to find an argument on this, it's gone. So the system didn't revive, we made ourselves a bureaucratic body that was forced over all those who did, and we got what was once in the former state was often that one picker one doing, and I don't know, seven watching how much it was, so it was here in this system. They were all bosses, and some were working, and some were never even seen, and that's why it's to say hello to what's going on. The system of civil protection is simply a system that needs to be revived, a system that needs to be given special attention, a system in which citizens should be maximumly involved. These days we have this case of rude behaviour of high school students towards their teacher, according to their teacher, it may be an opportunity for the system of civil protection, for such models of one education to be introduced into schools, to be educated by students, to get their attention and attention, perhaps less target teachers with chalks and be socially useful to themselves and the whole society, we have to work there, to wake up this one positive direction in people, especially in young people, to include schools to develop this single spirit of help in distress, then it will be civil protection, but it is based on fire and the Red Cross. We also have this stupidity that we've legally prescribed, so you can't when you're doing a program of protection and rescue in a city, you can't put as one of the institutions in that emergency care system, the homes of health, because you're not their founders, they can't as well be in that protection and rescue system, so we're going to have to think a little bit more about these things, a little bit more about simplifying them, simplifying them and installing into that civil protection system everything that's available in some environment, everything that can be organized. From the foundations of firefighters and the red cross to other legal entities, institutions operating in the area, and then we will get a simple system, but I repeat it should work on educating people, preparing people to involve themselves in, that this system is being upgraded, that we have the one to say the infantry that is always needed, because it is always the people who should eventually come, who must be on the ground. So the civil protection directorship that will be established under these changes is a good thing, because somewhere there has to be someone who's in charge, who's in charge that this pyramid can work, and that eventually it has its own head and tail, and not that it has a verse like that in many of the disasters that have been happening in Croatia, when people who wanted to get involved, came on their own, voluntarily, and no one could organise them properly, and then there could have been a variety of accidents and problems that were not needed. And that's the job that's ahead of us, that's the job that's gonna have to be done. By abolishing the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, we reduce one obstacle and move towards that goal to simplify the system and improve it. That's why as a club, we'll support these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120783	Thank you. We are now going to the HDZ Club of Representatives, we have two representatives of colleagues Djakic and Kopic, first to speak to counterpart Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120784	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs, so here we have a united debate on three legislative proposals, which is in fact in line with the National Reform Programme, as well as the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other real persons with public authority. In fact, the proposal of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue belongs to the MUP, which takes over the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, so that the State Administration for Protection and Rescue ceases to act as an independent body. In public, this merger also has those who do not accept well and predominates the opinion that civil protection jobs should basically be decentralised as basic business of local and regional (regional) self-government. However, the division of key components of the operational part of the system of protection of vital national interests, in particular the health and life of civil society, material goods and standards for quality work and life, is a source of non-compliance, the disorganization of the entire system, which has been particularly reflected in the establishment of a home security system. In particular, the National Reform Programme and the Action Plan for the implementation of the public administration development strategy in the period 2017 to 2020 clearly define what the priorities are, which is building an efficient public administration, under two effective management of human resources in the public sector and three public service information. The main reasons for the merger of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and the MUP are numerous. The MUP is part of the internal aspect of national security and this merger is more closely imported into the governance and decision-making process, clear lines of obligations and responsibilities are established, better use of European funds is expected to be made in order to strictly modernise and connect informatively. The main advantages of the merger of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, as well as other bodies of the MUP, are to increase the efficiency of the public administration in general, faster data exchange, processing of information, creating a unique system of uniting security and operational data, especially in crisis situations caused by natural technical technological disasters, faster and more quality coordination of intervention services. A total reduction in the costs of the system for operational affairs, pooling of professional staff, exchange of professional knowledge and experience, as well as a unified system of education and treatment in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia are achieved. The problem of competence in management and command is also addressed, ensuring faster and better quality coordination of intervention services. In this respect, it should be pointed out that the home security system was very quick to detect problems and shortcomings in the existing operating system, and worst of all these shortcomings were most highlighted in crisis times, at a time of major elemental disasters. Civil protection is one of the fundamental elements of the home security system, which is why it needs to be strengthened and further built and managed from one centre, the centre is the MUP. In this second proposal, there was also opposition to the organisation that stands out in CROMAC in light of one of the recognised Croatian brands. Thanks to the developed system and long-term experience, CROMAC employees come to teach people from other countries who have problems with mine pollution. Also among the most important issues is the way in which legal rights of employees will be regulated or maintained. It has been pointed out that employees who participated in the creation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre for 20 years have specific skills that are not available on the labour market, so their departure would significantly disrupt or even completely block the continuation of the smooth implementation of mine action in the Republic of Croatia. The demining operations would be lost in dynamics or there would be a complete suspension that would undermine the national interest in the demining of the Republic of Croatia. However, there is no doubt that CROMAC has top-notch footage which is impossible to replace or replace, and that through its work, CROMAC established knowledge and skills highly rated on the international scene. However, it should be pointed out that in a public debate, the applicant unequivocally pointed out that the implementation of the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not have the character of assimilation but of integration, and integration into organisations with the aim of achieving a satisfactory level of efficiency and internal security at the level of the state, respecting the individual characteristics and expertise of each of the integrated institutions. Accordingly, no change in the existing name of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is foreseen, with the aim of retaining a prominent international identity and visibility, as well as further development in the implementation of acquired experiences and further use of existing capacity of professional services for the development and support of internal affairs, within the Ministry of the Interior. The reorganisation removes the lack of support for support services, the circulation of professional capacities and mutual cooperation, should raise the ability to intervene faster and quality coordination of intervention services, and, as proposed, cohesiveness should also be achieved, and the pooling of expert staff, as well as the exchange of professional knowledge and experience. One of the main objectives of this merger is the financial nature and concerns the reduction of the costs of the system for operational and logistics affairs, and to create a more efficient and faster system of withdrawal from the European Funds, which will be set up specialised services. In addition, significant savings are expected, given that the capacity of the CROMAC will be used, which is incomparably higher than the capacity of CROMAC, in particular with regard to equipment and financial opportunities. The savings will also be achieved through the abolition of certain jobs, such as the director, head of the director's office, representative of the branch, assistant director and the abolition of the Governing Council of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the advice of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The CROMAC shall be subject to the status of CROMAC employees in particular. In fact, in the transitional and final provisions of this bill, it is determined that on the date of entry into force of this Act, the Ministry takes over all the jobs and workers found in the taken over jobs that become civil servants on the day of the takeover. Until the adoption of the Schedule Decision on the day, at the posts of the Ministry, the workers will continue to carry out the tasks identified by the work contract so far, and retain the right to pay, other labour rights and obligations and responsibilities under the present labour contract. In a public debate, the Proposer pointed out that employees will be offered jobs according to their professional preparation, work experience, motivation, taking into account other personal, living circumstances, which is why each case is individual. In addition to the formal characteristics of the employees involved in the expertise, experience and other skills, the interview will be held, both the wishes and theaffirmities of individual employees, and ultimately the organisational structure and individual jobs will be defined. It is certainly important here to emphasise and insist on the proper process of determining the rights of the taken-over employees, given that it is a single staff, the applicant should certainly pay particular attention to this issue. Not only should these employees continue to have material and status security, but they should also bear in mind the fact that these people would, by their knowledge, skills, guarantee the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia in mine action. The Croatian Democratic Community club, which supports the bill's proposals, will now continue counterpart Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120785	Here's your colleague, Kopić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120786	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Assistant Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for the Law amending the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security, with the Final Proposal of the Law, PZ No 538. In accordance with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the reduction of the number of agencies, Institutes, Funds, Institute, Foundation, Trade Companies and other legal persons with public authority, as of 02 August 2018, as a way of achieving one of the reform priorities that implies the construction of an effective public administration, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Reform Plan, the State Protection and Rescue Administration, the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety and the Agency for Spaces at Risked Explosive Attitude, are proposed to amend the Law with the date of entry into force, so that, on 01 January 2019, the rights and obligations of those organisations are delegated to the Ministry of Interior. In the current organisation of legal entities with the public authority of the agency type, we have encountered certain cases where jobs were carried out in several locations of the same nature, which was certainly one of the reasons why the costs of the state apparatus were increased and the unnecessary employment of staff in identical systematicised places. This new approach will bring these options down to the lowest possible level, and these actions will allow for better quality availability of financial resources and possible investment in another more necessary segment. Analyzingly, the government has decided to take over the affairs of the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security. In order to better understand the importance of such a step, we need to bear in mind that the Radiological Nuclear Safety Act sets out measures of radiological nuclear security, nuclear security measures, recording and surveillance of nuclear material, and other measures, not to spread nuclear weapons in the pursuit of activity with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activities, and the activities of providing radio-active waste for the purpose of enabling adequate protection of individuals, societies and the environment in the present and future from the adverse effects of ionising radiation and to enable the safe operation of activities with sources of ionising radiation, nuclear activities, and the activities of providing radioactive waste and exploited sources, and nuclear security of source of ionising radiation and nuclear plants. The provisions of that same Law relating to nuclear plants shall apply to each civilian nuclear plant for which approval is granted. The current responsibilities of the National Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Safety have moved since the approval of nuclear activities through the activities to handle radioactive waste and used resources, and the transport of ionising radiation, monitoring the state of security of nuclear power plants in the region, and the implementation and evaluation of potential nuclear hazards, as well as the monitoring and analysis of scientific and professional activities related to nuclear and radiological activity. It is apparent from all above that the Institute must be functionally separate from any other body or organisation engaged in the promotion or use of the source of ionising radiation or nuclear energy and must neither seek nor receive guidance from any such body or organisation in carrying out its tasks, and all for the purpose of ensuring real independence from an inappropriate impact on decision-making. It is important to bear in mind that the implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the adoption of this Act by amending the Radiological and Nuclear Security Act, as proposed in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120787	Let's move on, club of Independent Representatives, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120788	Thank you, President of HS, Your Honor, Mr. Katic, the Honorable Mr. Trut, my colleagues and colleagues, I will try to take a brief look at the most important points that we consider important, and regarding the adoption of this package of the Law, which the Government has held at its session on 2 August, it seems to me, to have made a decision to abolish a series of agencies, Institutes, Institutes, Funds, Foundations, more precisely 54. Among other things, today there are the National Protection and Rescue Authority, the Croatian Mine Action Centre (CROMAC) and the Centre for Protection against Nuclear and Radiological Security. So, first of all, let's say that because the word is still a complex task which these institutions are carrying out, and yet we have the impression that this is the top of the order we are discussing today, and in that sense, the first part of this remark is related to those direct savings that the proposer has stated in his explanation, which is the savings that will be achieved by not having more management when in those institutions and paying the rent needed for the work of such institutions, I will now be transferred to the Ministry, so it will become an integral part of the Ministry. In that sense, where we talk about savings by the Agency from some, let's say an indicative of 1.500,000,00 kn. As I said in the replica, we believe that any government activity that goes towards rationalisation and cost reduction, the accumulation of unnecessary state bodies, should this be done within the framework of existing institutions. So somehow they would say, the most effective state would have five ministries, internal affairs, foreign affairs, health care, education and judiciary, and then have a very effective state. However, when we start to build up the ministries and then state offices, institutions, then it's too much. However, what we are more concerned about, therefore, is that we welcome the savings announced, which worry whether an effective organisation of all those tasks and all those activities that have so far had by this agency or the State Administration will be able to carry out. So, according to what the Proposer is announcing, people will be, from the public service will be transferred to the state service, so they will be transferred to work at the Ministry, they must be provided with funds, for their salaries, and there are already some people who have asked the question, if we are specifically talking about the M.O.P. that they will be reprecised to the salaries of police officers, whether it will happen to these people, because we don't know from this bill, these people who will now come to the MUP if they keep their salaries, if they are higher than the salaries of police officers, whether their wages will be reduced or God give them wages to the cops. We don't know these ratios, but it would be a good idea for the motionor to take care of that and maybe if he knows that information, let us know. The next thing we need to warn ourselves that these laws affect many stakeholders, so to speak, and I would first of all mention the units of local self-government, municipalities, cities because ultimately, municipalities and cities are obliged to provide systems and civil protection in their area, once again to remember that handsome when representatives of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue came, I was at that time the head of the municipality, giving us a lecture, one of my fellow commanders said "that I knew what was all in my jurisdiction, I would never run." So, local self-government units still have those responsibilities that they had, and now let's just ask one practical question, if these powers are now transferred to the MUP, whether it will be easier to reach the minister or if it was easier to reach the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, to express myself a little more vividly. So we stay here and then we can't get around the fire department. I am pleased that, I am in this up to full support, the president of the Croatian Fire Department, Mr. Our colleague Ante Sanader who, and when we had a debate on the National Security Strategy we asked that the fire department be certainly included in the strategy and that he, I suppose, was able to fight to get the fire department out of this area, he did, or the proposal was to adopt a new Fire Department Act, the Croatian Fire Department would take over the operations of the fire department and as far as I understand it, the fire inspector would go to the MUP. It is good that, however, we did not get far away again because there are still obligations to local self-government units, especially small municipalities that have a 5% obligation to set aside for fire companies but that is with their budget, these are small amounts again, and many municipalities cannot equip their firefighters and firefighters are the first pillar of defence of every small settlement. So as we can see from these laws, there are many deeper problems that will need proper organisation to solve, so we expect the Fire Department that will have to deal with 65 public fire departments, somewhere around 1800 voluntary fire departments, there are some 40 000 firefighters in good fire companies to ensure their education, their medical examination because that's all for local self-government units and that the system can be effective and that the MUP through its directorship could really know at all times how many operating forces are available. Now it's hard to say because it happens and I've had a lot of opportunities to see that because of the lack of funds, firefighters just don't go to medical examinations. Finally, to mention the profession, Djakic also spoke about the Croatian Mine Action Centre's remarks and their union opposed such separation because it is certain that the Republic of Croatia has reached an enviable level and expertise and skills in this regard, and that it should not really happen that everything that has been created for years that these changes are not now, that I do not use the hard word, destroy it, but that, as the trade unions announced, 80% of people go into retirement because they can no longer act in this system. Of course, when it comes to the profession, it is radiological and nuclear security, so all that needs to be reconciled because political ministries and political decisions are one thing and the rules and representation of the profession are something else, and in that sense a common language should be found. To conclude, there is certainly a need to support the rationalisation of the public administration but what remains as a questionnaire is whether we really will have a system that will be more organisationally, operationally capable, which will be more effective because these savings of one million and 500 000 kuna can ultimately be shown as barren savings, i.e. savings or bear service to society, savings which will generate much more costs later. As far as I have seen from the proposal for the Ministry of Directorates at the Ministry of Interior that instead of the 21st County branch, there will be 5 regional branches and, in that sense, it may contribute to increasing savings but operationally whether people on the ground, especially the leaders of local self-government units, will have better contact and fulfil all the tasks that are on them. It is therefore not good for these measures to be only short-term measures that sound good to the PR-ovski to achieve certain savings and in the long term to remain the consequences of the organisation and ineffectiveness of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120789	Thank you, too, Comrade Sagar. The next colleague is Branimir Bunjac, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. A colleague of Bunjca does not have the right to talk about this agenda in accordance with Article 233. We're moving on. Next on behalf of the HSS Representatives' Club, counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please welcome colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120790	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretaries with an associate, here is a welcome to welcome you on behalf of the HSS Club and a few sentences on these proposed laws amending a number of agencies and the key question is whether we need political points or an effective system, a functional system. From what we've heard, it seems to me that more important political points, the government's conclusion must be carried out, reforms in which there is no reform, there must be savings that are not savings, because we have heard that these are savings from a million, a million and a half kuna, and the costs that will result from this opening statement, reforms that are not reform are questionable that certain costs will rise,... and what we all need to be interested in together is a functional system of protection and rescue, functional civil protection and what is the place and role of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Civil Protection Act of 2015 established this institution with the aim of strengthening this civil protection system, protecting citizens, protecting their property and managing the system by units of local self-government, regional self-government to the state level. I dare say that for 8 years I was Chief of Staff in Brod-Posavina County, so I have some experience, and we have had two very difficult crisis situations, that we just needed to strengthen this system and make it functionally better. The more I think about it, the more I think it's up to me and our HSS that the State Department for Protection and Rescue should have raised to the level of the central state office, because in situations of flood crisis, environmental disasters, etc. who manages the crisis, whether it will now be the MUP or the Croatian Army or civil protection. The EU has asked us to build a strong civil protection system and that is why the State Protection and Rescue Authority was established to coordinate this system and manage crises. We think this is a step backwards, that by joining the State Protection and Rescue Administration with the MUP, there will be a further stalemate in the development of a civil protection system and the inability of certain activities. First of all, we think of further development of the civil protection system through strengthening and the number of people on the ground through the operational civil protection forces in municipalities, cities and counties, and we do not think that this merger is necessary because they were representatives of the Ministry of Civil Protection and co-ordinated activities together with local and regional self-government. And nothing could have been done at the local level until it was called the National Protection and Rescue Authority and what to do. Well, the proposer himself sees that this is a special kind of business that is not a corbisno of the MUP and therefore foresees the establishment of a special Directorate for Civil Protection. And these 30 people who, who have been designated department chiefs or highly-ranked officials entering the MUP system, will again take care of the same or similar salaries in that department, there are no large savings and all 630 employees of the State Protection and Rescue Authority are switching to the MUP. And since they will, on the basis of that, demand certain rights under the Collective Treaty, as both police officers and officials have, likely your costs will only rise. So we don't see that savings, and we're in an operational situation because within the civil protection system, we wanted to be operational and faster and to have a step ahead of others, for example. We included radiomate associations, because precisely in these crisis situations when 5,000 people were volunteering for firemen, HGSS, civilian associations on the backlogs and defending Slavonia from the floods, we simply broke all our mobile connections, and we included radiomate associations to communicate with the field and proved ourselves good. The question is, will the associations now be able to participate in these affairs? We've included divers, an association of divers from Slavonski Brod who's done a fantastic job, we've also got some equipment for them, the question is what's going to happen. We also used associations of technical culture, because they also have certain technical skills that we needed, we used other civil society associations, because when you evacuate them, people need food and accommodation and psychosocial help. It is questionable whether these associations will be able to continue to participate in these affairs and how this will be resolved, especially the issue of withdrawing EU funds. We were active, so we reported one project together with the town of Šapec, which also had problems with the flood from the Sava River and we received 3 million kunas for the purchase of equipment and we and they, the question is whether at this point the State Administration for Protection and Rescue within the MUP will be more able to run for such competitions and whether we will be able to withdraw funds from the EU because we ourselves know that we do not have enough equipment, that by setting up our independent democratic free state of Croatia, unfortunately that system of civil protection from the former state is simply neglected and destroyed and simply did not know where the blankets are, or where there are any other equipment for protection and rescue. And we used what had voluntary fire companies, and a lot of these equipment got killed, the simple question of how these units would be further equipped, who would coordinate and who would conduct education. Because the fact has already been said here and it should be repeated that the mayors of the municipalities and we in the county didn't have enough knowledge of protection and rescue simply by force of the law we were put in that position to carry out these activities. And he needs professional people, he needs equipment, whether the M.O.P. will be able to do this from a budget like this that they're supposed to do any further, or if the local self-government units will be left to themselves. And what should also be said when drawing up plans to protect and rescue or civil protection plans in order to make one real risk assessment you need different data from different state bodies. There were a lot of problems in getting this information and that information, I think that this must be better coordinated and allowed units of local and regional self-government to get it free and hasty from the state authorities and I think that, because of them I had to say it because they all approached making their own plans and implementing their own units. Also, here I want to touch the Croatian Mine Action Centre and here I thank all people who were active within the CROMAC because the fact is that we have demined a large part of Croatia, that they have done well, and unfortunately I have to say that we have had protests here by employees from companies who have done demining because they were not respected by their labour contract rights, from a collective contract. And with this removal of CROMAC and association with the Ministry of the Interior, perhaps in a certain way and we help these people to have a resolved working status, where they will have a working contract and where they will have the status of civil servant and subsistence. However, the question is whether we will be able to gain operational quality that the rest of Croatia is mined and the question is how they will be able to perform outside Croatia. Because they should be commended and praised by a large number of countries where they showed up to... and deminings and as experts but also equipment and machines that our companies designed to demining where we received positive reactions and where machines are ordered... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that we should continue to develop this as an independent service and strengthen that it was one of the advantages of Croatians where we could help and earn on these jobs both outside of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here is my wish that, in the announcement and implementation of these reforms, real analyses are made of how much costs and how much savings are made, and that it does not turn out in the end that because of the million-and-a-half kuna, the advisory agricultural forestry service, the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the State Protection and Rescue Authority also saves by one million-and-a-half kuna, and ultimately to show that only the cost of writing new solutions to the internal structure regulations, changing the signboards and hiring those experts on other jobs, increase costs and far more than one million-and-a-half kuna savings. Let's be reasonable, let's not implement policies called reform just for political points but make Croatia more able to protect property and citizens in Croatia especially when we see that both the European Commission and the EU are paying more attention and giving and more resources in the coming period will be allocated to security, for the military, for the Schengen, and we here have this service that has worked well, which needs to be further upgraded and this civil protection system is taking a step back. And we'll be against this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120791	Thank you, colleague Vlaović, we continue the debate on behalf of the club of representatives. Next is a colleague, Stjepan Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120792	Thank you, Vice President. So, given these past few weeks as well, we have proposals, final draft laws that are primarily more of a technical nature, functional and all with the aim of reducing the number of agencies, i.e. the rationalisation of the system of legal persons with public powers... type or cancel them, attach them to the central body, actually where they are in some budgetary position approximately less, more in 90% of the cases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, what are the goals of this being? I think we've all looked at public reports a lot about some number of agencies that no one knows what they're doing, where people pile up, crowds up executive staff, duplicates, with someone I can always tell by the sound of some kind of curiosity, if that's what I can say, because I don't think that people who do these jobs are even being arrested. And now a decision has been made. And the truth and God's political decision to get involved and we're all always yelling we're for reform, but don't start from us, not us, not that, but to reform. The objective here must be extremely clear, there must be increased efficiency, savings that I think are undeniable, i.e. should be undeniable because when we look at the director, secretaries, drivers, accounting services, or departments, legal departments, security guards, departments of procurement, cleaners, janitors, capacities in general is whether they have these EU writing agencies and all these times 54. And surely there are duplications, not certain, but unmistakable. And I'm sure that out of that crowd of people and here what I've read can be between 50 and 100 people, so times 54 that it can be half redistributed, that money can be rerouted to what's important, to what's important, to what's function and purpose, to the equipment, to the operational business, to the people that make it all exist. Because if it stays only in this administration then they haven't really done much, but this is the first step. And I've also asked in the replica of the transitional provision for six months whether it's enough or not to comply with the laws. I didn't mention any renting of space, or any other expenses, fixed and other of the telephony, since the unification of public procurement, etc. So all this makes sense if the ultimate goal is better, better quality, more accessible services that these bodies provide to our citizens. And the winners of this whole thing must be citizens to win and that is the basis of every state administration for as little money as possible. It's a mantra that should always be run, as little money as possible, as much service as possible. Because in the end, as our people say, it doesn't matter which cat is better, it's important to hunt mice. So it doesn't matter what it's called, whether it has a board, whether it's a director or a director of a department or a management department or anything, it's important what the results are and it's important how they do their job. What I would just like to point out here is that exactly what we're talking about and what we're talking about means the measures and activities in the civil protection system are carried out by the following operational forces of the civil protection system. So we have the headquarters of civil protection, the operational forces of the fire department, the operational forces of the Croatian Red Cross, then the HGSS operational forces, associations, troops and civil protection commissioners go to... the right persons in the civil protection system, etc., etc. the authorities of local state self-government, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we here from all of this listed in this system is HGSS and these other legal bodies, i.e. the State Protection and Rescue Authority, all of this remains. Let me get this straight. And so far they've been funded, who paid? From the Home Office position. So there's no big change in taking someone's money, etc. I'll say it one more time, if that's what it's gonna be. the goal to be fulfilled and it is a better quality service, to move the money to equipment, to faster notification systems, to surveillance, to organization, then it is, I don't think anyone can say anything against it. And the HNS Club will support that, and we'll ask for six months. Where we are because I don't know if we can make it all in six months. But that period and that transition must be made impeccable, because it cannot happen and cannot, that because of these administrations, that someone cannot sign something, does not know whose authority it is, etc. etc. which can happen many times in our bureaucracy. A reduction in red tape, an increase in operationals, that must be g. reform. A more efficient system, less money, more and better service for citizens, and therefore the HNS Club will all such intentions, including these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120793	Thank you. That's how we ended the debate on behalf of the clubs, we proceed with an individual debate, next is colleague Miro Bulj, in accordance with Article. In 233nd, Bulj lost his right to speak on the subject, followed by Sasa Djujic, and in accordance with the same article, Djujic lost the right to talk about these agenda points. Next up is a colleague, Marko Vesligaj, in accordance with Article. 233 and he loses the right to talk about these points of the agenda. After a colleague of the Vesligai, a colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, she's here to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120794	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have today brought together 3 laws based on the 2008 National Reform Programme and, in accordance with the Action Plan, implemented public administration strategies for the period 2017-2020 on building a more efficient public administration. So, by the government's decision of August this year on the reduction of the Agency's wrinkles, institutions and institute funds, it started in this reshuffle. Of course we're all about reducing the administration, but not at the expense of efficiency, especially these services we're talking about today. So here, I will have in this debate a few small questions, whether the plan is a unique number, by joining these services in the Republic of Croatia, i.e., that the operators of all these emergency services and police, Croatian medical services will sit together in the operational centre and use one number. Because some European countries have already introduced a unique number for all emergency services, there are Denmark Finland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Sweden, and probably a lasting trend will continue in other European countries. So in this way of merger I expect to get a faster joint reaction from the emergency services, of course we are all talking about receiving these centres today means by joining them we expect that there will be a cheaper way of getting information equipment and also technological development we know that it is very demanding and expensive, but by investing together in these centres we hope that new more modern equipment will be obtained that will provide better opportunities for the operation of these operational services, faster and more precise reactions, and with that, more. saved lives, which is, of course, the role of these services, both in daily accidents in those traffic and in the protection against fires, and in major accidents, such as flood disasters, fires and technical technological accidents. In the area of Brod Posavina County 193 the number 112 has been redirected since the age of 10 means all calls, all interventions have gone beyond that number and it has really worked impeccably in those 8 years, and I sincerely hope that this merger will continue this coordination and that this system will be upgraded, and that it will get a faster and more efficient way of working. We hope that by saving this merger, the money will be rerouted to better equipment, education, and to the efficiency of these services. We're all talking about public administration to reduce red tape, to increase efficiency, and of course when we get to this, then most of the meanings are shared in that opinion. And I welcome this way of working, of course I expect a faster, more efficient public service, i.e., that we expect that only by joining this will improve the way you work in the Republic of Emergency Services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120795	Thank you. We have six replicas, at the last minute. So the first one's a colleague of Ostojic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120796	Dear colleagues of 112 no longer will be, we are so much to tell you and that's all I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120797	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120798	Thank you, Mr. Ostojić, I asked if, so I didn't ask if it would continue to work with number 112, but whether it would be a common number, of course it would be some other number, but a common number for these emergency services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120799	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120800	Thank you. My colleagues, you know best, because you've been working with us on civil protection, at headquarters, how much the contribution to the defence against the floods has also been made by fire, but also by the State Administration for Protection and Rescue through the service of 112 and that haste number. Well, now, through this announcement, we're planning to set up regional centres, so we're probably gonna lose that in our county. I believe that you were also going to say that you are against the Office of the State Administration, or the State Administration for the Protection and Rescue of 112 cancellations and that it is dislocated from Slavonski Brod because it is important that we can have operational, effective civil protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120801	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120802	Thank you. Coliga Vlaović, we have witnessed you and I, especially when there have been major floods in our area in Brod-Posavina County, as much as this service has helped, have been effective but I sincerely hope that this merger will make it even more effective and that, of course, it will go into the modernisation and introduction of new technology that is everywhere in Europe and, of course, we will probably bring efficiency and a faster reaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120803	There's a colleague named Babic next, please. After him, colleague Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120804	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Maximchuk, both before you and while you were saying, some colleagues said that we are transparent, that we are talking about public administration reform, we have announced this today when we are talking about uniting certain agencies through the ministries and my opinion that parallelisms have never been good and that we are going for better efficiency. And you asked yourself in part, given that certain services work very well and that they have received excellent results and that they have formed themselves and that they actually have a time in which they have proven themselves, there is a certain fear and worry that this will continue to work in this way, and I believe that they will and that this expedition should not be left out of what you actually said at the end of your presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120805	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120806	Thank you. Comrade Babiæ, of course, we all expect it to be faster and more efficient for this service because none of us are meant to go backwards. So we expect functionality, speed and, of course, that in a few months we'll be able to testify in order to verify whether that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120807	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, and then a colleague of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120808	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues, you have begun in your individual debate in a way that you have said that you are basically satisfied with the way it works today, that you are pleased that your experience speaks in favour of it. I have to admit, I don't understand why something that works so well, we're going to change. For the simple reason you're already changing, which is why you're going to cancel, this is a number, but it's going to be another number, it's going to take a time to adjust, so no matter what the final result is after 4 or 5 years if we figure it out, but if we have something good, what's the point of this change? Because we're doing something, because someone remembered? So your debate moved me to that thought just to know what the point of change is. If the purpose of the change is to know that we have an analysis that something will be better, yes, but we have no analysis than all refer to the government's conclusion of 2 August 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120809	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120810	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, because of the efficiency of the faster and better way of command, yes, I did say, and indeed in my county this service has done an excellent job when it comes to floods in Brod-Posavina County, I thank them for that, but we expect by joining that we will get an even better management, more efficient, faster and I don't think we should start doubting them now, I hope they will justify this way of work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120811	Thank you. Next up is a colleague, Uncle, then a colleague of Shucker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120812	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Maximchuk, we have witnessed that lately there have been more and more disasters, elemental disasters not only with us but also in the world. We were lucky there weren't any human lives or tragedies. To make the system as effective as possible, of course it's inside, as they say, under one hat. And that's why it's important that all the services of protection and rescue are in one institution and it's the police who first always gets the information that they can react in time. It is important in time to react, to get out in the field as soon as possible, to save the property and lives of our citizens with as few people as possible and as little financial resources as possible. And I think that's exactly the main guideline of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120813	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120814	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Strick, so I understand the adoption and unification of these services, that they will be faster and more effective and that they will of course act faster because they will have a unique command so that they hope to achieve their goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120815	Thank you. And fellow Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120816	Thank you very much. Comrade Maximchuk, perhaps the most important thing here is to stress that in crisis situations it is most important in those first moments to know who is managing and coordinating. And this is all going in the direction of it. When the trouble is at the Croatian Mine Action Centre, who is first? The Home Secretary, they came to talk to him and everything. However, I would remind all my colleagues and colleagues of August 1, 1991. Mr. Back then, just to unite all services, to be more efficient were the crisis headquarters where there was also a police commander, there was also civil protection, it was territorial defense, they were the head of the city's administration, and that system worked, that system was all these crisis situations from the exiles further regulated practically until the 5th of May. '92. Mr. when the defence minister actually took over the government of the Republic of Croatia. This shows us when you put everything on one pile when you coordinate that it is then efficient and good and then it is given will be technically and better equipped and will certainly be achieved... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120817	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120818	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Shuker, yes, I remember that time and we know that there were no such orders from the place, I don't even know how everything would end up. A large number of refugees, so all those war horrors came from that one center and we see how advanced that was. Of course, I also said in my discussion that I expect that by bringing all this together, that part of the money will be saved, invested in the equipment, and that they will be more functional, faster, more efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120819	Thank you for continuing with the individual debate. Next is counterpart Ranko Ostojic, a fellow member of the staff of Ostojić's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120820	I thank Mr. Vice President, I will remind you once again, and this is that in the field of the civil protection system and all protection and rescue segments, a comprehensive review of the existing state of ability to threaten and risk will be proposed by a harmonised model of capacity building. This will cover the possibility of responding to daily needs for regular action, emergency situations, disasters, crisis conditions on land and sea. According to this review, I stress, the development of civil protection will continue, Croatian fire communities, Croatian red cross, Croatian mountain rescue services and other actors at the state, regional, local level and will develop coordinated action during disasters and major accidents with the assurance of independence in regular action. This National Security Strategy was adopted here in this Croatian Assembly and it was of course written when it was adopted. What we have today is exactly this proposal going to end this. So, the intentions made in the strategy, the strategic document, are forgotten just by these amendments to the law. Once again, I say, and this is to ensure independence in regular action, this should be a key form of increasing resilience, involving the population in the civil protection system and encouraging citizens' willingness to assist each other and a culture of solidarity as the first part of the response after disaster and disaster. The MUP will now take care of the meaning in the new district, and that's what we'll be hearing about tomorrow, but among other things, it will issue nuclear performance permits, just a few details, I'll say, it will address the standards of methods to monitor protection against ionising radiation, the ministry will carry out all other professional and administrative tasks related to monitoring of these wastes, nuclear waste, analysis of the security of ionising radiation, nuclear security contractors, not to say everything that's going on under the MUP right now. It is not just a question of this part that should have been referred to independently, independently and should have been acted precisely in a way that strengthens the civil sector. We ended up getting exactly what we were expecting to be solved after 2015 the main objectives were depolitisation, decentralisation and demilitarisation. It's all gone. Right now we have politicization, we have of course centralised, and we have teachingly further militarization in which we expect those non-governmental associations of the community, including the Red Cross, the HGSS, etc. be an integral part of one ministry, so when we finally go to it if we're going to put it all under one hat, so why do we even have a MUP, let's put it all under one minister together, let the military, the police, the repressive system, customs whatever you want, be just one minister in the state. That's not the way. And that's why I think it's very important here to say that what's waiting for us tomorrow and the consequences that will be brought behind this, among other things, I'm going to say one thing, and that's the story of saving, so tomorrow we have a situation where the Croatian Fire Department becomes the central body of the state administration. This is where we sell the story of abolishing the State Administration for protection and rescue, and now we will be in a position for the Croatian Fire Department to become the central body of the state administration. At the proposal of the Croatian Fire Department, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall appoint a chief fire commander. That's what gets through the little door, I say tomorrow we'll be able to see if what I'm saying is true because it's in the proposal to change the system of state administration, and here it would take me at least half an hour to read what everything the MAP needs to do right now. I will say one more thing, and that is that the issue of a particular 112, then we were proud of a single system that could unite all of this expensive international number is, the EU has it, of course there will be no more. And there's no doubt that now this process that goes after us to bring back a different system, which is that you with one number get all those services in a hurry, we'll forget about it. Everything that's been put into that story we'll forget. All that we expected this unique system to bring will no longer be and, of course, urgent medical care among other things disappears from this story. Well, it's not the Home Secretary who's gonna take care of the emergency medical services, that's it. I'm not going to use maybe even the end of this debate time, although this much more, but I don't think it's a good situation in which the form is being done, which is to implement some kind of plan, which is the reform plan that has been made, the action plan point 1.3. of abolishing agencies and so on, to put it ahead of the situation, which is the National Security Strategy, something that is brought in this assembly by qualified majority, in which it was clearly said not so long ago that we're going to have exactly the strengthening of this system in this way as it is written, and all these bill proposals go contrary to what the strategy says. But I am not surprised because among other things I will remind you of something else, and that is, here is what we will be done with our session in a few days, once a year the Government of the Republic of Croatia will report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Security Strategy. And actually I have to apologize is not true that we haven't been informed, here we have been informed of how the National Security Strategy is changing, we've received an answer, and it's forget this paper that's won by a qualified majority and we'll do what we want, the strategy doesn't apply to the government of the Republic of Croatia that proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120821	Thank you. At your presentation we have four replicas, the first colleague Djakić, followed by his colleague Stričak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120822	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, colleague Ostojić, you listed that as a priority in the national strategy, so I would say that the very system of Homeland Security recognized and detected the problems and shortcomings that are in the existing operating system. It's hard to explain that we have several operational and communications centres in the ER, in 112, at the MUP, and I don't know where else, in the fire department. What makes 4 alarming, reporting, or using those who need to help endangered citizens when all of this can work impeccably, new, technological opportunities and those who are well-trained, educated and who use it to truly benefit the citizens. Clearly, you are speaking contrary to what was actually established in the Homeland Security system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120823	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120824	Dear fellow Djakic, on the contrary, precisely number 112 should have been a unique place for you to get all the emergency services. So it's set up, 112 activates both firefighters and just as much anyone who needs an emergency service. The Homeland Security Act system is one thing, what we're talking about is that the National Security Strategy and the intensity that was around the National Protection and Rescue Administration was a unique number used in Europe 112, it will now disappear, it will remain as I said, all those numbers that citizens will have to learn again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120825	Thank you. The next replica is colleague Angelko Strick, followed by colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120826	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Ostojić, you were the 2015 Police Minister when our country was hit by the biggest crisis since the Homeland War and this is a crisis situation with migrants. 670,000 migrants have passed through Croatia. On the eve, the police were taking care of it. All the other services and the Red Cross and civilian protection and emergency services have helped. At the time, no one was talking about militarization, so I'm surprised that you are today saying that this is the introduction to militarization. So the chief carrier of all activities at the time was the police who should be congratulated on that, professionally doing the job without any threat to our inhabitants. our citizens and economies, or tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120827	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120828	Comrade Strick, it's absolutely incorrect what you're saying, the government of the Republic of Croatia, by its decision, has appointed the Minister of the Interior at the time, it was me, as head of crisis management for the crisis. The State Administration for Protection and Rescue was the main carrier, based on their demands the military came, the police were doing their part of the job and there was the records, the registration of persons who were in the illegal passage. Thus, at that time 26,8,000 state officials were co-ordinated by exactly that headquarters, not in a way that only the police did it. Therefore, I was grateful to everyone for this, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue was the main holder of the construction of all the reception centres, the management, the search and after all, led all the affairs and the transport and arrangements with the military and therefore the incorrect information they had said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120829	Thank you. Next is counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash and after colleague Anka Mrak-Taritaš is a colleague of Vlaović, please welcome colleague Anka Mrak-Taritaš.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120830	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Ostojić, you mentioned one topic that I think is very important and very important. On the one hand, we see a sign in the paper, a reduction in the number of civil servants, on the other hand we see that it's always about decentralisation and then you get these three laws that speak absolutely the opposite. These 3 laws speak of increasing civil servants so they will increase by some number of 650, so there is no reduction but there is a word of increase and there is also a decentralisation and only one convenient word we use in this House, which we would like to really see that centralization, centralization in one point, in one center of power, is one way and that all of what we are actually declaring through the amendments and additions to the laws that we get from this government is actually quite the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120831	Thank you, too. Here you go, buddy, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120832	I thank my colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. I must stress that I agree exactly with your findings, nor will we receive savings, nor will we get what we have achieved through the 2015 reform and what is most important, we deviate from those main rules that were and these were the reasons for which we entered the EU, for which we then accepted the very standards that are deleted from these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120833	And the last replica, Kolega Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120834	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Ostojić, you said, these changes to the nose law in line with the national security strategy but are already in line with the law. Now it doesn't matter that it doesn't make sense, it matters that it's in accordance with the law. The number 112 has just been uniting all the emergency services, recording conversations, coordinating activities, and it has shown in the crisis situations of experience that we have, has proved to be very good. To put an end to it, now going back to the way it was, it doesn't make any sense to me again. You said you needed to establish a new ministry that would coordinate crises, I suggest that this ministry be called the Ministry of Logic and let them be as expensive as Stjepan Radic collects in the villages of smart people, so let's make them give laws inside that will be logical, enforceable and longer-term operational. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120835	Answer, here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120836	Very briefly, you are absolutely right, this will not contribute to any operationality, I claim that all of these services will now be the last hole in the playbook at the Ministry of Internal Affairs that has priorities completely different from what the civil sector should have and these are the reasons why I think it is very important that we remain in that situation, which is that we build up the civil sector, decentralisation and strengthen NGOs from the HGSS, strengthening the red cross that certain laws are going to limit these precisely in the ability to be even participants of civil protection in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120837	Thank you. And the last individual debate is a colleague of Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120838	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. It is before us as we have agreed to discuss three laws, three laws defining a different way of working civil protection, radiological and nuclear security and mine action. And that is all, the reason is, the government has made a decision to cut down on the number of agencies, funds, institutions, and it made a decision in August to reduce 54 funds and institutions agencies. And now I really feel like there was a list of all these bodies and then this is how it sat down at the table and it was regulated, this out, this out, this out, this could stay out, this out. And we do have examples that show that it's just not a good way, it's not a good methodology. If you want to make one reform, if you want to make changes, then you need to know what the point is and what the goal of these changes is. Is the meaning and purpose of these changes to finally say that we have done something, that we have reduced the number by 54 or the purpose of the change is to get something faster, better, more efficient and clearer with clearer elements. So, there are three reasons that are listed here, one reason is savings, for that saving how much we don't know, another reason is that we're going to reduce the number of people we're not going to reduce people, you're just transferring people from one basket to another basket and introducing a mess. And the third reason is that here we'll get a better procedure. As I said in the replica of my esteemed colleague Ostojić, so we need to know what we want. We here from the pay phone whether from a pay phone or from a place we rely very often and talk about decentralisation. Our mouths are full of decentralisation, but when you see any law, any regulation that is before us is not so. This way everything will happen in the ministry. And you know as well as I do, when you go into anything like this, it'll be half a year until they're new tables while they're new solutions, while people are in new jobs, while you get them out of one administration to another administration. And I absolutely can't understand why it wasn't meant to be better, to be more efficient, to be clearer and to define things more clearly, no, we decided to put those three things in the ministry. That ministry will already have a number of people, and I think it will be a ministry where the minister will need one coordinator who will lead it in the first place and coordinate where, which is how and how it is done and who does what. It's not a job. If we had an analysis of the current situation here, if we had some kind of goal and some meaning, then we could say, okay, I might disagree with some elements, or we disagree with some elements in a particular club, but we agree with the meaning, we agree with the ultimate goal. We can't see the ultimate goal here. One of the things, so 112 is something the kids learned, which the kids in kindergarten and school know, we say forget it, we'll have another number and we'll get to another number. I can't understand me in this country as if we were cursed. Something that works well and we're good, there's no way we're going to get better, that's what we're going to do, and we're going to go over it again. Why do we have to go from the beginning? Why do we have the feeling that every government that comes in, works and designs a way of operating the state over and over again? Why don't we move on where someone left off? Why every time there's anything good we'll end it, it won't be because it's much better for us and it's simpler for us. So these three things that are about mine action, that part, I think, were very little about it. It would be interesting to see how many other areas of Croatia to mine, why they cannot stay in a special body, why they have to go there. So answer me these questions why, very simple question why we no longer have the way we operate now. We didn't get an answer but we'll make a mess, we won't know who's responsible anymore, we won't know who's going where. When it comes to radiological and nuclear security, where the minister is in charge of health care because it was otherwise in his jurisdiction. What's going to happen here? So there's a series of strangers and you don't have an answer for why. In doing so, we will also have tomorrow or the day after tomorrow another body that is abolished, when that body was established, and I will discuss it tomorrow, then it has to be established because the European Commission, or because of the withdrawal of funds. Now we end it without our consent there. So the European Commission thinks it's possible, but I'll talk about it tomorrow. Finally, if you take a step further, if this step is any improvement, if that improvement is going to be given you will get both consent and this part of the assembly, i.e. the consent of the opposition. But if you declare decentralization and our eyes see that centralization, if you declare that you are reducing the number and mathematics is a very exact science that shows that you are not reducing the number but is increasing the number, if you declare that you believe me it will be better so why would someone believe that if what we have today works, let's see in the parts that don't work and let's improve those parts that don't work, and not work to work, that eventually you could come to Chief Plenkovic and say, here's the precedent you said 54 we're ending 14.12. 54 abolished, that's not a job. You don't do work to do work, you do business with purpose, with an idea, with a desire to get better. This is just not going to be better, and we already know at this point, you're not going to work for a while, you're going to make a mess, you're going to make a mess and by vertical and by horizontal, it's going to take some time to put in order and just see wonders, here's some new choices, and here we are, hoping for one new government and one other option, which will then spend both time and energy to make what you've ruined and make a bad return to the old one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120839	Thank you. At your presentation, we have three replicas, first colleague Ante Babic, after him colleague Mladen Madjer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120840	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritaš, therefore, we are a highly centralised country, and we have often spoken in this House that as far as reform and public administration are concerned, we need to take significant steps and significant cuts, not only in rationalization, but also in efficiency. You are expressing your skepticism today, and you were a minister yourself, and I have often listened to you in the Croatian Parliament, and when you look at you as a minister, so you are elected, you are elected by the people, and from that parliamentary majority you have become a minister and then you have agencies, for example, as parallelisms. So I don't believe that what the agencies were doing so that they wouldn't be working for you just then. Then there were about 46 agencies, five funds, 17 institutions and so on. I don't believe why some institutions should be abolished, and why some institutions shouldn't be able to function so well in your ministries and just... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120841	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120842	Thank you very much. So I can agree with you that there are some things that can be lifted, but you can't all. You can't take paper and scribble in a way that you don't know what's going on. The State Office for Spatial Development was abolished on Friday. The only one of all EU countries that does not have a state institution will be Croatia. And it didn't bother anyone. The more the solution is, I'll try to tell you in 30 seconds what it's like. Can you imagine at the Ministry of Health doing, say, a dentist, who in the morning gives consent to someone to open a dental office, and in the afternoon he moves the curtain and has a table on which he repairs his teeth. You can't. That's exactly what happened. In the morning, they will agree on the plans of others, municipalities, materials, counties, and will build their own plans in the afternoon. We need to know what we want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120843	Thank you. Next is a colleague of Mladen Madjer, followed by counterpart Tomislav Lipoščak. Here's your colleague, Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120844	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Anka Dark Taritash, you have noted in your statement that it is bad when something works well and when we go to end it. When we talk about decentralisation, we go back to centralised. You said that this reform, that it would cause a mess in the practical functioning of the system, that it would be not a real reform, but it would be called a reform mess and probably again in centralization, a system that was once good, the elimination of a new one just to collect probably political points, and that can be said, we abolished a certain system, and by me, here again, I stress that this is a reform disorder, not a reform right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120845	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120846	My dear colleague, I can absolutely agree with you. A few times from this place from this pay phone, we emphasized and emphasized, you need to know what the ultimate goal is and the ultimate meaning. It can't be the ultimate goal and the point of saying we started with 112 we're really talking about from the sleeve that the numbers are about and now we have 54 less. Something really may be united, something can take over as well as the Ministry, but it's not the meaning of the Ministry of Human Accumulation, it's not the point that I'm really dealing with everything and everything. If we want to advocate real decentralisation, then a lot of jobs have to happen where problems arise. In cities, in counties, in the field. You from the ministry, from Zagreb, can't see all the problems on the ground. And just, all of this, I call it action, Christmas action, cut something down, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120847	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, please welcome fellow Liposchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120848	Thank you. My colleagues in the first place should also be commended for the work done by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which has actually achieved numerous successes in terms of this particular problem since its establishment in 1998. It would especially highlight the public application of Miss Portal, which has often facilitated but also saved many lives in the field of foresters, farmers, hunters, fishermen, and hikers and many other groups. Personally, I believe that taking over jobs by the ministry will not reduce efficiency and actually good work on the field CROMAC so far, but in response to your question, I would point out that there are 55 cities and municipalities left in 8 counties, which are partly under mines, and it is 365 km square, which are assumed to have been polluted with more than 30,000 mines, and that is mostly 96% of forest cases, and that's right. in mountainous mountain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120849	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120850	Thank you very much, thank you very much for this information. So that's a pretty good-looking piece of information I was expecting from the secretary of state that maybe he'll say the introduction to what's left, which is what's left of the job and everything else. But listen to what you said, you said the same thing, we have something that worked well, and now who is this general desire, which is... Which is the idea, if something works, why would it do it right, let's do some kind of mi-maj, and we'll make sure they don't work too well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it can't be all in the same denominator, it can't be all the same way, it has things that suffer and reorganize and reduce, it has things that don't suffer, this is one of them things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120851	Thank you. Now we have two final applications on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The first application was by counterpart Ranko Ostojic on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club final. Here's my colleague Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120852	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The emphasis is that there are currently a large number of legal entities in the Republic of Croatia with the public authority of the agency type whose work is overlapping. That kind of intensity might come up with, say, I don't think there's any better overlap between the Security Intelligence Agency and the Ministry of the Interior or the Police Department. If we're going to make that logic, then why isn't it connected? Why hasn't SOA been sent back to the Home Office? So, this is just throwing of course dust into the eyes under cover of alleged savings, reforms and so forth, because all of this expensive thing that is happening, among other things, I have to stress finally, before what I said before, which is that the Ministry of the Interior is now going to take over all of the jobs, and the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security, the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, including the Affairs of Fire Department, but not the Affairs of Fire Department. This is very interesting, because behind this, this means next, there will be a new central body of state administration, which starts with work from now on, no matter what its intention is to be put into office in 2020, and that is the Croatian Fire Department. It should become the central body of the State Fire Department in 01.01.2020, however, in the meantime, the Croatian Fire Department will already begin these activities, of course the Minister of Interior, according to future consequences when we adopt these laws and when we change the structure, will be in a position to address the issue of power, responsibility for the new fire commander, hence the story of depolitisation and so on, which we have at least achieved to the State Protection and Rescue Authority, become a place where people are professional, who should do the job, care and prepare for long-term planning and rescue situations. Now this is how the Ministry of Home Affairs, which should normally be taken care of, I'll just say a few allegations, and that's what's new about what should be in the Ministry of the Interior's department's department's department's in charge directly, because there's no intended variants that there's a special directorship. They will issue nuclear performance permits, provide radio-active waste, carry out activities related to the safety of radio-active sources of nuclear materials, nuclear facilities, radio-active waste, monitoring the safety of nuclear installations in the region and so on. It will provide dosimetric evaluations of exposure by analysing the radiation of exposed workers and the population, addressing the issue, meaning administrative and professional affairs, inspection tasks to monitor the implementation of the Law. So the Ministry will do it, and then at the same time they'll be their own inspector, it's a new perfect reform, according to this new model. At the same time, we will control the unauthorized transport of nuclear and other radio-active material, of course we will take over all those contracts that we have received so far and agreements on the protection of ionising radiation, nuclear safety, the application of protection measures and so on. Of course, the Ministry of Interior as its top priority will have co-operation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. It's the real job of the Home Office and I think it's one of the phenomenal things that's gonna happen. As regards the technical examination of the space including the classification of the space, installations will be examined, devices intended to work in areas at risk of explosive atmosphere. And so they don't think I'm making it up, they're gonna worry about gas, money, nebula and dust. Therefore, it is something that now goes to the Ministry of the Interior, as an important segment of future work. I think it's the best picture we've actually achieved with this false reform, a situation where we're supposed to remove a central body that should have been decentralised, demilitarized and in a situation that is depolitized over a certain period. Today we're getting a new situation, which is that we're going back to a bad picture, and I think the Ministry of the Interior is taking on a huge responsibility, and it won't be able to realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120853	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists final, colleague Marko Sladolev. Here's your colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's the final, the Most won't support this suspension. So we all know how dangerous and demanding and expensive the process, which has been committed for more than 24 years, through the Croatian Mine Action Centre, systematically for more than 20 years, it was founded in February 1998, by pyrotechnics, and how much life has been laid down for Croatian citizens living alongside mine suspected areas to continue to live and rule, freed areas for the benefit of all. Therefore, the approach chosen to implement the conclusion is completely wrong for all, because no basic organisational professions or organisational design methodology were used. This is argued by the fact that the employees of the MUP did not take the basic step of any reorganisation methodology, which is an analysis of the course of the business process and the scope of the business at the annual level, which is necessary to correctly determine the number of perpetrators needed as identifying the professional holders of special knowledge business whose loss is a huge organisational and information risk to continue operations. The only quality analysis can be made of these can be carried out by talking to workers, which is the task and obligation of the employer or the organisational part of human potential management. Such conversations with CROMAC employees so far have not been carried out which confirms our argument that the approach chosen to implement the conclusion is entirely wrong for all demining stakeholders as well. The second argument of harmfulness is carried out by the adoption of the law in accordance with the same law in Article 73(2) to amend the CROMAC's labour statute, which, from civil servants to civil servants without the consent of workers, has resulted in the application of the right to workers to whom the worker has not consented. It was sometimes done in the former Yugoslavia that after the Homeland War it should certainly remain a part of the past. Over the last 4 months, trade unions have made all necessary analyses in cooperation with professional services and have pointed to the possible consequences that will result from these on the arguments and actual indicators of unprepared and administrative and zero justified decision, all state bodies from the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia to the resolution ministries have been provided with analyses that point to anything bad that will happen to the demining system when the Croatian Parliament adopts this poor Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mine Action. The potential consequences and risks resulting from this decision are loss of employees, with years of experience in specific demining and mine action operations, the excerpts of expert personnel would lead to delays in carrying out demining operations resulting in financial losses for the RZ. The outflow of expert personnel would also jeopardise further development and maintenance of the mine information system, the loss of acquired contact with persons, particularly with returnees, has a crucial role in the status of CROMAC employees as public officials, as they have started to provide information only to make sure that employees are not employees of the MUP or Ministry of Defence and the loss of acquired rights of employees who are entitled to collective agreements by changing their status from public to civil servants. From all of this, therefore, the conclusion is MOST will not support this harmful law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120855	Next on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Pernar, final. Here's a colleague of Pernar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120856	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing nuclear security, but the storage of nuclear waste in the Chamber of Commerce in the municipality of Dvor if the local population does not want it to be in accordance with the fundamental principle, which is democracy. So if we live in democracy, then people should wonder if they want something or don't want it. We had a situation in Petrinja where it was hiding from citizens that a migrant centre was being built, where those who pointed out it, as spreaders of false news, was being accused, that in the end only ad hoc in one day would find out people there, hey, that's where the migrant center is being built. No one asked the population of Petrinja. You just do everything by force. It's the same thing that's happening on the Trade Mountain now. I must say that the site, which is intended only 2km from the BiH border and that the local population in BiH is also explicitly opposed to it. Unfortunately, in our system, I wouldn't call this democracy because I say most of the parliament that exists is now not elected to the elections, it's made up of political trade, it's concluded by kidnapping MPs among others and from our coalition. Such methods of governance, or such non-democracy, ultimately lead to what leads to a non-democratic decision-making process, is simply said to people in the Court, hear this will build a nuclear waste storage facility and you bark to the moon if you will. And so this time I urge all citizens of the Castle, Petrinja and Sisak-Moslavina County to ask themselves how good HDZ's policy is for them, whether HDZ is leading the policy they would like, and if the answer is not, to condemn it in the elections. Our desire to represent your interests, not the interests of HDZ, the HDZ unfortunately protects the interests of various lobbies in my court, starting with the banking lobby, to these Brusselsian ones as I would call them, those who send directives, and in fact our diplomats instead of the people they should be making, should have made foreign policy decisions actually turned into mailers and couriers. Sometimes, in NOB's time, the command would send an order, then the couriers would have these partisans share the news then, and others would have to execute them. Today we have a situation where there's a command called that. The JNA or NOB of Partisans what had already been replaced by the Brussels elite, replaced by the people of Washington, they're now sending orders, they're now sending directives, they're sending even laws to us for adoption by emergency procedure, and we're here without talking about all of it. When America says to impose sanctions on Russia, we introduce sanctions to Russia, when America says I don't know send soldiers to the Russian border, we have to send soldiers to the Russian border, send soldiers to Afghanistan, send them to Afghanistan, no Croatian citizens ask if they want to, no one asked them if they agree. When it was the purchase of F16 military planes for more than 3 billion kuna, which is very dubious, we also know today that it is very, still questionable even though most citizens were against it, the government simply says that we don't care. Then we have a situation with the introduction of EUR which will certainly lead to the collection of certain products, and no product will be cheap, citizens are also against it, we from the Living Wall are looking for a referendum, Plenkovic says you know that we will solve this problem, so we will not be doing a referendum, we will introduce it by force, even though 70% of the citizens are against the introduction of the EUR and that I say again, the non-democratic decision process has now broken down on citizens living in the municipality of Dvor, who are near the Chamber of Commerce and not a democratic decision if this, in my court, international and anti-national government continues to be in most, this agony, this breaking of the will of citizens across their knees and will continue. Cheers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120857	Thank you. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120858	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an officer has been injured. 232, and this is that the theme of the established agenda today was completely different from what counterpart Pernar was saying, can only talk about the subject under the established agenda, and if it were to go away to warn him that he had even gone away trying to, uh, level these couriers in NOB with the Brussels Directives, etc., I would only remind him that there were no such couriers and those Directives that he would not have anywhere to speak, nor would he have freedom today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120859	Thank you. So, by excise interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Pernar twice mentioned nuclear security in his speech, so I'm not going to give him a warning, but thank you. We now have the final name of the proposal, Mr Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120860	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Representatives and the Gentlemen Representatives. Rarely, the issue in the Croatian public is agreed on as a matter of more efficient, less and cheaper public administration. I think all political parties, all relevant institutions in the Republic of Croatia and the largest citizens agree on this issue. They say that public administration reform is the mother of all reforms and that has been said a lot lately and I have not noticed that there is a divergence between different political options. However, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the merger of certain bodies or agencies, then it is said of collecting political points, if the Government does not do so, then it is said of a government that has no courage. This government has decided to reduce the number, what we call the Agency, they bear different names, so here in this case, the Ministry is joined by a state-run administrative organization, a state-run administrative organisation of one of the central authorities of the state administration, so its employees are civil servants. One Institute is connected, therefore, to say in the broadest sense that the Agency is a public institution of the Croatian Mine Action Centre (CROMAC). The financial aspects of it are clear, but they are not decisive, they are not primary, but of course, they should be kept in mind. They are not large enough to bring about certain changes and reforms, but of course they should be kept in mind. We believe that in this particularly significant and important segment, which is security, therefore, the MUP is a fundamental body that cares about the security of the state, but it is not only and it is good that it is not only and there will still be some bodies that have to worry about it, and I will say something about it very briefly later. The number of agencies was large, he in some areas, this government decided to put an end to it and reduce the number of these agencies, I think they will say their citizens and that citizens support such measures. Because in this debate here, and a series of inaccuracies, I have to look back at them so that they don't come out in public as the truth. Most of these inaccuracies, I must say that the respected representative Ostojić said, one of them is to abolish the sign of civil protection, that sign is not lifted, it is nowhere to stand. The sign of civil protection has been a sign that has existed for decades, the Republic of Croatia has adopted it and will remain as its national sign, therefore, this international sign of civil protection. It is said that the Croatian Red Cross, which is a humanitarian organisation established by a special law and which has, among other things, part of its tasks and roles and in the widest system of civil protection security, is, for example, dog training, water rescue, etc., but the Red Cross has indeed a number of activities. He is now operating in the premises of the MUP, for example at the asylum seekers' shelter, there implementing a project to provide psychosocial assistance to asylum seekers. Therefore, no one is prohibited anywhere, however, and entry into state institutions if they implement certain projects that are compatible with the work carried out by a certain state body. There's been a speech of 1800 people on duty at the MUP and whether there's going to be an emergency number left, for emergency situations 112. Nowhere does it say that the number will be abolished, the number remains, the tendency is to adjust the other numbers and to continue to be the main number for emergency calls of citizens who need any emergency services. In fact, I think that at the time of the government that Mr Ostojic was vice president and minister, he is working together on some moves, which are going towards not giving no. 112 is not a unique number. So, the changed numbers that had the option until then, the firemen and the emergency service, and some new numbers of 192, 193, 194 formed. But that's the process and the goal is and the tendency is for all numbers to be abolished one day, i.e. 112 to be the main number from which all calls will be further channeled. When I answer to Mr. Standing, I only have one more thing to expire, he mentions, if there's anything to the SOA if there's a police department. But here I think it's about the rough knowledge of our legal but security system. SOA has certainly completely different jobs than the police department has, and that's not good, and even the job is to chase them. This would mean that there are trends that some powers of the SOA are attributed to the MUP, either by some regulation or by regulations, and this ministry, this government is not intending to act and will fight it. Mr Maras, mentioned the MIP budget, is increasing against the savings that are listed here in the reasoning of these three laws. That the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior have very broad powers, and we are all witnessing the migrant crisis, a significantly increased number of illegal migrations needed, more effective control of the state border and other tasks resulting from this, therefore general security is questionable and more equipment for these jobs requires better education of existing people. So either way, it's hard to cut funds while this kind of threat is going on. Mr. Vlaovic wrongly said that the State Protection and Rescue Authority was founded in 2015 10 years earlier in 1.1.2005 but in 2015 the Civil Protection System Act was passed which replaced the Protection and Rescue Act adopted in 2004. He also mentioned that some associations would be bypassed, not the Civil Protection System implies the operation of different components, some of which are established as associations. One of the most famous organizations is the HGS which no one of course intends to abolish, wants to, this government wants to encourage her work, but she is as in art. 2. The HGS law stands for a national professional and humanitarian organisation, which deals with rescue in non-accessible areas and in difficult weather conditions. Mr. Stjepan Curaj says that The goal must be the operationality of the system, I, therefore, make it my wish. And all of these financial savings, if there is no more quality system, more operational, will not win, so all of these changes will not get their result, and the adoption of these laws, according to the government, is the creation of a prerequisite for a better and greater operation of the overall system. So that's the answer to the esteemed MP Maximchuk, therefore, the unique no. 112 will not be abolished, and these changes will also contribute to the cheaper acquisition of operational equipment needed for these services. In the end, Mr Ostojic was still talking about decentralisation, decentralisation and demining, which these laws, which are proposed, are being abandoned. I've listed here only central authorities, any central state administration like DZUS, and these laws don't directly talk about decentralisation. I don't know where militarization can be seen here, but when it comes to depoliticalisation, depoliticalization is only obvious when certain laws suggest a government in which he is a member, in which you are a member or when he appoints people who are members of his party. So that's one cobweb that absolutely doesn't stand. Mrs. Mrak Taritash, who spoke about demining issues, and why CROMAC is abolished, is spoken of by a respected representative of Sladolev, who read the union's memo, in which he cornered. The truths therefore stood, and they were spoken to many times, and were explained to them, and their wages and their rights would not be reduced. I remind you once again, I said this intro, since 1.12 last year, a new collective agreement for demining operations has been brought in, where their salaries and everything else under jurisdiction have not been reduced, remains true, with a reminder that pyrotechnicians have supplements and 200 percent on pay. So more than that couldn't be done. It remains, of course, as 365 about a square mile [35 km] was said to be mined, on March 1, 2026, and we believe that in these remaining 7 years, it is realistic to demine about 50 slightly more than 50 square miles [50 sq km] a year. I also pointed out that CROMAC has 150 employees of whom 70 are with a pyrotechnics card. Therefore, they are persons who are overseeing or overseeing demining operations that I remind them to carry out authorised companies, through their pyrotechnicians trained by machines or trained dogs with guides. In the end, I think I'm the reason why these laws are proposed. This is a more efficient and efficient public administration, certain savings as well as retaining the efficiency and general security in the Republic of Croatia by corporateing certain services in the MUP. Finally, I will plead on the Government's amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, and the Government accepts the amendment to Article 3 of the Law by amending and supplementing the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120861	Thank you for the presentation. We have it on your line, Mr. Katic, i.e. at your final exhibition we have 4 replicas, first is a colleague of Misic and after him a colleague of Ostojić. Here's a colleague of Misic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120862	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Katic, Secretary of State, with an associate. Listening to the debates, so we see that whatever they did to me, someone would say it was wrong. So, therefore, these agencies that are shrinking as much as I consider important things, of course we need to be, we need to switch to the ministry and the rest, we need to be more efficient, so we have to do something better, with it likely to have major financial effects where in the state budget and the rest of that is going to cut some costs, which is very important. It's very important, you said it doesn't matter that much, but it's important, any money that stays, that we don't spend on something that doesn't need to stay and that 2 can be distributed into something we need. I also think the agencies don't know, about as much as I know there are a lot of them, even up to 180, we think it's necessary to reduce and solve it in a better direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120863	Thank you. Just a second, Mr. Bull. We will welcome the students and students of the Management School from Zagreb who have joined us, good afternoon and welcome. Comrade Bull, here you go. You've been looking for... [[Applause.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120864	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, I request a 10-minute recess to consult at which point after the final debate of the esteemed secretary where it is being shut down after many years since 1998. Croatian Mine Action Centre. We know that this process of system and demining will slow down, that simply what we have and what is very important and people who have demined, people who are working in the demining system have done a great deal, they are also facing a great deal of work, mainly in areas occupied in the Homeland War, and I think it is premature to remove these people, these people who are numerous, have lost their lives, have been injured, and I believe that because of Croatia that is still mined, due to numerous threats in these areas, this is an premature decision, and we are opposed to this decision. I don't think in the Croatian public this is allowed... Just to shut down a sheep's important center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I would once again appeal to us MPs, to the representative of the ministry to request that the union of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and the people working in the system be preserved and that this activity remains in the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the present structure. A large number of RS areas occupied have not been demined. We haven't had any analysis of how many areas we need, how many people we need, this is how we leave these people alone on the street, who knows who knows who, we didn't get any clear answers here. We stand on behalf of the Most that this center is not shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120865	Thank you, time. Yeah, well, I gotta give you a break, 12.45. Comrade Ostojić, come in. What did you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120866	On behalf of the SDP club would also request a break in view of...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120867	We have a break, one from the SDP in the morning. There was a break on behalf of the SDP in the morning, thank you. So we continue at 12 o'clock and 46 minutes, thank you. MEETING IN 12.37 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.48 HOURS]] Replica No. 2. Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120869	You haven't answered a single question, Mr. Katic, it's not contrary to the strategy or the central body that becomes a fire department from the association, you were in the government with me in the rank of assistant minister, you're talking about depolitisation, and then SOA was part of the Ministry of the Interior. You're actually proof of what depoliticization looks like... For all governments, for all parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't lecture me about it. There will be no number 112, there will remain a sign only in the rooms and 1800 people will continue to work operationally with communications centres. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120870	The next replica of my colleague, Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120871	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, so here is just one question and it appeared in the media in the papers on August 2nd, the government adopted a plan and on August 3rd, Minister Bozinovic appointed a ten-member working group entrusted with the task of implementing the government's conclusions. At the head of that group according to the media reports was Mr. Trutt. But what is Western to the eyes, which the media says was not in that group, were not the leaders of the body, no one asked them for an opinion, Dragan Lozancic, Zdravko Modursan, Damir Korunic and Sasa Medavovic. Here it is related to the CROMAC itself which you often asked today why these people didn't consult even though they might have had, had no interest in abolishing their agency but why they weren't involved in the task force.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120872	Thank you. And the last one... Answer? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here, you can always, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120873	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, that a task force was appointed because this work had to be prepared and were in it representatives of all these bodies, so the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the Office for Nuclear and Radiological Security, CROMAC and the Agency for Spaces Threatened by the Explosive Atmosphere, were mainly at the level of the deputy head or director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120874	Thank you and the last replica of your presentation, a replica from counterpart Josip Djakic. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120875	Thank you very much. Mr. Katiæu, you've explained quite well that there have been many allegations that are not true and that will not happen. Of course CROMAC is an institution that has done a lot of good to Croatia by liberating from the mines of large territory of the entire county. But we are aware that it was in this case and a lot of what is called the testimony of Colonel Kakaric that Mr. Ostojić should know more about, given that in his time he ended up at the Vrapac Center and was then released from all charges as a whistler proving what crime was going on. Of course, now that the system will function via the MUP it can be completely different to control each of the employees, each of the CROMAC employees and a different system can be monitored and run all transparently and clearly and without such squadrons... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120876	Thank you. This concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law amending the Civil Protection System Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 537. Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on Radiological and Nuclear Safety, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 538. And Final Proposal for the Law amending the Act on Mine Action, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 539. And we'll vote on these three laws when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u120877	Final proposal of the Law amending the Civil Protection System Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 537. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law amending the Civil Protection System Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 79 for, 2 abstentions and 19 against the Law amending the Civil Protection System Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121151	Before taking the position of the Club of Representatives, which is at 13 o'clock, we will begin with the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 398. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. With us is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and his colleague, so with us is Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, so I ask him if he wants to give an additional introductory explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121152	Thank you very much. Respect for the President-in-Office of the Honorable Representatives and Representatives present today. Therefore, the existing law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction shall regulate the conduct of professional activities of spatial planning, design operations, professional construction supervision, the carrying out of works of construction, the carrying out of activities of project management and the carrying out of tasks and research activities and previous research activities, and all with the purpose of ensuring quality, professional and responsible performance of these works and activities, as well as the achievement of the objectives of certain specific regulations governing the area of spatial planning and construction products. The three-year implementation of this law highlighted the need for further compliance with market conditions, then clearer formulation of certain provisions of the law as well as the need to comply with the normative solutions and practices of EU Member States. The proposed law already takes place from the first reading further compliance with the provisions governing the performance of spatial construction operations with the 2005 Directive, which refers to the regulation of the activities of the project manager. That change also ensures the implementation of measures under the Action Plan in the field of regulation of professions in the Republic of Croatia. Then, administrative barriers in the performance of works and works in construction are reduced by particularly regulating the manager of less complex work with reduced working experience from 10 to 5 years to 5 years, and the legal person may use the instrument of business technical cooperation for certain purposes and not necessarily have all the necessary experts in a working relationship. Furthermore, the opinions of all stakeholders in the construction system in the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the applicable legal provisions concerning the carrying out of the activities of the examination of certain parts of the building have been evaluated. For the purpose of verifying or proving compliance with the basic building requirements and with previous research essential for the design, construction or maintenance of buildings. In this context, a comparative analysis of the rules regulated by the EU Member States to carry out these activities has been carried out and it has been observed that the carrying out of the research activities of parts of the building in most EU Member States is not regulated or that the capacity to carry out such operations is not demonstrated by accreditation in accordance with the requirements of the standard for the training of test laboratories, as regulated by current legal provisions. In addition, the analysis showed that out of 232 accreditations under this Act only 19 legal entities were accredited. Following the above, it was concluded that the provisions of the applicable Law laid down a very demanding condition for domestic entities in the study activities with regard to mandatory accreditation which was examined more closely during the preparation of these amendments, taking into account all the advantages and disadvantages of such a system and taking into account the maximum efficiency of the system for the economy. In relation to the above, the activity of studies and previous research is mostly delegated, and the testing of the properties for which it is important to demonstrate the capacity through accreditation will be prescribed by the Regulation to be developed in cooperation with the professional chambers. Furthermore, due to an increasing number of foreign persons, the contractor’s obligations to ensure liability for the damages that an investor or other person might make to carry out the business or activity during the performance of those operations are also prescribed. The implementation of mandatory permanent training of persons who carry out spatial planning and construction tasks in the capacity of an authorised person, and which will be regulated by a special Regulation that will be developed in cooperation with professional chambers and associations, shall be prescribed. In fact, it has been observed in this practice so far that one part of our experts does not follow the changes in regulation and change in technology. Detailed arrangements shall be developed and eliminated in the application of certain provisions of the Act relating to the conditions for the exercise of the activity under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Home Affairs or of foreign legal and natural persons, craftsmen carrying out those activities in the Republic of Croatia on a temporary and occasional basis. Furthermore, the obligations of investors who are bonds of application of the Public Procurement Act to appoint a project manager before making an investment decision and according to the financial thresholds are more detailed, depending on the type and complexity of the buildings, all in order to improve quality preparation and implementation of the projects. In addition, design surveillance is developed as an inseparable business since the construction of the main project, except in exceptional cases of prevention. Foreign authorised natural persons shall be subject to verification of Croatian language knowledge. Furthermore, infringement provisions relating to legal and natural persons who carry out business planning and construction activities in the Republic of Croatia are complemented on a temporary and occasional basis. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Jobs and Activities, spatial arrangement and construction differs significantly from the initial proposal in the following respects, the implementation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, the Institute, the Funds, companies, the Institute, the Foundation and other legal persons with public authority, which, in particular, relates to the accession of the Croatian Institute for Physical Development at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning. It is possible that the tasks of less complex works can also be carried out by a person who has a master’s test or recognizes the master’s status in the area of construction which does these tasks within his master’s calling. Furthermore, landscape architects are allowed to continue their membership in the Croatian Chamber of Architects and it is prescribed that they are the same associates in the design of projects, and that the clear expression clearly determines that design operations within the meaning of this Act can only be done by persons with education in the scientific field of technical sciences. The expert shall also be an expert in conducting ex ante research in the field of electrical engineering and engineering. Finally, provisions on the conduct of control over the work of chambers are further developed, but not its members. The general objectives of this Act are to regulate the conditions for better performing spatial planning and construction activities, and to ensure the right to provide services and the right to business creation of Croatian economic operators and individuals within the European Economic Area. The amendments and additions to this Act will provide an additional prerequisite for the quality work of the participants in the construction, further differentiating the tasks of the profession, to more professionalise the work, will also ensure the conditions for better project management in the construction of public procurement obligations. Finally, there will be a certain administrative discharge in the performance of works in construction. I thank you and suggest that this proposal be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121153	Thank you. Before taking the stand of the club of representatives, I suggest we finish up with the replicas, since we have 3 on your exhibit, and then we will go with colleague Radin, after which Anka Mrak Taritaš and colleague Dobrović. Here you go, colleague Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121154	Thank you very much. In fact, my replica is related to one of the already long polemics that has been run around the role of landscape architects, or people who have listened to interdisciplinary studies that have been doing landscape design for decades, landscapes. We have companies that have large references and international references, and in European countries, in many European countries, Slovenia is the first right away, an interdisciplinary study is quite enough to design a landscape. I'm curious as to why these people are now being taken away from these powers and I'm countering the amendments I'm about to make against that decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121155	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121156	Thank you very much for asking, so it's a long-standing dilemma that's been open to the amendments of the law and it's very simple in nature. Therefore, only technical persons participate in the construction processes, in the construction processes. Everyone else, every honor of the profession, every honor of the traditions of landscape architects but they still don't move in the domain of technical sciences and we're dealing with basic requirements here that the buildings must meet. The landscape architects, based on their traditions, remain in the Chamber of Architects with the exact position of which jobs they can deal with. So by making the labs as well as the fire engineers and all the others who participate in the construction processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121157	Thank you. Here are my colleagues, Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121158	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you have explained a new provision that we have in this law, that is, in Article 19, an obligation is added to ensure that the performer is responsible for the damage he would do by working so that I do not read everything now. We didn't have it in the law until now, we had obligations in the law that the performer should have. Artists were normally provided in certain ways, and this was the relationship between investors and performers. What are your reasons, which are your arguments, which made you think that we now have such a provision in the law clearly defined because so far we haven't had such a practice, even though the performers have secured themselves, we still have their insurance policies and everything else, which are only in a few sentences, which drove you out, which were the reasons why we now have such a clear provision in the law and what amount will be these shelves and how will this be further regulated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121159	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121160	Thank you very much. I explained in the opening statement because I expected there might be misunderstandings or controversy on this issue. So, I'll repeat what I said, it's about a growing number of present, foreign contractors and happening to come without their insurance policies. For this reason, it is simply the widow's obligation and legal obligation to secure a policy for the orderly execution of her affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121161	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Slaven Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121162	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you said that this bill also respects the rulings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from the beginning of August on the abolition of the number of agencies, of course regarding the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development. I am interested in whether or not the Ministry has any technique on the basis of the elaborates, so an analysis of the benefits or the lack of what we are going to lose or what we are going to get on the issue of removing this office because, of course, the rationalisation of the state apparatus is a good thing, however, if it seems over the knee, without previous analysis, it can definitely do far more damage than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121163	Thank you. You can answer that, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121164	Thank you very much. As regards the rationalisation in this section of Croatia for water for spatial development and the accession of its ministry, therefore, not entirely the activities that this office has been engaged in but which are being attached and continuing to work within the ministry are being abolished, some coefficients that have been slightly different from those of the ministry and are being rationalised in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121166	Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yes, go ahead. Mrs Bernarda Topolko, president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121167	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly held at the 25th session on 5th December 2018, discussed the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, second reading, PZ No 398, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, acting on 30 November 2018. On the basis of Article 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, discussed that act as a home working body. The representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, firstly, explained the basic provisions of the final proposal of the Law, stating the differences in the proposal for this Law in the first reading, stressing that the introduction of a new concept of the organisation of professional training of persons performing the professional activities of spatial planning and construction is proposed. An expert in conducting previous research in the field of electrical engineering and engineering shall also be able to be an expert in the conduct of the examination operations. The provision relating to organisational forms in which the authorised architect of the urbanist can perform spatial planning tasks has also been amended in order to continue to become civil servants of the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development by taking over jobs by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning since 01 January 2019. In the debate on the issues covered by this Act, the proposing representatives explained the proposed solution to design activities in the field of construction, by persons with education in the scientific field of technical sciences. The landscape architects can continue doing the jobs they are doing now and allow landscape architects to join the Croatian Chamber of Architects. For most votes, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121168	Thank you. I open the debate, Mr Branko Bacic will speak first in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121169	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction. I remember when we implemented the reform from 2004 to 2009, and we regulated legislation that applied to spatial planning and construction, which started in 2004 with the Regulation on the protected coastal area of the sea, was later incorporated into the Law, the Later Laws which defined spatial planning and construction, that in 2009 the Law on business and activities of spatial planning and construction was then adopted, which, by law then, we divided the Single Chamber of Architects and Engineers into 4 Chambers, and the whole problem of resolving these affairs, and the affairs and obligations of the Chamber was contained in the Law on the activities of spatial planning and construction. Later in 2015, later, the Chamber was first divided into 4 Chambers, and then in 2015 we passed the Law which separated the affairs of the Chamber from this Act that we are practically changing today, but in much of it is clearly referred to then by the powers and architects, but also by the engineers in construction. What I would particularly like to say in this regard is that in 2015, when we discussed the adoption of a special law, there were then several obstacles that were defined and dragged through the law-making process, we were one concerning the introduction of the concept or authority of the architect of urbanist, and the other part that was often mentioned in the public at that time, and this was a question of how and how by law the issue of architects or architects of landscape architecture was resolved as well as how to deal with their powers. Whether what they're doing is the elaborate project forms an integral part of the project, etc., etc. I believe that in this way the Government has tried to make a compromise between the wishes they are working, which are cited by the landscape architects, and on the other hand, what the Government estimates are that technical affairs are to imply a project in which the lights of a project of landscape planning, for example, parks, perivos or other areas in which landscape architects are invited to discuss, decide, do their elaborates, projects or however it is later resolved. Therefore, in any case, it is also necessary to regulate, in particular, the Statute of the Chamber of Authors to the end of the proceedings, powers, participation or participation of landscape architects in design and arrangement activities. What I would particularly like to single out in the first place is the fact that on 2 August, the Government reached a conclusion that it had prescribed that it would be reduced somewhere by 54 different agencies, institutions and other state institutions and that they would be partially abolished, that their businesses were taken over by other central bodies, so specifically this law in the section relating to the Ministry of Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia, practically that institution becomes an integral part of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, and this law also defines the fact that, in the meantime, in relation to the first reading, the government had made such a conclusion that it had prescribed and abolished the institution itself and the taking over of the affairs of the institutions by the relevant ministry. Furthermore, these amendments to the law ensure the implementation of measures under the Action Plan in the field of regulated professions in Croatia for the period 2016 to 2018 and reduce administrative barriers in the performance of works and activities in construction, especially those of less complex works with reduced working experience from 10 to 5 years to now. What is also important to mention is that this law further harmonizes our legislation with EU directives, and in this respect all those obligations that we are required to comply with are regulated. When I spoke of reducing the barriers to the performance of works and works in construction, they shall ensure the implementation of the mandatory professional training of persons performing spatial planning and construction tasks as an authorised person. One of the most important newspapers in this law that he would point out is that it enables a legal person and a natural person to perform the activity of managing a particular building project so that he can carry out the design work of that building. I point out this as a very important provision, and what we had repeatedly discussed here in the Croatian Parliament through the adoption of the law itself. It also enables employees of the legal or natural person of the craftsman who performs the management activity of the construction project or of certain buildings so that he can be a designer on the same building. Also.../incomprehensible/... specific provisions which now allow this participation in design operations to be very important. So, we at the HDZ Representatives' Club have manifested ourselves in this law or amendments to this law during the first reading, and given the small changes that took place until the second reading, I can only say that as a representative club we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121170	Thank you, too, Mrs Bernarda Topolko, in front of the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121171	I thank the Vice President, and here I will at first also point out that the CNS will support this bill. This law regulates the implementation of professional and spatial planning activities, designing or professional supervision, construction, construction, construction project management, testing and previous research, the tasks of professions, professional exams, professional training and conditions for foreign persons performing the tasks and activities of spatial planning and construction. We're witnessing a lack of labour. We in Međimurje have one of 15 large construction firms and no labour force. This law goes hand in hand to entrepreneurs that they can also employ labour from others, from third and other countries, by detailing how the knowledge of Croatian language and all other parameters that authorised designers or architects must have. It is also important to note that in order to carry out the work of a legal person or a natural person who performs the tasks and activities of a spatial arrangement, designing and professional supervision of construction, as well as the legal or natural person who performs the activities of the construction, testing and previous research or management of the construction project, the craftsman shall comply with investors and other persons according to the provisions of this law. This law also introduces that a solution to the register of the office for the self-execution of the professional affairs of spatial planning is being adopted by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, i.e. the Croatian Chamber of Architects, a joint office for performing spatial planning activities can be established. It shall be established by a register of the joint offices of the Croatian Chamber of Architects at the request of the authorised architects who have concluded the contract. It is also defined in Article 15. that an authorised architect, an urbanist who independently performs the professional tasks of spatial planning, or a legal person registered for the performance of spatial planning professional affairs, depends on the level and content of the spatial plan that is developed in the design of the spatial plan, may, where appropriate, ensure that other persons as an authorised engineer of construction, authorised transport engineer or authorised engineering engineer, an authorised electrical engineering engineer with at least 2 years of working experience in spatial planning operations. It can also ensure the participation of a master’s degree of geography or master’s degree of biology, environmental science, landscape architecture, forestry, agronomy or similar profession that has at least 2 years’ experience in the affairs of spatial planning and can also master economics, sociology, rights or similar professions that have at least 2 years’ experience in the affairs of spatial planning. An engineer of construction sites and a work manager shall be introduced, and less complex works shall be envisaged where such works may also be performed by an appropriate person with completed secondary school according to the technical engineering programme and shall have at least 5 years of work experience in the profession and passed a professional exam or person who has passed a master's test or recognition of master status in the field of construction. He's doing these jobs under his master's service. Less complex jobs will be prescribed by the Minister. Business cases in construction are also introduced, these are less complex works of different professions, for the management of these works can be appointed as an authorised head of the works. The contractor is also obliged to ensure responsibility for the damages that it may do to the investor or other persons during the conduct of the business or activity. This law also amends Article 42, which now includes the activity of the examination by a legal person or a natural person craft registered for the activities of the technical examination and analysis, has provided and appointed an expert to carry out the examination, uses moderate instruments or equipment in the study and undertakes the minister to prescribe accreditation to prescribe it by means of a Regulation. It is also stated in Article 52 that works of design are carried out by persons with education in the scientific field of technical science and paragraph 2 that the professions of landscape architecture as co-workers of this article are governed by the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Architecture. We have witnessed that landscape architects have raised a lot of dust around this law, namely, it is indisputable that the architect should cooperate with them because we are aware of the fact that you simply see a building created in the middle of a hill building with too little space, and there is no parking, let alone a decorated environment. So in any case, the projectors are invited to use the landscape architecture profession. This proposal also includes the professional education of all those involved in all professions related to this law, the acquisition and improvement of expertise, each 2 years carried out by chambers, are to be completed. This law also provides for criminal measures ranging from 5 to 150 000 kuna for inadequate execution of jobs. And what would have been mentioned, and we heard from the beginning, that, at the conclusion of the Government of Croatia since 2 August, it has been abolished, i.e. it has been attached to the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of the Institute since 1 January, so as to reduce the number of agencies and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121172	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Anka Dark Taritash in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121173	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, distinguished secretary of state, assistant and associate, co-workers and colleagues, here we are, in the second reading, Amendments and additions to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction. Somehow in your life you give yourself some, you say I will never, and then as soon as you say I will never, then you change yourself somehow. When I was a resolute minister then there was one respected representative at HS who everything that came from the Ministry was bad, so he always reported and everything that came from the Ministry was bad, nothing he found for good, it was always that, whether it was a spatial plan, a change of law or a serious law, it was bad. I said, I don't want to be like that. And for the simple reason why they propose legislation at the Ministry and its narrow team is that they give politics, and they do colleagues, they're colleagues I've worked with for many years and somehow when I attack some law, if I attack some law that they've been doing, I wouldn't feel good, and I kind of said I won't do it, and then of course, I have to deny it. We have before us an Amendment and an addition to the Law and I am one of those who absolutely advocates giving every law the possibility of life, that after the law lives, to see what's good, to change good, to move some bad things, to forgive, to move bad things, and to leave well, I guess this remains from this discussion of the first three laws where I still haven't been able to figure out why we're doing it. So what you see is that it's bad, that it should be better, try to be better, more expedient, and everything else. And if this law were to be like that, I would say, it seems to me that this should be like this, like this, but basically you go one step ahead, the times change, we're all actually trying to make it better, so let's do it with that law. And now I'm just gonna focus on a few topics. The first topic of abolishing the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development. As I repeat, I do not know how many times the government has reached the conclusion of 54 agencies, the Institute, the Funds should be abolished, and one of these is the Croatian Institute. And it comes to order, abolishing, moving this personality, the OIB will be abolished as soon as it logs in or as soon as it votes, which should be voted on. The only country of all EU member states is the Republic of Croatia that did not have a Institute, which has now, unfortunately, been the Institute for about 4 years and we are now terminating it. Why did she have the Bureau? She had a Bureau to deal with things the Ministry couldn't do. In order to do certain professional bases, to do certain analyses, to have employed people who are not civil servants but have, they can be members of a chamber that can do certain activities, which the Office can do jobs that are actually done by the state, where the state wants to have its own development strategy, its own state spatial plan, not to work physically, but to coordinate and work. And now a rescue solution. The rescue solution is that employees will be taken over by the Ministry, that unlike other employees at the Ministry who are members of the Chamber of Architects during the work of administrative affairs, they will have frozen, these will not have it, that I explain to you in simple terms what it is. You have the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health you have an employee dentist who gives consent or offices that someone can perform and be a private dentist. But open a curtain there, behind the curtain that dentist has a chair and now in the morning gives consent, and in the afternoon repairs his teeth. Is that in your head? No, that's the solution we now have at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. Someone will agree to the plans before noon on the spatial plans of municipalities, cities and everything else, and the afternoon will work on these same plans, I don't know what machines, I don't know how, I don't know why, is that the role and importance of the Ministry? The ministry should be a body that coordinates, and the field profession makes plans that, who knows, have experience, that can work. So, the solution we have now, we will have people at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning who will also be members of the Chamber and will be able to work out spatial plans. We haven't had that yet, let's see and we'll learn to see what it is. In doing so, of course, during working hours, they do spatial plans, my people do where we're going together, but the government decided so, the prime minister said, the Ministry made such a proposal, all the public rose up, the Chamber said it wasn't good, but we forgot it all out of the simple, underneath this whole story about the budget, from the whole story of the great State Inspectorate, this went under the radar, it's one topic to you. The other topic is landscape architects. It's absolutely a fact that landscape architects don't do projects, they do elaborates. They are not even educated to work on projects, but they participate in the process of spatial planning, participate in the design process with their labs. Now, I still can't understand, the fact is that I'm getting brighter and brighter, but I can't understand why the existing provisions of the law haven't met these conditions that we had, but we're introducing a mess at all in, for one thing, introducing a mess among landscape architects, they feel insecure, they feel like they don't need anyone. We have a college where people are educated, educated to get the name of a regional architect, and now the problem is that we in the law have to put them in some second, third or fourth order. Then let's say, we don't need landscape architects, we won't have them, let them go, let them study in Slovenia, if in Slovenia they can do this job, when doing this law that's changing now, when the basic law is being done then the landscape architects also had a requirement to make it more important for them both in the process of spatial planning and designing and in the process. This was, this solution that we had now in the law that we're changing was agreed with them. If someone can explain to me why the solution we have is going to change in a way that everyone is unhappy with it, I don't know. The next topic I want to say is the subject of the examination, the subject of accreditation, which has been lifted for individual laboratories. When I was preparing for this debate, I went to the websites of our chambers, among other things, four chambers, architects, builders, engineers and electricians, who in the beginning of December sent a letter to the Minister of Construction and to the Deputy Prime Minister, stressing that this law opened a series of new problems that they disagreed with, that they would have problems on the domestic market, and that the minister had them, that only once in the course of 20 minutes had the opportunity to listen to the problem and that these problems were not responding. If all four chambers tell you the same thing, then let's read what they're saying, let's read what's the problem and let's get it out of the way that we don't have that problem. We all remember the recent images when the overpass in Genoa collapsed and when it went down to see if they had all the necessary tests and all the necessary elements, and then they actually justified themselves by law and all the others. We have decided to abolish accreditations related to the possibility of testing and previous testing and testing during construction, and there is quite enough reason why they are listed, which are also in the reasoning of the law as to why it is so. I don't understand why it is, I don't understand why it bothered and don't justify it with EU directives on regulated professions, because it simply isn't. In the opening of the reasoning, the State Secretary cited a number of two-digit accreditations issued by those dealing with this, and we have a long tradition here, this long tradition was that people who have such knowledge participated even beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia with these knowledge, said there are approximately 500 different methods that are conducted in laboratories, that they are very respected and that this will make the situation worse. Why is that? This will be answered by someone who has decided on a bill like this and who will vote for such a bill. This law is not one of those laws that will cause a lot of noise, this law is not one of those laws that will stand outside because it's about pension reform, this law is not one of those big laws where someone will tell me to increase VAT, cut my VAT, but this is one law that has an exceptional connection to jobs, as the title itself says in the affairs and activities of spatial planning and construction. The first to feel recession is the profession of construction, the first to feel that something happened on the market is the same, is the profession of construction, and what we do with legislation, when it starts in recession, then we all get a little loose together because here's the poor they have a little, they're hard, you don't have anyone loose because you don't have anyone because the recession is recession. When it comes out of the recession, we'll squeeze there and wrinkle our hand like that because it's on its way, and now we'll regulate it. Wrong. There are more jobs in Croatia than there are people who are willing to do. When you talk to the builders a little, you hear the next thing you know, there's work to be done, work is well paid, it's no problem, but there's no people. At this point there are no people who will do it, there are no people because the people, the fellow who has it, I don't know if everyone will come to me on Monday, because what they can offer him in Germany I can't offer him in Croatia and I have this problem. And now that we're doing more, we're still doing two more things through this amendment and the addition of the law. One thing is this provision of Article 19, where we introduce an insurance obligation for performers even though it is a relationship between investors and performers, an explanation that was both introduced and then on my request from the Secretary of State was that it was because of foreign performers, but then we need to know, how much is, how much is it, what is it about, what are the penalties. So we made a commitment without knowing what would happen next, and we had a case where constant professional training was being done. I absolutely agree with permanent professional training, why I often compare work and give examples that are related to human health or medicine because we all understand it. There's not one of us who's going to go, say, to operate on the appendix of his occultist, regardless of the oculist would know how to do it, there's probably a lot of us who would say that I cut it out, I take it out, I sew it up, and I'm done. But we're not going. Likewise, if you have to design a hotel, so they won't take it to design a hotel for someone who's spent your whole life doing industrial architecture, you'll take someone who has this reference in terms of professional training in terms of having certain references for a particular job, absolutely yes and in that sense it's a good thing to have. But we had a subject of professional training and point-gathering, which we had and it proved by two basics that it was not good. One of the reasons that it turned absolutely into business, you had a presentation of new tiles, for presenting new tiles cost a quotation, now I'm really talking about 500 kuna and you get 3 points, you go see new tiles and you get that you've collected, you pay 500 kuna you've collected 3 points, there goes one from the office comes.../incomprehensible/... so it's turned into something that doesn't need to be converted, that's the first thing, and the other thing that's even more important, which we've become stepmother to our own people. That means with us after you graduate college, you have to pass a professional exam in order to do certain jobs. But it's not enough yet, you have to collect points then it's listed there by the chamber, which is the point of collecting points, it's turned into business, and it's just not good, but when you go to work in Poland or when you go to work in the Netherlands, our architect when he goes to work in the Netherlands, I have to meet the conditions that are worth in Croatia not worth in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands there's no expert exam at all. You even have that after 10 years of doing certain jobs, it's about design and architecture and acknowledging certain qualifications, so you can do it, but your problem is even bigger. Today the young man will go to work outside. He'll work outside. It's going to work for five years, it's going to get some experience, and then when it gets back here, we're going to get it back to the beginning, to the professional exam, to collect points and everything. The only question is whether we want to be a stepmother or a mother at the beginning or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121174	Thank you, too. Mr. Sinisha Hajdash Doncic in front of the SDP counseling club, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121175	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will just continue with similar or almost the same remarks as my colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, so the topic is the institution and the topic is landscape architects. On several occasions, this assembly is mentioned so-called. Cats, which are cat-colored, what kind of mouse-hunting, so it's not a Croatian folk saying, it's so-called. Dengo's lesson or Chinese folk proverb, which eventually entered the mainstream as some cost benefit analysis of the public sector, is now going back to cost benefit analysis of the public sector, it unfortunately does not exist in Croatia as regards the abolition of neither the government nor the agencies and what we have witnessed in the early morning discussions. So, unfortunately, it comes down to a mere gratification of the form likely to concern rather than the European semester or something promised in so-called. The national reform plan and it's been happening over the past few years without anyone seeing what are really advantages, which are the shortcomings in the abolition or merger of certain agencies, the institutes, I say may be justified but precisely because of some historical heritage some should remain as separate institutions, as separate agencies, as separate agencies, as separate institutions. Now a little bit about the second wheel. Croatia is a place. Space is one of the most real natural categories in which we act. So now we're going to have some classic economic thought that looks at space towards the phenomenon of land and the phenomenon of rent. Only in the last decade, it began to talk about space and as an economic category as an important factor in economic development but all the debates about space have seriously warned about a space like an economic resource that is final, which is limited, and which is divisible. We also view it as a framework for a greater number of users who can emulate space with some form of technology even if it can become a product by market processes, which means that there is a system of certain authorities here, so whether it is local, regional, state, supranational, with a wide range of different structures that include both economic and social and political elements and even religious elements. When we observe in terms of this spatial law for editing and construction, the local space, it is also detached. So again we link it to the city space, municipalities, micro regions, macro-region, so it's always about the space where social interactions occur between different social groups that co-operate or organise co-operation to achieve common goals. Manuel Castells, the largest of us to say the apologist of space, says that space is not a reflection of society, but is its expression, which means that spatial shapes and processes are shaped by the dynamics of the entire social structure. So we have on one side a phenomenon which is more developed and sophisticated and space takes on similar characteristics as society and shows a strong correlation with the development of society and social processes and all these social processes affecting space by acting on a built environment that we inherit from previous socio-space structures and we change the form and sometimes the content and precisely these extreme influences together with local factors and people are involved in determined social relations and materialisation of goods that gives space shape, function and social meaning. Just as it is mentioned, space is an important factor, it connects with identity and politics, so politics, of course, through amendments and additions to the law. So it also becomes a factor in the reproduction of culture, language and customs, but we cannot just see it as trying to change in this part of the law, view it as exclusively economic activity, and as an exclusive economic concept of space observation because it is established at different levels. So I can agree that space has economic content, so people produce some material goods within some space, within a local community itself, the content itself, the structure of production, so we have three basic factors, work, capital and land, they make its structure, and there are limits that in the economic content of space do not give real meaning to the space itself. Then we have social content, so it's the social structure of space, whether it's civil society, identity, social capital, so identity is a set of spatial stairways and social change flows in society that mark some space. Social space and social capital. The third category is institutional content. So the rules, procedures, public policies, governance and organisations, exactly these public rules of public policy procedures, encourage us to still accept some proposals that come from professional associations because these very public policies want to highlight a growing role in mutual relations, so, society and economy, but that we have some common priority and common co-priority for society and as a last category, we can say that this is where public goods are tied to space, so, environment, institutes, education systems because they make a good number of users. And now, with all that, there are different approaches that view space as a factor in location of activity and development. So it can also be observed through globalisation processes that affect our space, and can also be observed from what comes from below, therefore, from some regional or interregional integrations. And precisely for the reasons mentioned above, to say, the division, the importance of space, we believe it is necessary to keep authorised landscape architects in the law, and therefore we would suggest that they be. 29. change and read, in art. No. 49th century 2. means that the tasks of the professions authorised to be rolled by authorised landscape architects are, therefore, the design of projects or other documents of landscape planning and landscape architecture in accordance with the last regulations governing construction and spatial planning, as well as the activities of landscape design in the capacity of the responsible person i.e. the development of all landscape planning projects and landscape architecture for the management of landscape operations within and outside the populated areas, and the presentation of estimated costs for landscape planning projects and landscape architecture projects, the development of existing state of operation projects in space, the identification of the fulfilment of basic procedures for space operations, the production of parts of removal projects for operations in the area or in the area of landscape architecture. So there is an attitude, as far as we are concerned, very clear, and from that, through some examples, therefore, which exist through examples of the legal status of rural architects in Croatian law that are carried out in professional magazines, I think they also give a positive, positive addition, therefore, that these things that do not work do not change, but that they are well analyzed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121176	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121177	Thank you very much. I thank all the participants of this debate who spoke on the subject of the Law which today, this one, is presented and I am convinced that the proposed amendments and additions will lead to a better solution, because through practice it has proved precisely surgically clear and precise what should be changed in the law to be better results in practice. A brief reference to some exposures that may have gone a little wrong, and this, not to be left with so many open questions, in the first row, this, Mrs. Anki Dark Taritash, the esteemed parliamentary representatives, when a really good question was raised, could be concluded from her debate, this, so why did this Croatian Institute of Spatial Development ever serve? So it's a completely wrong thesis that officials at the ministry now, by new concept, would issue consent to what they're working on. It is known that for state spatial plans, the Ministry does not give consent, but the Parliament does, so that officials will not give themselves consent in any part of it. What is an important concept, which is that, of course, the Ministry together with its design unit, which will become the Institute, completely separate from everyone else, should work, of course, on strategies, on programmes, and not on practical design, it should be left to the market. Secondly, the issue of regional architects is also not quite clear when it is stressed that this was agreed. So was it agreed that landscape architects competed as biotechnical sciences for architects in designing, or that they received this status through the Statute of the Croatian Chamber of Architects, not by Law. So it was necessary now to put things in place and in building processes that primarily refer to basic building requirements, not bio-technical qualities and landscapes around the building. The accreditation studies were also not quite clear what the problem was about except that it wanted to maintain the existing situation, which again the practice showed that it was unsustainable for the simple reason why it accredited laboratories for all possible tests, regardless of the priorities, is not economically justified. So it was precisely this Law that was needed, now by this procedure to determine exactly what mattered and what didn't matter. Mandatory education is problematic, it is not understandable why compulsory education could be problematic when it is also fully evident what is happening in practice, and that our engineers do not follow the profession, follow the development of materials, and do not follow the normative. So, that this practice will be better, of course, because it will not be copied solutions that were once also unsustainable, but should, this one, propose a new solution, sustainable, acceptable and that will introduce more professionalism in work. Dear Representative Hajdas Doncic also advocates landscape architects so that they can make projects a little contrary to their colleague and Mrs Taritash, who claims that they should not be doing projects, but these Statutes of the Chamber are given to work projects. So, the Nature Protection Act mentions landscape at the 42nd point, the Environmental Protection Act mentions landscape in 19 points, in 19 places, and the Construction Act, none. It is clear that technical sciences should participate in construction processes that require project documentation to meet the basic requirements for buildings, plants, landscapes and all other praises are valuable professions, but not in construction processes. There, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121178	You have several replicas, actually 3. The first line has Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121179	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, without quality management of spatial and quality spatial plans, there is no quality development. Of course, that requires professionals, and you, by this bill, introduce them to young people who complete construction and architecture, introduce a new concept of professional training and thus send them a message that they are not very important, that they can go beyond the Republic of Croatia, and with the same proposal of the Law and with this professional training you make it difficult for them to return from Ireland, from Germany. I don't think such an approach should be, and I'd like to ask you for all those who have made our objections, to explain once again why this is being introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121180	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121181	I always thank the honourable representative for the remark when he wants to improve some law, though. However, to comment on professional training, I do not think it is necessary today, however, to insist on professional training. When we had our first reading debate, then your fellow doctors just jumped to it and said we support professional training, it is unimaginable that we doctors are not professionally perfected during the development of our career. Everything changes. Stopping at the level of college and college education in such an important profession as construction and construction, that would certainly not be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121182	Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121183	Thank you very much. My colleague Uhlir and I obviously don't understand each other, so it's no wonder that you're in response to what I said, saying you don't understand me, is it obvious we don't understand each other, but it would be good to get maybe a clear answer to two questions. The first question, since it is about the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, in the officials of that Ministry, therefore, the Minister, State Secretary and Assistants, as far as there are at this time architects, is the first question, and the second question, since the state spatial plan was the basic task of the Bureau with the idea, not to do it, but to do it outside, the Institute for Co-ordination, as far as it came with the state spatial plan, is it physically going to be done at the Ministry or is it going to be outside and when you think that it could ever see the light of day in terms of public debate? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121184	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121185	I appreciate the question. So, the numerous state of the ministry and its professions and professions are one topic, and professional management of the Ministry is another topic. So the professions are always present, so in the last meeting of the Ministry, it was dominated by architects over the builders, so it wasn't that important. So it's about having everything sit in place, these amendments to the Law are exactly what I said in the final word, the surgery corrects everything that has been shown in practice as bad or missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121186	Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121187	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, reading article. 36. which speaks of compulsory professional training, I'm a little confused with this debate in the Assembly, and now that I'm reading, so, the Ministry gives consent, the Chamber is the one who initiates and defines the framework of the completion program itself, so if you're giving consent, maybe the suggestion that, as it is from the debate, that there, that this is probably not an exhibition point for ceramic tiles and materials, but probably something really professional training, so here, if you're going to give consent in the future, I ask you, don't give such things consent as the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121188	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121189	Thank you very much. Well, it's also a good observation and previous work when it's been given consent if it's been given to advertising products by professional education, we certainly don't intend to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121190	I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121191	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 398, the motion is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Siniša Hajdaš Dončić, representative Furio Radin, GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Dear Secretary of State Željko Uhlir, please. Here you go. 1st Amendment of Vice-President Sinisha Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121192	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted because the proposed way to edit the tasks of the profession, landscape architecture would lead to ambiguities regarding jurisdiction in meeting the basic requirements in the building to be achieved in the project. And that can only be responsible for persons with education in the scientific field of technical science. All other participants in the production of project documentation are co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121193	On behalf of the club. Excuse me, personally, Representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121194	... And the secretary of state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I agree with you even educationally, and I think that landscape architects have the right education, they actually have a multidisciplinary college of agronomy and architecture, and thus, as I mentioned, I think that space is final and... , I think it is broadly indivisible, I believe that space is one of the most valuable Croatian resources that is most subdued by construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that is precisely why the amendment is the one that says that it is the landscape architects, that the task of the professions that are therefore authorised to perform, is the authorised landscape architects who design projects or other documents of landscape planning and landscape architecture in accordance with the specific regulations governing the construction and spatial arrangement and the premises of landscape design in the capacity of the responsible person. designer. And we can agree that maybe, that even collects, we can... Complicating but I repeat the most valuable resource of Croatia is the space and space we need to keep. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore request a vote on my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121195	Thank you very much, Vice President. Amendment No. 2nd Honored Vice-President of the Parliament, Sinisha Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121196	... the previous amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121197	Your Honor...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121198	I can do it again, but I won't cut the time, so the same thing I said, I'm asking for a vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121199	Thank you. The 3rd amendment is to represent Furi Radin and the vice president of this house. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121200	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted because the application of such a normative solution in practice has proved to be too general and has led to wrong conclusions on competences in the construction processes and it is necessary to prescribe more detail on the role of landscape architects in the construction processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121201	Dear Vice President Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121202	Thank you. In this first amendment, the proposed addition of Article 49, which governs the tasks of the design work, aims to establish that the tasks of the regional architects who are authorised to do so will be governed by the statute of the chamber in which the authorised architects are joined. We actually have landscape architects who have completed interfaculty studies and who have been working on these jobs for decades, and that change would actually do one great damage because a certain number of them would simply move beyond the border with the study in Slovenia and work here with this study completely according to European rules, completely free of charge and pay taxes, at least tax profits in Slovenia. I think that we want everything but to export our personnel especially those who have been doing this work for decades and doing it well and, in my deeply entrenched view, architects are not the only ones who should be authorized to design because, in fact, landscape architecture is, by its nature, interdisciplinary. You have to know biology, you have to know agrinomia, you have to know a number of waists to do landscapes. And to bring them down at the level of associates that are allowed to design is actually deeply harmful to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121203	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121205	Second amendment of Honored Representative Furi Radin and Vice-President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121206	Honorable representative and respected representative and Vice President Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121207	If by the first amendment, it is actually these prerogatives of such studies that lead, people who have ended interests or... the studies shall allow chambers in the second amendment to effectively defend the rights of rural architects with the property of authorised architects and as this Article shall be abolished. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Other professions of biologists, environmentalists, forestryists, agronomies may carry out training for the performance of works in the field of construction as an associate regardless of the licence. For co-operation, neither a chamber license nor a chamber membership is required and the chamber does not need to keep a record of them. So in other words, the same story has continued since the previous amendment, we will create such a situation that, of course, landscape architects will go further in their efforts to defend their profession. But what doesn't make sense, which is why only architects are privileged, although landscape architecture actually contains a number of things that are more than architects, than architects themselves. Of course there's a wall, of course there's some stairs. However, he would not want the interests of some lobbies behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121208	Are you asking for a vote? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are now moving on to the amendments of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, first Amendment No. The 1st of that club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121209	The amendment is not accepted because the insurance of contractors prescribed in this place is not insurance in the construction of concrete buildings, but insurance against the general responsibility prescribed for both foreign contractors performing operations in the Republic of Croatia cross-border.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121210	Dear representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is what is said in the very explanation of the final draft law, which is to reduce administrative barriers in the performance of works and activities in construction. With this amendment, the de facto situation would remain as it is So the question of insurance when you have adopted this amendment, the question of the insurance of the contractors should be as far as the market and business policy of the performer, i.e. the contract between the investor and the contractor. [[/Intruder: Excuse me, please close the door, I think someone's yelling outside, we can't hear what counterpart Pusic is saying. Here you go, colleagues.]] So our amendment goes in the direction of what the law declares to be working, and not accepting this amendment actually goes against what it says it does. And please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121212	Thank you very much. Amendment No. Two of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121213	The amendment is not accepted because the accreditation obligation according to standard 17-025 for laboratory testing will be regulated as a necessary condition for certain test methods by the Regulation. The purpose is to separate itself from non-essential accreditation in view of unnecessary burdens on the economy and the problem of public procurement for survey operations. In this context, the introduction and additional, new accreditations to the second standard of 17-020, for inspection studies would be the introduction of new commitments, which is contrary to the government's policy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121214	Thank you very much. I hope it is not against the government policy of the Republic of Croatia to avoid arbitration and through this area of corruption. Anything that is done with arbitration documents that have not been passed through parliament is at risk, and in accreditation it is particularly possible, it is subject to the danger of being arbitrarily, in other words furnished, for those which the current government wants to get certain jobs. It wouldn't be the first time and we wouldn't be watching for the first time. That's why we think that instead of regulations, it should be within the law and this Parliament should know and the public who are transparent for all equal criteria. Please vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121215	Thank you. Amendment 3 to the same club of representatives. Thank you. Amendment 3 to the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121217	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed extended deadline is not appropriate to the dynamics of change, both in legal norms and in construction products and installation processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121218	On behalf of the club, respected representative Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121219	Thank you very much. The purpose of this amendment is precisely to become appropriate, i.e. that legal norms are not changed every season. So instead of two years here, it's been proposed for 4 years just to keep the rules from changing so that everyone likes it every minute and thus introduces additional legal uncertainty that is increasing in this way. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121220	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121221	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction of Other Reading, P.Z.E. No. 398. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Siniša Hajdaš Dončić, representative Furio Radin and GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. The amendments have been made at the beginning of today's session, and we will now vote on those amendments that the Proposer does not accept. So we're going to the first amendment of our colleague Sinish Hajdash Doncic, the government doesn't accept him. He didn't get the needed no. votes. We're going to the 2nd Amendment, the same representative the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Now we're going to the amendments of fellow Furia Radina, the first amendment the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Amendment No. 2. The government doesn't accept it either. He didn't get the needed no. votes. We are now going to the amendments to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, there are 3, the first one is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the needed no. votes. Amendment No. 2. The government does not accept the same. He didn't get the needed no. votes. And the 3rd amendment is also not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the needed no. votes. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Jobs and Activities of Spatial Planning and Construction, please vote. I find that most votes, 79 for, 2 abstentions and 16 against the law on amendments and additions to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121222	Now we move on to: - Final bill on amendments and amendments to the code of error. The proposal for a law is no. 394. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution and the Art. 172. in relation to Art. 129. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. If the proposer wants to give an additional explanation, with us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121223	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear MPs and MPs, here I am, bound by this Law for the second time before you, we have passed the first reading and in that first reading you have by the clubs had a constant number of objections to this proposed text of the Law, which we in the Ministry of Justice as holders of this Law, mostly respected and is before you, therefore, the Law in the Second Reading. Why did this fifth amendment to the Law of Infractions occur? In fact, you know that, at this point in time, the mini judicial reform in which the Law on the Courts of Justice and the Court of Justice and the DSV have been amended, so that the law as such has to be amended for these reasons, in order to bring the laws of the Court of Justice and to adjust them and to adapt them so that they can enter into force in 1.1 when these laws come into force, and these laws that I have stated to you. So besides the nom technical arrangement, we basically change there some 30 articles, 4-5 we changed them, actually 3 between these two readings to your observations, but the important thing other than the nom technical, other than the application primarily, and we did the changes for the reasons why the breaking courts as such are abolished and attached to municipal courts, and in that sense we had to edit the language of this law, but then we did some small, practical procedures in some segments that we considered important, somewhere and your incentive. So, and we have applied the level of punishment, we have extended the criminal framework to seek out the finance ministry, because they need to bring some of their laws in line with which this change of assumptions and they regulate their legislation according to EU expectations, i.e. some of the laws that have entered into force there, then we need to adapt our legislation. So that's where we raised the impediment to natural persons, to a million kn, so far the maximum penalty has been 500,000. We have made changes to the safeguard measure of withdrawing the driver's license in a misdemeanour procedure and we have adapted it to nom technical law in criminal proceedings, so it is now much clearer, when this measure is started to apply, the solution so far has not been so clear. So, between these two readings, we respected those angles. nom of the technical remarks of the Committee on Legislatives, Advocacy Club for Croatia, GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Hrelje MPs, SDP Representatives Club, Orsat Milenić and Peđa Grbina, and some of the other articles in this direction I have spoken. So, you who have had observations, I suppose you've noticed, if you haven't, you'll notice in the final attached text of the law, that we've respected that, therefore, and I expect that through this reading, there are potentially more conjectures, but I think that this is finally, definitely, quality regulated law, actually this law on amending and supplementing the law on violations, and that it will contribute to the quality of the work of a part of the judiciary that will deal with the violations, but also the parts of the administrative authority that determines the infringement proceedings, these are some bodies of the finance ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121224	Thank you, too, Mr. Martinovic. You have two replicas, the first line has Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121225	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. And even in this law, and in those laws that you mentioned about courts and courts, you explained these changes with rationalization, with the burden of certain courts, and with the fact that there are no more cases in the criminal courts now, so it's better to connect the misdemeanors, end them and connect them with municipal courts. Time will show how good it is, how much sex offenders will manage in the municipal court and how much it will contribute that citizens do not wait so long for debates, litigation, etc. And of course, in that rationalization, you weren't consistent, which is why I went to replicate, because you've returned some municipal courts and you've left some permanent services that have more cases than some municipal courts, and even now that they've joined up with breaking courts, you know that I'm thinking of Nova Gradiška and that it hurts me that you haven't left the municipal court in Novi Gradiška even though it was promised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121226	Thank you. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121227	It's hard to answer all the questions, it's hard to meet all the expectations. You must believe and I believe that the Croatian public believes that the Ministry of Justice with its resources, but also with you, is working in the best interest to make a truly rational judicial power and therefore, that network of courts in Croatia. We have also done this move in this direction and with these intentions and we are the first, therefore, initiative because, before and before, therefore, the process of regulating the judicial authority, so the network of courts, in the state, is something that has happened before us, which is what takes place, and it is a common job for all of us who are involved in politics to sort it out in the first place, for the benefit of our citizens and to speed up the processes so that the right, that is, to come faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121228	Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121229	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, so teaching what you said, so the network of courts is something that will constantly be processed in the Republic of Croatia, there have been more amendments to the law, here we are talking about infringing courts, which means, this is the Law on Infringement Courts, the consequence of these changes is, most of all, that the infringement courts have joined the municipal courts. So in my opinion, there is a question of purpose to the existence of a High Violent Court. Because we no longer have criminal courts at lower levels, they are attached to municipal courts, whether it has any purpose to continue to have a high criminal court or those cases should be derrogated, transferred to county courts, because in some order, so those courts that are above municipal are county courts for criminal and all other proceedings, so I think that in some future it should be thought that the infringement cases should also be decided in the second degree by the county courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121230	Thank you, too. He wants to talk you out of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121231	It's legitimate and that kind of thinking, and I have to tell you that you're not the first, so we've given ourselves that kind of thought and those before us who've been thinking about adjudicating infringing courts to the community. But the waist was on the stand, so that at the moment it would be harmful to cause a challenge. We believe that these departments that are going to deal with the violations will still be engaged in a specific branch of law and that this high-level offence at least one more time needs to remain as it is in order not to slow down the rights that I was just talking about when I was answering. So we didn't want to do too many earthquakes, it was me who would say fear, we think this is a good solution, that the High Violent Court that solves in the second degree versus all those who deal with violations, and I just said in the introduction that these are not just courts of the first degree, but that these are some administrative bodies that decide and in the second degree, the findings appear High Violent Court. So these are our reasons and we believe that at this point there are no conjectures, there is no time to mature in that direction even though your thinking is not illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121232	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. She's the first one. Maria Jelkovac in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121233	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final draft of the law, in the first reading we also discussed, and there are no major changes between the first reading and this final proposal. In fact, the Proposer has also respected all those remarks which have been made and put in place some of these proposals and in this final proposal of the law. What may be important to emphasise once again, that the Criminal Code was adopted in 2007, came into force on 1 January 2008, it was changed twice in 2013, the third amendment was made in 2015, and these are actually the fifth amendments, they are the direct consequences of the reform, the mini reforms we have practically brought here in the Croatian Parliament, and it is implemented through the reorganisation of the network of first-degree courts and the corresponding amendments to the Law on Courts, the Laws on Areas and Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council. The aim of these amendments is, in fact, to bring municipal and criminal courts together and to improve the management of courts and to carry out as effective as possible the affairs of judicial and judicial administrations. Infringement courts will therefore no longer exist as a special type of court, so it should also be regulated in, technically, the law itself. The merger of municipal and criminal courts is, in fact, from the fact that significantly over the past period, the inflow of criminal cases has been reduced, thus reducing the burden of offenders. That is why we believe that this reform is in fact well proposed because it will be able to make more effective use of both people or judges who have worked only on criminal cases so far, and they will be able to work on other subjects, or they will be able to be redistributed where this is more necessary and where there is a much greater burden on the number of cases. What is still to be said is that, in addition to this, several provisions have been amended to comply with the CAP regarding the decision-making and the right to compensation for the costs of the proceedings and the limits of the examination of the first-degree judgment. In order to implement the law itself, there is no need to provide additional resources in the Republic of Croatia's budget and since we believe that this law is good and that it is proposed as part of a judicial reform that will also have positive effects, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121234	Thank you too, Mr. Orsat Milenić, in front of the SDP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121235	... I'm not going to repeat these greetings and messages until now, so I'm just going to look back at some of the principles that I think we need to solve in principle when we're dealing with these issues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] First of all, I could not agree with the finding that we have abolished the misdemeanor courts even though I am in order to abolish them, but what I was saying before, I am sorry that no step has been taken to the end and that we have not carried out the full suspension because as long as we have a municipal, criminal court in Zagreb, a municipal, criminal court in Split and a high criminal court, we still have a criminal trial. And that's how it is. And that's something, and I understand these reasons, and I think what the ministry should do, and that's to at least bring one strategic document to see what the goal is, means what's the next step because if this is an interphase towards the abolition of a completely infringing judiciary, then I understand it and I support it. But it's something to mark that we all know where we're going, in which direction we're going. The second thing is, there's a whole series of indiscretions that happen today. I'll tell you one example. The return of the Municipal Court to Sesvete and now there should be appointed new judges from the Criminal Court in Zagreb, I think 18. You know how much the judges physically cost there? None. It's our reality and so you have a whole series of places, I've just set this as an example. So we will now pass past their will to transfer 10, 12, 15 judges to court to the Council who will have no place to sit. And that's something that's Croatian reality. And then when the possibility of solving the case falls because it will necessarily fall, then we will face the same problem again. But it's technical stuff, and I'm not going in there right now. The other thing that I think we missed here and that's something I was hoping would be the next step in reforming breaking legislation, and that was a different way of punishing. So, you remember, we here 5, 6 years ago for the first time in Croatia applied that rule to pay half the fine if paid within 3 months. And that gave great results. And that was one step that made it possible to actually do what is being carried out today, which sent a message to citizens that they should be respected, not break regulations, if that happens, if they're neat, wages immediately, that they're going to, so they're going to pay half. But the best and the most important thing is to unload the system. But what the next step was supposed to be, and we were announcing it then, I was hoping we'd go in that direction, which is that we're finally in this country and in a misdemeanor procedure, and primarily in a misdemeanor procedure, starting to tie the fines to income. There's no movement without it. So we gave it to the citizens and it's changed, this possibility of punishment. But as long as you have, if someone goes through the red light and pays the fine, I don't know, 2,3,000 kuna. Someone who has three thousand kunas to pay, that's his problem. Someone who has 30 or 50 thousand kunas will pay for it and offer to pay for it once more. One of our former colleagues here, a parliamentary representative, remember when he was stopped, paid two thousand kuna, so he said here's four, because I'm going to go back. Thus, such punishment does not affect. And most countries, which have ensured compliance with regulations, especially traffic, have this binding. If you make a lot of money, you got a big salary, you're gonna pay more than the one who's got more. Why? Because it gets you so much. Someone who has 3,000 kunas of pay, he has 300 tenths, and someone who has 30 thousand is tens of three thousand kunas. And I know it's a big step that's not just about this, but when you went on the change, when you broke off the misdemeanor, even though I say, I don't think I've been lifted and unmade by the end, then you should've thought about it, and we should've had a debate about really starting to adapt to punishment on property opportunities. It's the only way you can achieve a purpose and really eliminate and punish that perpetrator who's arrogant, who has a lot of money and who doesn't really care. Let's face it, it happens too often to the cops on the road, that even when they stop people, this guy pays him and he tells you here's more, I don't care. In fact, that punishment doesn't touch him at all. It's the country we live in, and it's something we need to change. And I'm saying, we have a lot of positive examples in Europe, both in the EU and outside the EU, which are, in fact, speaking in that direction. So you have punishment where you will receive, in tens of thousands of euros, the penalty will be paid if you drive too fast. Sure, but that's if you have a salary, maybe hundreds of thousands. And that's something that, I appeal to means that, here it's too late in these changes, but to be one of the things where we change our approach and where we're actually going to send an additional message that breaking the rules doesn't pay off. As far as the rest of the law is concerned, of course, what I said wasn't brought to an end, and that's why we'll be held back as a club. Because we can't support something, if we've gone to an end, then we should have abolished the High Violent Court and these municipal misdemeanor courts, but in the rest of what you said, what you said and changed in traffic, etc., that's something that's correct, but I'm saying, since no story has been brought to an end, we're not going to support it, we're going to be restrained. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121236	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj. Someone's pressed, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121237	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary and Assistant Minister of Justice. This is essentially, harmonising with the recently passed Law on Courts, where simply nothing new is happening, except that the Courts Act is disastrous, where numerous municipal courts have been shut down. They were made at least unjust and unjust. I will still mention our largest county of Split-Dalmatia, where in fact Split has received two of its courts, Split 1 and Split 2, it seems to me to have been called that, and in fact nothing has changed. Mostly, the largest area, so, the Dalmatian Zagora has been left without a municipal court, regardless of what we have since 1865, the Sinj Municipal Court as the centre of the Dalmatian Zagora, which was opened by Emperor Francis Josip that year. So, the Austrians, then, when we were under the so-called. By occupation, when we belonged to a state which was so that Croatia was not independent, then the court was opened. Now imagine when the court is open, now you, my lords, are here and say, in the Dalmatian Zagora don't need a court. Tribbing people from Vrlika to Split to travel 100 km, there are no people anyway, we have no organised transportation. They need jobs that were scheduled in Dalmatinska Zagora now in Split to centralise, and of course there is simply the goal of centralising power, not of decentralisation. As if there will still be a permanent court, where the president of the municipal court in Split will decide what they have, how many courts, how many which and a terriblely good law to destroy what has been so far. But when cities or centres, the Cetina landscape is larger per capita, there are more residents than Lika Senjska County, and by territory is larger than Međimurje County and now, means, in 2018, this government fell, as much as it cares about mountainous areas, regional development, decentralisation, e, when Austrians, when it was during the time of the Kingdom of Serbs, when there were Croats, Slovenians, one Yugoslavia, the former Yugoslavia, now democratic RH free, e, now after 28 years of freedom of the Republic, we are going to shut down the Municipal Court in Sinj in the heart of Dalmatia Zagor. So do you know what the effects, gentlemen of the Ministry, are for that end? First of all, we have huge projects now, not just a mistrial, I'm going to say that this law is no good about the courts at the beginning. We have agglomeration of huge projects in this area, only in Sinj 240 million kunas, where we have to have people in the land to register it. If the president of the municipal court sends our people down to Hvar to work on a permanent trial, it simply cannot be done, so we're going to fail the project because there's no municipal court. So the projects are going to fail. Secondly, you have abolished one institution, so we are losing status or city, symbol of the city and centre of Dalmatia Zagora, and people will have to travel 150 km in one direction and in another, regardless of the fact that in the military Dračevac we do not have a bus stop, which is very difficult for people to reach that area, it is more than a shameful relationship to the Dalmatian Zagora. Same case with Trogir. The Mayor of Trogir made a video of how long it took him from Trogir to Split, with a video, for 4 hours a man traveled. Al, absolutely this power doesn't care, it's important to centralize, it's important to satisfy your party's skills that have a card, that's the most important thing, and what is being extinguished by the institutions in our areas, I'm mostly repeating to the Dalmatian Zagora, which is forgotten by all, except for the days of Alka and the Great Lady, the days of the reeds, the days of the Vrgorje prosciutto, e, then you're rounding up, we see you in makeup, you come to paint, you love tradition, humanity, knighthood, you love our history. However, you are shutting down in the heart of the Dalmatian Zagora an institution i.e. You turned it off. And now this law, if it's going to be a misdemeanor court like this, will certainly be answered by a bear dog, and no criminals, certainly he'll have to pay the penalty, that's a fact. Now imagine how bad it is for this neighborhood. The lawyers from Sinj must now go to Split, pay the costs, the judges from Sinj must go to Split, these are the increased costs of the Ministry at travel costs, people must, so the poor must travel 200 km, that is their costs. So you're hoarding costs instead of creating and building institutions in these areas, investing in these areas, remaining people who have completed the judicial exams, those who will be judges, practitioners, you're essentially moving in and that few people who could build in that area and who could create in that area. I was giving these amendments when it was the Law on Courts, so nothing was achieved by this, except centralization of power because it was, of course, easier to control all judicial proceedings that correspond to the rulings. It's the only one, I don't see any other interest, except an increase in costs. Why would a man from Sinj or, I don't know where, travel from Vrlika to Split if everything could be in Sinj. That's 40,000 items, 40,000 x lawyers x witnesses x that's a pile, that's 20 million kuna just costs a year, 20 million costs. Few municipalities have such a budget in the Republic of Croatia, so, not small amounts, don't put out institutions, 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia are empty, everything is centralized in Zagreb, everything, and even membership for the tourism community of HT, everything in Zagreb and that power is centralized from Zagreb, and then, of course, it's very simple, they wonder why the mayor of Zagreb has the biggest club, they'll have even bigger, when it sucks up money from these parts and strengthens its club, then it's opened up some road, I saw that some of the Krapina seem to me, I don't know, a new line towards Krapina, Milan Bandić has secured money, he's here one MP, he's not provided a line, so now the Middle Age, so for the first time we have a line of, I don't know, somewhere, that he't know, that he's secured the transport line with the bus, you see, the Middle Age, so there's something new and the Diaries to be to secure one line to Krapin... I don't know what's going on in Split. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And basically with our money, it's centralized towards Zagreb and that power is centralized. And once again, send this to the minister, he came to Sinj, the painting was in Sinj, the mayor was also coming, I wanted to deal with it together, but he said he would solve it himself, he didn't solve it, whether they didn't care about the Dalmatian Zagora, they didn't care, the city is dead, Trilj is a dead city, here, dead, Tijarica, burning up that part of the Imotski dead town. It's the same sonic landscape, the sonic section of this one according to Helvo... Dead, dead. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why does a judge who judges at the Municipality court in Sinj live in Trilj, why would he travel to Split, let someone explain it to me. If the costs are double because of travel costs, is it necessary for the Department of Justice to pay. And this misdemeanor court, now the harmonisation of the law, it's just funny, you shut down institutions, the judiciary doesn't do what it's supposed to do, it's not the ones who robbed the Republic of Croatia, it's the grandmother with the bow that sells her product down on the street, and that's the point. I would ask you once more to consider ordering the Minister because he is not here, Bosnjakovic. He took a picture in Sinj and said he would solve the problem with party colleagues in Sinj, that the municipal court in Sinj would be. But unfortunately from Emperor Francis Joseph... Minister Bosnjakovic also said that Dalmatinska burns in the centre is Sinj... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The court of municipalities has been shut down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It wants him to be an outpost, he wants it to be this, it depends on how many judges will be exclusively about the president of the court in Split and you deny me if it's a lie. So it depends on the president in Split, and by no means, the same thing is with Imotski, Imotski is the most forgotten. It's as if it doesn't exist on a map, a dead town. No matter what fast roads you're talking about, it'll be a pre-election trick, it's a hoax. I'm listening in Sinj one 20 years will fast road start to build.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121238	Time Mr. Bull, time Mr. Bull. And you have a replica, and you will be able to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121239	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121240	Mr. Babic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121241	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, it's too small, but I'm too short a minute to deny what you're saying. When we talked about the Law on Courts, we intensified our talks with Mr. Bošnjakovic and the Ministry itself, so what you're saying turns out that Imotski has no court, that Sinj has no court and actually has a permanent service, a different organisationally securely made. We discussed the number of cases, the merger of criminal courts and how much they can actually have and we agreed in that part with Makarska, we have the Municipal Court in Makarska and that the permanent service of the court in Imotski remains. So neither people nor lawyers nor any of them are going to Makarska, but in fact everything is going on in Imotsky itself. As far as the road itself is concerned, I owe you one answer, so we're on the road, we've talked about it, we've intensified it, for this year there's a set of funds for two Vukadinović and Venice, that is, for the very track and the determination of the route in this year. I'm sorry when we're so populist about it, we're telling the truth, but that's what I had to say to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121242	It's been a while. Here you go, Mr. Bull, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121243	Well, here's to the public, I'm sorry you didn't vote for this amendment, if you'd given it to me, I would have voted. I was in the ruling majority, I was giving these amendments because I didn't support it and I was majority, I didn't support the budget for it. It's easy for you to check, so you'll see. So I don't speak populistly, I'm a people's representative and I say what I said until I was a representative. For 20 years, we've been promising to get together on the highway, so ever since it was made, it's 15 years. From the day it was made there were compounds. The Dalmatian Zagora colleague Babic has been bypassed. The Dalmatian Zagora is dying, the institutions are shutting down. The only thing we have is promises. And to put into the budget or to keep a permanent municipal, municipal court and not permanent courts, we now depend on goodwill. ... Imotically from the president of the Makarska Municipal Court and we in Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? So we have too many promises. There will be promises now, there will be ministers now, there will be European elections now, there will be promises and there will be, there will be prosciutto, there will be wine. But I'm interested in what will be done as a representative of the people. What they're gonna do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121244	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Bull. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121245	The next amendment is to the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Act, second reading, P.Z. No. The 394th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. Dear Secretary of State Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121246	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, a violation order is a special decision on the offense. The offender has the right to object to this decision, so the complaint is, in its legal nature, a form of appeal and is decided by the Court of Justice or the High Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121247	A representative of the club? Nothing. Thank you. We'll vote on the amendment then, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121248	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 394, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the amendment has been declared at the beginning of today's session and we will now vote on an amendment which the motionor does not accept, please vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to vote on the final draft of the law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, and we also need half the majority of all MPs, please vote. I find that most votes, 80 for, 33 abstentions and 1 vote against the law on amendments and additions to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121249	Now, there's one proposal we have to agree on, so I'm going to ask you. Since there's a gentleman here... Martinović, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and Assistants,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just a little bit...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Listen, how about some seriousness? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So since the promoter is here, it is proposed that the point that should otherwise have been the 10th one on the agenda but belongs, the proposal is this ministry, the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to additionally finance projects to implement an integrated system of land administration to put it on the agenda now, but for that I must have your consent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121250	Dear Vice President, I don't know, do we have to vote on that? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121251	Not only if...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121252	How can we decide when we don't have a quorum here, so I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121253	No, no, I don't need to vote just asking if anyone's against it, if there's anyone against me, I won't do it, I'll take it back. No one's against it. Okay, then let's go, I read it. ... And here you go, Mr. Bull. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121254	Well, in principle, that point is predicted today as far as I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121255	Yeah, it's scheduled today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121256	It is generally envisaged and here I will be agreed only to return the Municipal Court of Sinj to Trogir and that is, at least let it be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121257	All right, all right, all right, all right. It means: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the additional financing of projects for the implementation of the integrated land administration system, second reading, P.Z. No. 531; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure stipulates that the laws which, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are to be approved by international contracts as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. The Rules of Procedure were conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on State Budget Finance. Does Mr....? Martinovic's representative, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, gives an additional explanation? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121258	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. So here, as you have heard, you have before you the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty concluded by the Ministry of Finance under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So it's translated into additional funds to edit land books and catastras. So it is a very favourable 19m-euro loan and it will be in line with this contract, which was signed, used exclusively to improve and raise the quality of land books and cadastres in order to ensure our citizens and investors in the Republic of Croatia quickly and effectively arrive at land-booked cadastrian excerpts and now to shorten that path. So this is the usual procedure for such international agreements to be confirmed, this is how the Constitution regulated the law, and such a law is before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121259	Thank you. Excuse me, they say I called you Stjepo Martinović, these are some past reminisces, Mr. Juro Martinović, thank you very much. He was, someone was waving, well, it was a run-in but then I... would the committee reporters take the words? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121260	. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for additional financing of projects and implementation, integrated land administration system, second reading. P.Z. No. 531 is the Government, the debate is closed. I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that most of the 97 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121261	This morning, at the beginning of the session, we agreed to unite three points of the agenda, it was accepted this morning. These three points are: - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, with a final draft law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 541 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, reporting and verification thereof and amending Directive 2009/16/EC, with the final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EU) No This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on technical and technical assistance and other technical assistance in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and innovation in the field of research and technological development and innovation, in particular in the field of research and innovation and innovation, in particular in the field of research and innovation, in particular in the field of research and innovation. 842/2006, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 543 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, it was accepted to bring this debate together and in accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings and amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate, as always. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. If he wants a representative, some laws have such a long title that it seems to be a whole law soon. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mr. Mile Horvatt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121262	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Parliamentarians, distinguished parliamentary representatives. I will go through these three legal texts that will be united in this debate. Therefore, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. At its meeting on 2 August 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded a reduction in the number of agencies, institutes, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority tasked by the competent authorities of the State Administration to carry out all activities in order to implement the reduction in question. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Law on Air Protection are in line with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency in such a way as to take over from 1 January 2019 the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection and with a special regulation governing and establishing the State Inspectorate in a way that the tasks in the jurisdiction of environmental inspection of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy take over the newly established inspection body. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft law amending the Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/757 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, their reporting and their verification and amending Directive 2009/16/EC. At EU level, the European Parliament and the Council adopted in 2015 Regulation 757/2015 on the monitoring of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport, the reporting of them and their verification and the amendment of Directive 16 from 2009 to the Regulation entered into force on 1 July 2015, is fully binding, directly applicable in all Member States, and provides for rules for the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and other relevant information on ships which have received more than 5000 gross tonnes entering or entering the EU ports, beaches from those ports or are present since 1 January 2018. The first reports of emissions from ships will be made available during 2019. Since 29 April 2015, the European Parliament and the Council, on the monitoring of the emissions of carbon dioxide from maritime transport, shall, by amending Directive No 16 of 2009 in accordance with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, in such a way that professional activities in the competence of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency have been taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection since 01 January 2019. Namely, the Law implementing Regulation 757. The European Parliament prescribes that the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency shall carry out the tasks of receiving annual reports on emissions of carbon dioxide from ships and from verifiers, and these changes shall be taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. It is also not necessary to provide funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of this Act. Third, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law implementing Regulation No 517 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on florified greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation No 842 of 2006. Namely, Regulation No 517 of 2014, provides for the treatment of florified greenhouse gases during their life cycle from production to disposal at the end of use, for florochlorics most commonly used as working substances in cooling and air conditioning devices, as well as heat cranes as well as foam and insulating materials in fire extinguishers and fire extinguishers, as well as solvents. Therefore, these amendments to the Law implementing Regulation 517 of the European Parliament on florified greenhouse gases are in line with a special regulation, which regulates the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency in such a way that professional activities in the competence of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency from 01 January 2019 are taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. Namely, the Law implementing Regulation 517 of the European Parliament provides that the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency shall carry out the tasks of receiving annual reports on florified greenhouse gases, keep track of equipment, trade societies, produce reports, and these changes are now taken by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. And for this Act, it is not necessary to provide funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121263	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas for your exposure. First, he's a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121264	Dear Secretary, you said the Agency's number of air protection agencies has been reduced, but you are expected to protect and reduce, downgrade, that is, the Agency, to reduce air pollution, for example, in Slavonski Brod. However, when you shut down the Agency, what kind of Agency for Nature and the Environment will have independence now that you have joined it with you, in fact they are no longer an independent body to bring, the Agency, I wonder how they will now give their results or you will write them, because they are no longer independent or they will produce some results based on some analysis that is prescribed. So, we've been looking for human protection, air protection in Slavonski Brod, and pollution reduction, you're reducing the Agency that's going to be where now?, will it be dependent on air pollution assessments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121265	The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121266	I thank you, Your Honor. So this is what we discussed on the parent board. First and foremost, we implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision, secondly, HAOP will be an integral part of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. We are working, so we have formed a certain commission that will implement the Ministry's merger with the Ministry itself, and in the process the people of HAOP are involved. For now what is the idea and what is the concept, HAOP will be a special structure unit within the ministry, it will have the character and status of the Institute, experts remain at work, in the composition of the new establishment unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121267	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121268	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates, I welcome you. The abolition of the Environment and Nature Agency is one of the measures that, not enough explanations, which will be the effects, which will save us, we heard in the removal of other agencies that they save about a million, a million and a half kuna, and that eventually there will be higher costs of taking over people, changing records and so on, and what, from Slavonia particularly bothers us, that neither this agency nor tomorrow the Ministry will do anything for citizens of Slavonski Brod, is there any re-sentation of these days to the European Commission and the Council, because it has been nine and a half years since the continuing citizens of the town of Slavonski Brod and the wider surrounding areas are poisoning via cross-save pollution emissions from the Bosnian Ship refinery, and there are no concrete solutions. In addition, it was polluted and water last year, and we didn't get any answers, so will the Ministry be able to do everything and will the citizens of Slavonski Brod get an answer, and will they get clean air? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121269	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121270	I thank you, Your Honor. You know, I'm, I'm saying that experts or HAOP employees within the Ministry will have their own establishment unit that will be the Institute, and the part that has served them will be part of the professional services of the Ministry, accounting, legal services, and so on. We assume that will remain their effectiveness on... That's what it's supposed to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the quality of the data they were processing is going to be the same. We expect it to be a unique public procurement, we expect the general affairs to be unique, too, this time... There will be no administrative council, so there will be no additional financial expenditure in that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121271	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121272	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, today all the replicas have been attached to the city of Slavonski Brod, that's what I have to ask you, here we are hearing today about the action plan and the implementation of the public administration strategy and the merger of these agencies. So I'm just as curious as the Brodjanka, how it's going to reflect the merger just to monitor the air protection in Sl. The ship. And you know that for nine and a half years, the Brodians have had that problem. I hope that the merger of these agencies will not happen anything bad and make them go to the expense of the citizens of etc. The boat and the Posavina County, but here's one part you've already answered, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121273	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121274	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Therefore, expected jobs work at the State Hydrometeorological Institute as a professional institution, manages the state network in collaboration with the Institute of Labour Medicine and Medical Research together with HAUP. So if so far it will be along with part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that is, with its establishment unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121275	The next replica of the respected representative Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121276	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, here, we see in the replicas a lot of suspensions, i.e. attaching the agency, therefore, to the Croatian Environment Agency. We also have a list of these agencies and facilities that either disappear or join. Tell me, do you still have any more complete document that might include analysis and benefits, or lacks, of a procedure like this, or are we falling into this like a goose in the fog? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121277	The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121278	I thank you, Your Honor. Okay, so, I don't know if we're pulverizing, we're executing government decisions, so far we haven't worked out a depth analysis of any possible expenditures. Of course we have parameters of what costs were, until now HAUP at level 2018l they were 72 million kn. So that's what we analyzed, a plan for 2019. 75 million kn was supposed to be. We expect that the combined public procurement of the work of the Governing Council will be much lower by joint services, joint network costs and thus by the cost of HAUP. This is what we can say at this point, otherwise there are 130 employees with work equipment, they will remain a highly trained cook and experts remain in the composition of this institution called the Department of Environment and Nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121279	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Here you go. Please... Yeah, yeah, go ahead, though. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please welcome the Honored Chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Honorable Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121280	Thank you, Chairman, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, discussed at the 39th session of 10.12. all of these laws that we have today, therefore, are four laws. Here we now have a united discussion of 3 of which 2 refer to regulations, and since they were not discussed, I will present a report concerning the Air Protection Act. So, we discussed as a parent working body, as already mentioned, the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is arranged, in a way that the HAUP professional affairs of 1.1 are taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The second amendment is that it is harmonising, therefore, with a special regulation governing the establishment of a state inspectorate in such a way that, once again from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, the tasks of environmental inspection are taken over by the inspectorate. So one formality, environmental protection inspection is transferred from the Ministry, back to the inspectorate. In the discussion on the Committee, it is related to the above-mentioned changes to the responsibilities of professional affairs and to the taking over of the tasks of environmental inspection, by the inspectorates. So it is said that only over time will you be able to see more clearly whether it is a step forward or a step back, which in any other sense financially. As far as we're told, there were no elaborates done in advance, to see what would happen, but to go in this process for some other reasons. With 5 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 3 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the law on changes and additions to the Air Protection Act. The Legislative Committee also escaped a technical error, so we unanimously decided to propose an amendment, which I believe the ruling majority will put into the final proposal. Namely in Art. The 40th of this law, we're changing art. Article 109(1) The point is that before the ministry, the agencies were standing there, thinking of HAUP and the Croatian accreditation agency, now that HAUP is being abolished, that is, the merger should be deleted only by HAUP, not by HAUP. Agency, not agency and ministry. So one word is too deleted, along with that decimal, so this nomo technical amendment corrects that indeterminateness, the more that is immediately in the following articles and the items are prescribed what this ministry of work, and if the ministry we know is competent to implement there is no point in erasing it as a word. That's it, that's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121281	Thank you very much, then I'm opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121282	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, as has already been said here, we have three laws in which technical changes are fundamentally taking place. These amendments to the Law on Air Protection and these remaining two laws comply with a special regulation governing the termination of the work of the Croatian Environment Agency in such a way that professional tasks in the competence of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency from 1 January 2019 are taken over by the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. As regards the Law on the Protection of Nature, on the Protection of the Air, there is a special regulation governing the establishment of the State Inspectorate in that way that tasks in the jurisdiction of environmental inspection of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy are taken over by a newly established inspection, newly established inspection body. As has been said here and so far, so this, these two laws one has three articles, this is the law on this, the law implementing this one regulation, the other law has five articles simply replacing the words, the word "agency" with the word "the Ministry of Environment and Energy". While this Air Protection Act, which has a total of 58 articles, Articles 1 to 47 and Articles 53 to 55, replaces the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency with the words “The Ministry of Environment and Energy”, Articles 48 to 52, aligns the provisions in view of the termination of the work of the environmental inspection and its transition to the State Inspectorate. In these others, another topic that has tried to impose itself here today in the debate, the topic of air pollution in certain cities specifically Slavonski Brod, I would not only be entering my appeal and the hope that this problem will be resolved, but certainly not solved by changes to these laws, but should be resolved in any other place, because yet this unfortunate, unfortunate thermopower plant is located in another country's space and certainly should be dealt with there in another way but I am joining the appeals and the desire to get rid of it as soon as possible and that all citizens as well as the wider surroundings of Slavonski Brod have high quality air, as well as citizens in other parts of our country. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of all, all three proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121283	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121284	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with associates, here is the amendment and addition of the Air Protection Act, or we have a united discussion on three laws. What's important in that law is to say as it was in the introduction, this law has two great things going on, that is, the State Inspectorate Act has already been passed, so I would say that in that sense this is just a compliance with that law. The second topic is the abolition of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. The first subject of the State Inspectorate, we discussed in that inspectorate both in the first and second reading of the law here, we discussed why this great inspectorate, which all the inspections in that inspectorate go, because all the inspections don't go and we need to know that everything doesn't go. The debate which was that at least those inspections relating to a particular procedure and a particular topic should be in the State Inspectorate. Inspections from the aspect of environmental protection and nature are those that will be in that great State Inspectorate. But through that debate, we didn't get an answer to a series of questions that we didn't get today, and we won't get in the near future. What question? When we discussed the State Inspectorate, then we asked a fundamental question, how many people go there, what resources they need, what location they go to, and why we do it all that way, why only what was from the food aspect doesn't go there, doesn't go anything else. As a matter of fact, through this law, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and the employees who are taking over the agency into the ministry will be subject to certain administrations, to the key issue when August 2, 2018. The government made a decision to cut down on the number of agencies, institutions and funds was then supposed to be what we've been asking in this assembly for days, whether an analysis was made, what are the objectives, what are the jobs, what is the point of all this, why are we doing it? I can absolutely agree with the fact that maybe this large number of agencies, institutions and all other things we don't need. But what we need to know, we need to know what jobs are in the bodies doing, and I absolutely agree that we don't need to overlap jobs, so that one agency is doing what the ministry is doing, but the decision to abolish 54 of these different bodies and the reasoning that we get from every state secretary that says, is a decision and there will be savings and we assume that savings will be, now says some number, which is naturally assumed and the savings will be because there will be no administrative council, there will be no more people with something greater coefficient than something smaller. What is the feature of continuous management of the Republic of Croatia is the following. Yes, we've made it very easy to set up agencies, we've established certain institutions, and we're making it easier to eliminate them for no real reason. When we started them, then there was always a reason to be found because there would be a little more room with a better salary and because of certain people. When we shut them down, we shut down because some people can't get rid of each other, so that's what we do. The key question is what was the meaning of the establishment and the purpose of the abolition. When we set up, there were some arguments as to how some countries, other EU countries, had a pandan for the talks, but there was one more thing that we forget about in this abolition. There are jobs and there are activities that you can't do in ministries, but you have to work in some other places for the simple reason that you are forced by certain regulations from EU level, so that you can be more operational, so that you can be more efficient in some things. So, this kind of suspension, and I really feel like little kids were playing or there was a debate who prefers to court Prime Minister Plenkovic, so whoever gets more touchy, that's more crossed, who gets a little less touchy, a little less or more, don't let me cancel this, and I'll give you two so cut it out, it's just my people, it's not work, we really do it like little kids are playing. The last week is before the winter break of the Croatian Parliament. We in this last week, we'll teach everything we need to learn, there'll be a vote on Friday, the voting machine will be sitting there, there'll be hands in the air without knowing what's next. Behind this is one job, behind these people, I mean, we treat people like they're really potatoes, so we move them from basket to basket, it absolutely doesn't matter. First of all, you should know what the point of abolishing a single agency is. Second, you should know what kind of jobs the ministry can do and which the ministry simply won't be able to do because we're going to get back in the next six months. of the EU Commission that we have abolished this, that and that, that someone can't apply or do something or something, or so, and then with the same arguments we will come before this Parliament and with the same arguments that are said to be abolished, with the same arguments we will set it up. Why? For what? Is it because we have more laws so that we can say here in this assembly, there were so many laws, it's just not a job, you don't work to do it, but behind that there's got to be some point. This is where I look at my colleagues from the HSS, and we remember very well when she was involved with the advisory service, she was called the advisory service. We had two readings of that law. I've been discussing why you're changing your name unless you want to, you know who's making the most money in Croatia at the moment? Those who make records, and those who make seals, which we have abolished, and We have not abolished them. Those who make the most of the records, we'll just move those old records, have some new records with some new name. Then it was debated, the service had to be changed to Agriculture-Forest. Two readings were the law. There are two readings we are, I think there was one very constructive and serious debate that she is doing, why we need, how many people, which is the point, whether she's good for farmers or cattlemen related to the forest, whether there will be better relations and everything else and somewhere the law came into force in February, I think it's February 4th or 8th. Everything I say, I say wrong, in early February. Here we are at the end of the year, we don't need her anymore. They can all be in the ministry. So what were we doing? So what could they not have been in the ministry a year ago? Well, I mean, we're playing ball. The job is that you know and I want to have in that process that, that and that, in order to get the best results, I have to do it anyway. And that's why I'm going to stand up, with the same energy that we're having here from this pay phone explaining why she has to be told it doesn't matter, it doesn't have to be. At the rate we're changing these agencies, fascinating. So in principle, there really are some that maybe, I find it hard to judge here, but let's say from a couple of resistors you could estimate, you shouldn't, really shouldn't, double the job, people who are employed there and they don't know what they're doing themselves, put them on, put them together somehow differently, but you need to know a few things about it. In addition to those who will certainly have benefits, those who make records, we will turn some who are now public officials and subsistences into civil servants and subsistences, so when the law that we will separate public from the state will immediately be in another position, and you will be able to choose some people who will because you will not be able to do all of them again but you will have to take them, so you will do all kinds of things, as in this country, in the next month new solutions will be written, new solutions for annual vacations not to talk about the other, the whole service will actually deal with the papers. When we deal with paperwork, we don't deal with what's essential. So we've been discussing the State Inspectorate for two weeks now, and we don't know how many people are going to the State Inspectorate, we're still discussing the abolition of certain agencies, I've been asking how many people are today, there were about 800 people we're transferring from something to something. My people, just to get too many answers why. If not whoever said, this agency, so many employees, the job, that job is being done in the ministry, the ministry will be more effective, we'll do it, I'd say fairfully, there's enough arguments but the argument, the decision has been made by the government, I'm sorry, it's not an argument to me. I would much more appreciate any minister who would fight until the last drop of blood to have a body and let the agency not because there are many of them but because he understands the processes that are being done. The ministry is making solutions, doing administrative procedures, and with us the ministries are not as complex as they should be to think strategically. When you ask about any strategy, the strategy is not done in the ministries or rarely in any. The strategy is ordered outside by someone who does. So that's where we should first and fundamentally see how much we need the Ministry, whether we need everyone, the processes that happen in the Ministry, the policies that the Ministry is dealing with, and the Ministry doesn't have to deal with the fabrication of a large number of papers, is that then we can lift all the county, all the municipalities, all the cities, we have in one place the Ministry, and we're all working here. So, just that, there's one head that knows what kind of state we want, do we want a central state... The departments where everything happens, do we want a decentralised state, so the Ministry is making policies. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was one of the mandates of the minister, my dream was that the Department of Civil Engineering was not issuing building permits because the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning should deal with construction policy, spatial housing arrangements, and building permits should be issued on the ground, where houses and buildings are only to be controlled and decided for, I don't know, if the Republic of Croatia had what I know, building a nuke and if it were absolutely, but some kind of procedure, so, 10 building permits a year, that's the point, not to drag, and all of it in the Ministry. Why? That he who minister was a great boss. Well, the big boss is the one who's got the processes where things work, and with this abolishing agency, I'm sure things might eventually work out in 3-4 years, but next year it won't work because people are still looking for where they're working. I've gone a little bit, but the topic is, this law has, therefore, two things, there's an inspectorate on which we've talked about why, as well as why there's this other issue of abolition, and in general, it's being abolished, abolished, have bodies that had their legal personality and their OIB and their registration. We'll end it all, we'll do it in half a year, and we know we're slow machinery. The state apparatus is like that old train going on coal and when you stop still that coal on the train, it's still going, it's very hard to stop, but when it stops, without the new train, there's no movement. We're on that path right now. We want to stop him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121285	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of MOST and independent lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Slaven Dobrović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121286	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the legislators of the Law, therefore, headed by the Secretary of State, all colleagues and colleagues. So here are several laws united and we heard that the reason why they are today is on the agenda other than the inspection and abolition of the HAOP Agency of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency in the Ministry. Yes, all State Secretarys, Ministers, when asked how and why, therefore, who, on the basis of which, which are analyses, are all caught by this famous conclusion that has literally two sides from August the other, I guess, this year, where it is concluded that 54 The Agency is moving, therefore, from the list of existence, of course, they are not eliminated as such, except for their functions, but they are attached to various bodies. And here on that list are many agencies, and what's first of course being asked, I've asked myself that question, so this is a very serious thing for one country that 54 institutions are publically removing, removing them, attaching them, and the first thing that occurred to me is that this could be the result of very extensive work, a very extensive analysis that would include, therefore, a series of criteria and these criteria would, of course, have to be made public, clear because it's a general public matter, therefore, of the primary national interest. But when we ask for such an analysis, then we realize that there is no analysis and that this list is made up, we don't know in what conditions and in which atmosphere, however, here it is. So, we don't know what criteria, we don't know whether these agencies were considered individually, whether they were involved, whether the resolution ministers were considering it, whether these resolution ministers were then, because they don't know exactly what it was, whether they came down to the service, whether they talked to those agencies, familiarised with the work, whether it was primary or simply a matter of reform, therefore, the state administrations were groping in place, then it was necessary to generate after the latter one list that would show the government's determination. I don't know, unfortunately, that conclusion concerns me personally because that's the principle over my knee, so we're going to put together and keep going that way. I will mention here the Croatian Peace Institute, which I was not able to discuss the other day because of the term. It's also an example where when you analyze things, everything goes in favor of not being reasonable and we're just going to see, so we're going to learn obviously from our experience, so if we're ever going to be able to learn from our own mistakes. Okay, HAOP, so, our Agency, here we are now amending three laws, 4.5, I don't know what we've already changed or we want, I think there's a big deal ahead of us, that a total of over 70 regulations and regulations, plans, programmes, should change, therefore, in the protection of nature, air, climate change, then it's very much about various registers, so the information we're doing here is going to impose a very strong job, so a very strong administrative job in order to even carry out this one mere fact, so all the services have to work, they say that it will function uninterruptedly within the Ministry, but this complex physical work on a general formal arrangement, normative arrangement. The important fact here is that this agency is a professional body, so it cannot be and must not actually be part of some administrative procedure because policies are based on opinions, of course and data, statistics that this agency collects because this agency was created by two agencies a year, two days ago, so environmental protection agencies dealing with environmental information and the State Nature Protection Institute, which deals with protection programmes, so, our many, thank God that it is because we are a country with many protected landscapes, from the ecological network, etc. It's a very large area, I don't know anymore, 35, 6%, so there's a lot of work to do. So these are professional jobs and I think I've already talked about it from this place, these professional jobs are getting more and more complicated because our insights, ours, I mean civilization, the state of the environment, are constantly coming together. And it's a rather dynamic process, so scientific research in the field of environmental protection, in connection with nature, therefore, ecosystems in the broader sense of words are experiencing major changes. And these changes have a constant impact on the policies that we have, and that's why it's a body that needs to be strengthened and can't be seen as a single art agency because there's probably people on this list who can't know from the title what that agency would do. However, an individual view of things, an analytical one would suggest to everyone that this case is not about such an agency, but a very important agency, we heard a hundred and ten, 16, I don't know anymore, it's not an important individual number, but I know that jobs are actually multiplying there, that these information networks are increasingly complex and that a large number of opinions, therefore, are being issued, an assessment of acceptability to the environmental network, etc. And that they should simply be allowed to work. So, they also have a strong connection with science, so with various universities and institutes because it's not a simple problem, so this is not a simple story, it's a complex interdisciplinary story in which a necessarily this kind of agency relys on such institutions. And in this sense it was very important to cultivate as a separate body, of course that the work of that institution can be rationalized, and it must be seen what they do, how they spend money, which is their product, which is the quality of the product, therefore, these are all important issues. But this way we're actually jeopardizing this current likely quality, and here, I'm afraid of what's going to happen. I will also draw attention to the letter of scientists in this matter, domestics, who have given warning and concern about the government's intentions, so we here in the Parliament to allow, or to carry out this intention, thoughtless and unfounded intention to join the agency into the body of the ministry. I will finally draw attention, I have come to the possession of a letter which is very interesting, so it is a letter from Mr Martin Shaman, who is the chair of the European Network of Nature Protection agencies in which he shows his gratitude, so the letter was sent to Minister Čorić, thanks for the net held session, so the body gathering, so it is representatives, leaders or leaders of these institutions in Europe, which was held in Zagreb, thanks for a high-quality meeting. It talks about the quality distribution of HAOP within this network because there is an exchange of information, therefore, not only information but knowledge, work on new methodologies, approach, discussion, therefore, the exchange of information about certain problems that arises, it is precious. So, he shows gratitude and shows concern because of course he heard it there because it was now probably in September or October, concerns about the intention, so the Croatian government to drag the agency into the ministry because he is afraid that integrity, identity, will disappear, therefore, because of course, it will formally disappear and it is interesting that the example of the UK that has also passed in the reform of the state administration intends to abolish agencies, but they have clearly shown the criteria and they have said that the agency that is allowed to stay outside of the ministry is the one that meets at least one of the three conditions. This is to perform a purely technical function, to carry out activities that require separation from policy or third to require independence to be established, so as to establish facts. And it doesn't take much philosophy to establish that in this case we are in the United Kingdom and in their reform of the state administration that HAOP would fall off the list of examined agencies that should be eliminated in the sense that their businesses are being dragged into the state apparatus. Here, I must say from this place that the Most Club of Independent Lists cannot support these legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121287	Thank you very much, now we'll move on to an individual debate, the first respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121288	Thank you very much, I have here a number of laws that we have as obligations, I don't know what they come to the Assembly in general because it's simply our regulation and you told the secretaries that this is our obligation, that these regulations are fully binding on the Republic of Croatia so that someone has accepted those directives who on behalf of the Croatian people I don't know, I don't know if there was a referendum on that, so we're still in the assembly discussing it in those regulations. And as for the debate that has taken place here, which is the most important issue that means protecting the environment and nature, and I really ask the question once again if we have the protection agency, the Croatian agency, which is the purpose of shutting down an agency when it makes decisions or assessments, must be independent. If it loses independence within the ministry, that body must be independent if the environmental impact study is assessed by that agency or if it measures the harmfulness of certain things in the environment. The basic question that is raised in Slavonski Brod or in regional waste disposal centres such as Mariščina, such as in Dalmatia Zagora you have done in the heart, means how many Ministry of Environment Care, in the heart of the Dalmatian Zagora in Lečevica, where we have the meaning of groundwater, where we have specological research, we have caves that prove that they are connected with these waters that are directly connected with the Adriatic, with the Cetina River, which is, that's OK, so that's OK. Of course, it is your goal to shut down those agencies in the ministry, because the Ministry of Environment has for years instead of dealing with environmental protection essentially now, once citizens have to protect themselves from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And if we some body that has to be independent of fusing over "Lex Andrija Mikulić", if some body is fusing within the ministry from which citizens have to, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, from which citizens have to protest to protect the environment, then I don't see that point. I can give countless examples, as far as Slavonski Brod is concerned, we expected that in Slavonski Brod there will come to a reduction of air pollution, air pollution is not reduced, you are reducing the only independent agency that would operate independently and protect our nature and the environment. We have a problem with the black hill in Zadar, and for years since I entered this assembly, I've been talking about this black hill because I've had such action in my area because from the Long War industrial cost from the ferolegura factory was supposed to be deposited in a abandoned mine along the Cetina River to make millions, so that this mine would be covered by changes in the sanaci material, in order to resuscitate that mine, and these are harmful things and it was proven with the European Commission has announced a lawsuit by the Republic of Croatia for the black hill in the Ravni kotars. I've been there for 10 times the air, who will measure the Ministry of the Environment or this agency that you've shut down will be written in fact and whether it's harmful or not, and there literally people live in the flats, be careful where you once produced the most fruit, vegetables, the best quality near the sea, I think. You take the highway, you see suddenly a black hill that fell from Mars, I mean incorrectly set up, so how do we behave in the tourist state? The European Commission must also announce to us that if, by law, the Republic of Croatia does not remove that black hill that you can see when you go to Dalmatia on the live side when you leave Zagreb, you will see what it is. And that's where people live mostly people of Serbian nationality, but less importantly, but poor people, I mean, people forgotten nobody cares here, Mr. Horvat you're from the quota of national minorities, nobody cares. Even the party president, your Milorad Pupovac, was born close by, you know, when he visited them, when they were pre-election campaigns. I often come down, when I go.../incomprehensible... I stop by these people and talk about their problems. Is that people are forgotten by everyone, and most of all by Milorad Pupovac and you who are in the quota in the environment. So what do you serve? It's not just protecting the criminals who were in Vukovar as Milorad Pupovac, it has to protect the people who live in this area. And all of us who talk like this tomorrow are nationalists, like this, like this. As far as I know, Mr. Horvat you've been an artilleryman, you've been precise, so you answer these questions correctly, don't tell me I wasn't sure if you were an artillery man. Answer me precisely, which is why Croatia, the Ministry of the Environment, is acting this way that Croatia is suing the European Commission threatening to sue. These people live in a difficult situation, look at their wells or chat rooms or what we'll call if they don't have a water line, and you'll see that it's black water. People consume water that is catastrophic. So I'm asking you to, of all of us, to protect the institutions that must be independent, a similar problem was at the Peru thermal power plant, these were battles, unloved battles, in order to prove the harmfulness of such projects at our sources of natural water or that they were the largest pools of drinking water. Also, we have several regional centres directors, more money is spent, so far we have been able to separate waste and waste. Directors, deputy directors, supervisory, problem of Marinery, right, this part of di is a waste, and that's how it's going to happen in my burn. And we have the greatest potential to safeguard, instead of passing a law on the protection of the breach, that it can't behave like that in nature, we all have here all the debate on Lex Andrija Mikulić, to combine what needs to be combined, to be at the head of all these institutions, and otherwise a man experienced about mining things with... It's a scientific story, it's not here, so I'm not gonna talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I was saying. Therefore, I ask that institutions that are independent, which protect the environment, the environment is the most important, and what Croatia has, still has a clean environment other than critical points. The critical points are from Slavonski Brod and we have meaning agglomeration systems where large sewerage systems are and we have EU funds but this is slow, and I'm afraid that Juncker, Macron and you, because of the migrant crisis, will be able to cut our funds, the EU funds of cohesion funds are announced because their idea and the thought is not that those 5.5 billion that Croatia will pay us back in 2014-2020, no, that Plenkovic can talk, Tusk, Juncker, that Prime Minister Plenkovic can talk to someone else, they are interested in staying there where he will stay and you'll see that we're only 900 million euros away from the promised us or intended 10.5 billion euros. You'll see that the cohesion funds will cut us off. You've already announced 2 billion euros less and that's 15 billion kuna. We have to worry, we don't need the EU or the Council of Europe, we don't need anyone, we're the ones who have to protect our environment by God and by man, we buy it from our children, it's not ours. We don't have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt and you're talking about ships here. So do you know how many stains there are, look at the cards. We have oil stains bigger than the city of Split in the middle of the Adriatic. In the middle of the Adriatic. We're only lucky to have these currents so they don't come up the coast, otherwise this 20% of GDP would go into the wind. Because people would see oil stains on the shore. So these are serious things, we need independent bodies that will be independent, professional and competent to assess certain environmental impact studies because the environment is above all. It is a greater shame for us to do harmful projects in my Dalmatian Zagora area, like, Gorski kotar or Ravni kotars or irrelevantly, they are greater damage if we make an ecocid, endanger drinking water sources because the water is more expensive than oil, it is another thing that we do not know about these masters, what we give in the concession source Cetina for 5000 kuna per month 2015, 2014. The government debated 5.6 seconds, sources of Cetina to foreign companies, so they sell water, they have profits, it's another pair of freaks. In Croatia, we must create conditions such as in Iceland, Ireland, that we have free and preserved water in these areas, to protect the environment and not to have basically just a wasteful company, release companies, only to have their own salaries so that we have the most expensive water in Europe. Once again, let's protect the independent agencies and keep our nature and environment... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121289	Thank you, thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121290	Well, thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, you've guessed well, so why independence is important. In fact, the investor is always interested in profit and it's a normal thing, so he wouldn't normally invest and there's nothing to object to. The Ministry is always a body that allows and removes obstacles, but when we talk about the impact of certain procedures on the environment, then we need an independent body that will make its decision independently, unburdened, without political interference, based on facts, facts that occur, so through normal verifiable methodological procedures. That's what's important, and that's why we have to fight for this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121291	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121292	As an expert, you know what environmental conservation means, which means for the future of the Republic of Croatia. Sustainable development of the Republic of Croatia is the only concept that can save the Republic of Croatia. That's a fact. My experience is that the Ministry of Environment has always worked against the interest of sustainable development, people within the ministry, I remember when Mladneo called it seemed to me a man, when he wrote in the Long War where the factory was, where that waste was industrial, then he wrote about them that it was poisonous, they got tumors, this, this, what in Sinj was supposed to delay that it was healthy, that they could fertilize land, fertilisers. So he was telling us to postpone. Of course, because he was getting under the table, there were 50 euros per tonne of that delay, it was already agreed with foreign investors as much as the cost of industrial delays should take place along the Cetina River. I'm locked up, locked up, and I know what the system is, while they're on the loose today, who knows what they're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121293	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, you spoke of independent institutions. I've got a facility in the neighborhood called the CIA, so far there's already been five fires, we don't know what's burning there, and we get a recommendation from HZZ to close the windows. I've recently been to an ecological tribune where I asked the ladies from that institution if they ever measured the air, water, the amount of poison in the country, and they answered no. So, there is no such thing as an independent institution, which, therefore, deals with it, so that's where citizens have already experienced big fires five times, so it stinks, and we have received a recommendation from an institution like the Croatian Public Health Institute to close the window.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121295	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121296	Well, that's when the body is independent, so the Croatian Institute of Public Health was supposed to be a body that is independent, which should measure the air quality then, you get the information, and officially you can't get that you need to close the window because of the fires that were visible every year, that's what it says, and you don't get. It's the same thing with the base stations. We have information that there has been an increase in tumour disease in the Republic of Croatia, that the highest number of tumour deaths. We don't have any information from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in the last three years. And while the World Health Organization in 2013 said that the possible cause of increased mortality from tumors is radiation, electromagnetic radiation, which means that we are here in one vacuum, and they are doing whatever they want, nowhere does it work in that way the Institute for, it needs to be an independent body, we have to have, but these are interest groups that protect, they are essentially sponsors to political elites are they to survive on The surfaces must have their sponsors. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121297	The next replica of the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121298	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bull, I really can't help but wonder what you're talking about. If anyone had the chance, then you had the MOST and we, and I, while I was there, we had Minister Dobrović, environmental protection, the minister was, we had the first government, you destroyed the first government, you had a second chance, the government solved the same thing, you destroyed the second government, you had six ministers, we had the best jobs where we had to get to work and solve things. Karepovac, who solved this? Well, she solved this government and let's not talk about what anybody's done. However, if anyone had, he had that chance and he had ministers to solve what you're talking about. You're talking about something you could do, you just need to get to work. And to solve in opposition, it's blowing in the wind, it doesn't matter, you've had a chance to solve the problem you're talking about, but you haven't solved the problem. If we don't get to work, we won't solve the problem, and you didn't want to take the job, you took the opposition, and then you talk like you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121299	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121300	It is clear to me that if you were in every government, on the list of the Most, on the list of the Living Wall, you would be in every government and regarding Minister Dobrović, if you were listening to Minister Dobrović, my Dalmatian Zagora, not Marična, would be a waste separation, would be sustainable development, but, of course, that because of us, we got rid of it, we didn't crash, but you guys were overdoing, Oreshkovic collapsed, let me finish if possible. Most of the time, my colleague Misic, Slaven Dobrovic, is a man of expertise and listens to Slaven Dobrovic, and if he was allowed to work, he would surely have been a rogue mob and other mafia and working on not being a minister, believe me, and you know it very well. And mostly, you will be in all the authorities, elected on the list of MOSTs, the Living Wall, or I don't know on which, that's the point, and I respect you there. And that you will forbid me to tell you what I will speak of from the opposition ruling, you will never. You won't, did the people here choose me? with 11 000 votes [[Intruder: Thank you]] Not like you. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121301	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121302	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, 54 agencies are abolished without the right background, without real analysis, which will bring to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, there are some minimum savings, but the fact that this Environment and Nature Agency that was supposed to give answers to the citizens of Slavonski Brod and the wider surrounding area, when the emissions of harmful gases from the Bosanski Brod refinery will be reduced, that they should be given answers to who polluted the water, we did not get answers. Citizens expect some kind of plan of activity to speed up with that. But, unfortunately, by abolishing this agency, it will be lost for another year, is it 6 months to be reshuffled, while the Internal Design Regulation, the change of panels, write solutions, will deal with ourselves, instead of dealing with problems and dealing with our citizens. Here I welcome the members of the ecological associations from Slavonski Brod who still held the stands today on the impact of polluted air on human health. where's the message of the profession do something. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121303	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121304	And I also welcome and thank the Associations and the people who do it voluntarily who influence... the air on health and those people are basically protecting, educating our citizens, which is air pollution in Slavonski Brod when you said and of course, that no one is against turning down numerous non-essential agencies, but when we talk about those that must be independent. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Al, which is logic, say 50 and something the Agency is doing, and exactly Minister Kuščević received 2000, we have 2700 people, 2700 people, and 50, are not shutting down they do nothing, but they are coordinating this with lex Mikulić and that way it will work out, and absolutely nothing will be solved except what Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritash said that a year will write solutions about the annual, the appointments, the resolutions, and that part of Slavonski Brod will be, it will not be primary to them, but will be secondary to them and they will not care about it. Maybe with the election he'll get there, the prime minister, so... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121305	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Mile Horvat will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121306	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, thank you for the debate that was very constructive, so we would, therefore, send the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature to the text of the proposed Law to send the Amendment to Art. 40 which is exclusively nomotechnical, nomotechnical nature, so the nomotechnical expression of this article is arranged and we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121307	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121308	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Air Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 541. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Environment and Nature Protection Committee, the representative accepted it and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. I find that most votes, 80 votes for, 17 abstentions and 3 votes against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121405	We will now go to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 429. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Based on Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. 85 Constitution of The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121406	Thank you, Vice President HS. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. The second reading, i.e. the final text of the laws amending and supplementing the laws on the protection of the environment, the drafting of the bill, has been approached primarily in order to improve the authorisation system for professional environmental protection and nature tasks, through grouping by species and complexity of professional businesses in accordance with EU standards and practice, as well as improving the system of monitoring the work of authorisingees and withdrawing consent, introducing a lifelong training obligation and limiting the system... to legal persons and craftsmen of a natural person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, we have proposed these amendments and additions: Provisions are amended to empower the authorising officers to carry out professional environmental protection and nature activities through the grouping of professional activities in groups of types and complexity of business and, instead of the previous individual 26 professional jobs, proposed to give consent to 8 groups of related professional activities. Grouping is also proposed in line with the complexity and types of business, as well as the necessary qualifications of individual environmental experts, taking into account the procedures implemented under the laws and specific regulations of each component and environmental burden. However, there is significant simplification of the outcome of consent, i.e. the reduction of administrative burden on legal persons, given that it is the same experts with the same qualifications. The period of validity of all consent issued for the performance of professional activities shall be uniformly settled for 5 years. More precisely, the possibility of abolishing consent is defined, the exemption for passing an expert examination for natural persons who are employees of authorised staff having at least 10 years of working experience is lifted. An exemption shall be abolished for the submission of an expert examination for natural persons working on professional and administrative affairs, from the field of environmental protection in central authorities of the state administration and inspectors with more than 5 years of working experience on environmental protection inspections. It also improves the system of monitoring the work of the authorising officer and confiscation of the agreed consent and introduces a lifelong improvement obligation, and the authorisation system is limited to legal persons only. In this way, we believe that the quality of the documentation will rise and procedures for environmental protection will be accelerated. Practice has shown that the length of procedures themselves and their quality is directly related to the quality of the documentation or professional bases. In line with the provisions of the European Directive on the control of the threat of major accidents, which include dangerous substances, they are further in line with that exemption directive, which concerns the prevention of major accidents involving dangerous things. In addition to the above, during the previous application of the Environmental Protection Act in practice, there was a need to amend some of the provisions and this proposal for a law, including the following amendments and additions: Definitions and concepts have been harmonised with the provisions of specific nature protection rules, in part relating to the Natura 2000 ecological network. Further clarifications have also been made regarding the strategic impact assessment of strategies, plans and programmes on the environment, especially with regard to the interpretation that strategic environmental impact assessments are not implemented for all EU funding plans. A more precisely regulated possibility of amending environmental protection measures and environmental monitoring programmes prescribed by the environmental impact assessment solution, i.e. by a solution to the assessment of the need for environmental impact assessment. The environmental reporting system is further improved in such a way as to take into account an integrated picture of the state of the environment, which is today generally accepted in the EU environmental report. It simplifies the process of coming into agreement on the policy of preventing major accidents, ensuring that environmental reference centres are determined from the ranks of institutions not financed from the state budget and, in accordance with other regulations, carry out activities that can be established by reference centres and ultimately, to implement the Government of the Republic of Croatia's conclusion of 2 August 2018 on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, trusts, commercial companies and other legal entities with public authority, this proposal for a law of the Ministry of Environment Protection to which the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is attached takes over all its tasks and settles all other issues related to the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. The work of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is closely linked. By joining HAOP, the ministry does not question the independence and importance of carrying out the business processes that are currently being carried out in HAOP, but by rationalising joint services, the single system necessary for the implementation of the environment and nature policy is achieved. Therefore, in the second reading, between the first and second readings were adopted, certain, accepted and incorporated into the final text of this law, certain differences in solutions, according to the opinion of the HS Legislatory Committee of 10 October 2018, were accepted observations and we have legally completed the article. Article 28 53rd, in the opinion of the Environment and Nature Protection Committee. Since 10 October 2018, observations have been accepted that a natural person, a craftsman with a legal person, may be authorised to carry out professional tasks in the field of environmental protection and nature and are accordingly completed. 1st, 7th, 11th, 18th and 68th too, a new article has been added. 15th of which is changed. 57th law applicable to the intervention plan, that was the suggestion of the Maritime Code, now the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, now the Laws of the Sea, entered into it and the plan of intervention. In relation to the first reading, articles relating to environmental protection inspection have also been developed, since the tasks of environmental inspection will be taken over by the State Inspectorate, and articles 54 to 67 have been arranged and finally the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature has addressed the amendment to Article 58, which is a nomotechnical statement and, respectively, nomotechnical expressions, and we accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121407	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, the Honorable Chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121408	Thank you, Chairman. On 10 December, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection held a session held by the home working body under this proposal of the law. In addition to what is being amended, as the Proposer has already said, he would like to say that, in relation to the first reading in the proposed final draft law, the opinion given in the report of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and, in that sense, accepted that a natural person craftsman with a legal person of a company may be authorised to carry out professional tasks in the field of environmental protection and nature, and in that sense, an amendment has been made in 5 articles. The same idea was given by a craftsman who complained about discrimination against the craftsman. Furthermore, after the opening argument, the Committee highlights the importance of the plan for the protection of the environment of the Republic of Croatia as one of the fundamental documents of sustainable development and environmental protection. It was pointed out that a public debate was held in 2016 on a document called the Design of the Environment Plan for the period from 2016 to 2023. However, as there was a change of government at that time, the political crisis was the same at the public debate, so the opinions of the central authorities were delivered, but it never came to the government so that this current plan in 2018 to 2025 was almost the same identical, so at least its authors said it should not carry out a public debate, so it was not even implemented but is simply going forward with it today. It's a bit absurd, because in 2019, we'll bring in a plan that's been going on since early 2018, but we're where we are. As regards this document, it is therefore explained that it will remain in force as part of the two-year plan for the period from 2018 to 2020 because one other document would be needed and that is the Sustainable Development Strategy which has not been adopted. So regarding the implementation of the Government's conclusion. The opinion is expressed that by taking over the business of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, it will be challenged by professional and independence. The agency also carried out a number of professional jobs that were the basis for administrative services in the ministry, which will now be carried out within the ministry itself, as we know, that is the part that has in fact encouraged, I suppose, the amendment of the law. The question was also asked whether an analysis was made with an assessment of the financial effects of this accession, the proposing representatives stated that the Agency's accession does not question professional independence, they expect financial savings but that an exact study was not done as well as for the Air Protection Act that I had previously represented. The Board noted that it would monitor the effectiveness of the new system, or new organisation. With 7 votes for, 2 abstentions, we have proposed the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, also fellow Horvat has mentioned the amendment, namely, this law amends the original law and deletes two articles but does not delete the title above those two articles so that all the titles remain hanging in the air and we have given unanimously on behalf of the Committee of Amendments a purely nomotechnical nature that erases those two titles. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121409	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists will be spoken by the honourable representative Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121410	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome all present once again. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, this amendment brings more content than it has been in the previous three laws, so it is not only the accession of the Agency to the Ministry but a whole series of amendments that could be assessed as those which contribute to the quality of work, i.e. The functionality of this law and everything the law regulates, but I'm not going to comment on it right now. Joining the agencies to the ministry is still a key problem here that I think is not acceptable to the population of this whole problem, and that's one big mistake, one big experiment going on without any assessment of all the repercussions that we're going to have as a state of that. Of course, the secretary of state can keep saying that nothing in particular is happening, as rationalization is doing, you might think, the administrative council that had a terribly large budget is being abolished, these are all little things, so it can't be compared to ordinary administrative changes, all that, these records famous, up to memoranda, and I don't know what, business cards. What is so threatened is independence because when you drag the body into the ministry, clearly there's a vertical, so we lose what's necessary for an agency like this, I won't repeat myself, so I'll stop at that. So, the damage we're going to have from that is probably big and from this position inconceivable, so we're going to never know when again, change it. Here, we can't support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121411	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121412	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with fellow esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support our proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. First of all, I would like to say a few words about what my predecessor, Col. Dobrović, ended up talking about an environment and nature agency, which is being abolished. And based on the government's conclusion of 2.8 this year, when 54 different agencies, institutions, institutes and other state bodies, institutions whose jobs are to the greatest extent, are to be placed in charge of central state bodies in most of the ministries. So, I join my colleague Dobrovic on one part when he talks about the importance of the Agency for Environment and Nature. To all of us who took part in this portfolio, we know how much the agency itself has done to its reports and to which and which reports it has shown the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia, for a four-year period, how much and how systematically these reports have been made, how demanding they have been. They expected a significant engagement of ministries, state bodies and other institutions, which are in one way or another related to environmental monitoring. This, since the Agency was founded on the basis of the law, in the Croatian Parliament, I think we debated it twice if I'm not mistaken, just that report that the agency made, so it seems to me for the period 2009-2006-2009 that we discussed in 2012 or 2013. And then in 2009, 2013 we discussed it seems to me in 2014. So we discussed the distance of 2 years in that report that the agency itself did. And that report was given the support of all parliamentary representatives, all clubs, because in one place could be monitored for a long period of time by the state of all environmental components, therefore, both soil and water and air etc. From that point of view, I would ask and expect this job to take over the ministry in such a systematic way and to have the same amount of attention, quality, make up and other reports, because these reports allowed a series and were the basis for the adoption of a series of measures and projects and tasks that were ahead of the units of local self-government of regional self-government and government. And this report served many ministers, later in work, in writing laws, in setting up and adopting measures. So I expect that the ministry will, after implementing this law, after the agency has ceased to carry out such same intensity and approach, make such reports that I say are very welcome. I would yet conclude that this clear law, we are in line with the State Inspectorate Act, since environmental inspection is no longer an integral part of the ministry, it is now actually becoming part of the State Inspectorate. I don't think so, and I don't agree with my colleague Dobrovic here that we'll save a few members of the board. If the review is looked at, it finds that the government's executive conclusion will reduce the number of state bodies, state institutions, and I think that many times in Croatian society we have witnessed how good it is to reduce the number of state institutions, that there are too many, then on that trail I read part of this law. Although I must say that when the government reached its conclusion on 2.8 of this year, it planned to abolish 54 different institutions, however, through the implementation of the law, to determine that a certain number of these agencies and these institutions remain, so at the end when we draw the line under the amendments of all these laws and in the part of the formation of the state inspectorate, we will see that there will be no 54 bodies that will be abolished or will cease to exist, but their jobs will now be done by other state bodies, but it will be around 44 or 45 such bodies. Therefore, I support it, because I think they wanted to or did not want to admit it, it will be significant savings during a long time, but I agree with all those who are calling for the jobs done, especially those bodies that have done these jobs well, especially those whose products have been widely used in the system of state or local and regional self-government, to avoid losing them to the quality of the jobs that have been done. And I agree, I can bear this in mind, that just reports on the state of the environment in the Republic of Croatia were done very carefully according to the prescribed European standards, which we could talk about air quality, compare the quality before and at the beginning of a period and at the end of the period for which the report was being adopted. Anything else about passing professional exams, as regards limiting the number and type of complexity of professional businesses, reducing from 26 to 8 exemptions from passing an expert exam, therefore, all of these measures, I hope that it will lead to a simplification of environmental protection behaviour and will simplify both natural persons and craftsmen and legal persons, treatment and when it comes to doing environmental and nature protection work, I certainly support. We have also shown ourselves about this in our first reading on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, there is no need to repeat it now, but in any case we will support the Law, but we expect the Ministry to continue to do as it was done in the Agency during the time it existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121413	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in a name to be spoken by respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121414	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. Here we are in the second reading of the amendment and addition of the Environmental Protection Act. When you vote on a law, then you have arguments about how you vote, FOR when everything in the law is acceptable to you, against when the solutions that are in the law are not acceptable to you at all, and you are in principle when the main solutions are acceptable to you, but you have one or two things that you think are not well done and, of course, they are always important or crucial things. If this Law amending and supplementing the Protection Act wasn't the abolition of the Agency, we at the GLAS and HSU Club would have no problem, we would vote for this Act and say we have amendments and supplements that are good, correct, promotional and all that is concerned. What it means is that this conclusion of the Government of August 02, 2018 and the Decision to take 54 of the Agency, which the Institute, which the Funds have abolished, I think we discussed last week, we debated today, when we have the opportunity to see what is being abolished and how it is abolished. And from this pay phone every time you hear the same thing, I'm going to repeat it really in a few sentences and I'm not going to talk about it anymore, at least not today. When you do an over-analysis, when that over-analysis shows that you will be faster, better, more effective, or at least at the level you have today when you terminate an individual agency and engage in the Ministry, then it is, or if you have arguments why it is so, why is it better, why is it faster to do something, then of course you can support it. But this decision, which has been the Government since August 02, has no arguments, there are no reasons, there are no, you are nowhere from any secretary of state, usually state secretaries are those who defend the Law, very rarely there are ministers, everyone says, the government's decision is referred to, they will be saved, because they will be the administrative council we will not have, we will have this, something less will be these executive officials, so there will be savings. But nobody talks about business, nobody talks about content, nobody talks about goals, nobody talks about intentions, nobody talks about the fact that it's going to work, that it's not going to be questioned by the implementation of certain laws, that it's not going to be questioned by the implementation of certain measures, that we have this, that we wouldn't have that problem, and that it's also about this Law, we would support, this is, if I haven't been wrong since the time the Environmental Protection Act was passed, the fourth amendments. And now this law you can follow exactly one other thing, which,... All of us, one of us sitting here in the Assembly, is that renaissance parliamentary representative of general practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are few of us who understand each other at all, but those who follow a particular topic and who somehow think that they understand more about the subject, can also see what is happening at the world level, what is happening within the Republic of Croatia and in what sense is changing the laws. Somewhere back in the '80s, I first met the concept of environmental impact assessment in the first place, and I have to admit that it was then one, quite a big surprise what to do and how to do. At first, it was a form, and later it turned from form into something else. Somewhere out there in '93. Or '94. In the ministry, there were four people, so just to see what time period I was talking about, it was '94, four people were dealing with environmental protection, so in 2018 we would have a big Ministry that deals with environmental protection, it's not a unique Croatia, so it's a topic of environmental protection at all to make a man aware of where he lives, how he lives, what he does, what he needs to do, what he needs to do at all. At this point, I know that there are no climate change at all, clearly speaking and thinking Trump and what you can see is that there are no climate change thoughts and budgets of the city of Zagreb because that office that deals with these items has those embarrassing, say, 20,000 kunas, that is when you put the item in so that it doesn't shut you down. But it really, changes exist, we're witnessing changes every moment and what's important, it's important that the laws when we change, change them in a way that makes the laws faster, better, simpler, more expedient, simpler for those who work under those laws and for those who use them, who, in fact, have control, who make sure that the laws are well implemented. So I highly appreciate it, and I think it's good that it's decided that environmental protection business grouped into 8 groups, for a simple reason, it's simpler, it's easier, it's more obvious to everyone, it's more obvious for colleagues who work at the Ministry to do their jobs, but also for those who will be in charge of certain jobs, it's easier to group these jobs. There are two other things that, of course, you see that we, regardless, have in our first reading of this Law when we discussed, we discussed the essence of the Law, and the Agency we mentioned along the way. You see where that story with the 54 agencies is going that we're actually having very little discussion about the essence of the law, and we're discussing the principality of the Agency and the consequences that it will be. Likewise, when you look at the explanation, it says in the explanation of the remark we accepted> and that is the fact, the remarks that were in the first reading which on the Committee on the Parent Working Body, so on the Committee on Environmental Protection. You accepted the remarks, then it was that remark of a natural person yes or no, we asked you how many you had one. And we said that you don't leave one behind, and I think even I said it very simply, so leave that one, you open up a problem for yourself, we're all attacking you for it, so it won't give you any mess. So we're not discussing these jobs at all, and it's extremely important that they're grouping together a simpler someone who goes by authority will be simpler, but you'll be doing the same. There are two other topics that I would like to specifically specify, one topic is a strategic impact assessment on the environment. When the strategic environmental impact assessment was first introduced into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, I should think very much now so I can remember what year it is, but I will remember. I have to admit, she was a stranger to all of us. She was unknown to all of us that the strategic impact assessment on the environment was, the more she came to these premises from the Netherlands. So, the Dutch people, given their relationship to the environment, were the first to introduce a strategic environmental impact assessment, I first met there with one fact, I know it's already too late, I'm going to talk here because I need to praise this part of the law, and I can freely wait, look at the phones and everything else. I met in the Netherlands for the first time when someone went to build a house that had to dig up the material, so the country and everything else was sent for analysis and determined the state of the country and before going on a mountaineering trip, had to get all the poisons out of that country and throw everything else out to get to the city planner where the country would go, so where did the Dutch go? The Dutch had also introduced a strategic impact assessment on the environment first and foremost on their plans, then I had the first chance to see when they worked, they had the same large number of municipalities and cities as we do, I think they also have them in the numbers here, there are some more residents, but in numbers they have here than Croatia and they work on a new spatial plan, then for the spatial plan they were doing a strategic impact assessment on the environment that evaluated them to say, the economic zone in which they would have a nursery is better or worse than the economic zone where they would produce tractors. So that was the case, we've been doing this strategic environmental impact assessment a little bit in our legislation, so as we already have the practice of going down a little bit, a little bit there, and she, when she's been brought in, she's put in such a big trouble, then she's put in trouble what her obligations are, so what her obligations are in terms of project planning, so they're said that all projects that are regional and state-level must have a strategic impact assessment on the environment. In this amendment to the law, you've explained it a little bit, I'm afraid that this is still in relation to the strategic impact assessment on the environment will need a little more life and a little more thinking. I have to admit my experience, I would like a good strategic environmental impact assessment that would evaluate the Adriatic and say how many more marinas there can be in the Adriatic. To me it's a strategic impact assessment of the environment, but that's some other thinking that they are, this is a path that goes a little differently. And the third thing, which I appreciate is good in this law, which is an integrated approach, i.e. an integrated representation of the state of the environment. We have a custom of really living in a country where we tend to collect data and keep them in their drawer, and by no means give to anyone else but rather let him collect his data again, and then he will have his own, and I will have his third will have his own. What you teach us and what you somehow learn your whole life, which is that this integrated approach is incomparably better, that it speaks of having one point where you collect, I often do time, often compare it with one closet that has very many drawers and all the data is collected in those drawers, but it's important that you know in one place what these data is, so that the law defines that this integrated display is extremely important. Otherwise, both in terms of the environmental situation and in terms of different studies, you always have those sectoral and integrated approaches. It's sectoral that every sector works for itself and for the rails, they never meet, or anything, and this is that you actually collect data from different places and define them in one place and what's important is that you have an attitude to say and that you can compare it with something. What I'm saying in conclusion is this, this amendment to the Environmental Protection Act in terms of some things is the improvement of the current one we have, is a step forward. On behalf of the club.../incomprehensible/... we at the GLAS and HSU Club have no problem if we consider it a good thing to vote for, we would vote for this law too if this unfortunate agency hadn't gotten in our way and talked to that agency. I'm really kind of, for some agencies I'm absolutely sure they need to be abolished. For those agencies where I'm not sure where you're still getting a set of instructions on the side, don't do it, I kind of always don't think you should make a mistake, so then correct a mistake and that's why we'll be in relation to this law abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121415	Thank you very much. Now, we're going to prevent an individual debate that was attended by a respected representative, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121416	Here I would just once again emphasize what my colleague Bačić mentioned, and before that, both of them called for the government's conclusion on the agencies being shut down, shut down or sold, meaning 54, so there is no one, so there is no one, a colleague Bačić says the conclusion was given, and when we talk about this agency that is very important for the environment and the protection we don't see here in the conclusion, some kind of analysis had one piece of paper from that analysis of his colleague Bačić. So we didn't get some kind of analysis from the government, that we have an analysis that's why that agency is being abolished. We have these strange things that I haven't seen, let's say.../incomprehensible/... but it's not the subject now, but I'm going to mention the production of HT Croatian Post Office, which is what you get. But right now I know, I haven't seen this paper at all. Now that I've been reading the materials, I've seen that in this conclusion there's basically no such thing as the Agency that's very important, which should be independent, which tribals protect the environment, which should give their opinions and conclusions and certain decisions on various environmental impact studies in projects that are questionable, simply that Agency must be independent, that is a key issue. I expect here, here, all the time we talk and mention 54 agencies are shutting down, of course, I'm the first to shut down most of the Agency, but not the agencies that are needed, and leave those that are unnecessary. So, the ones we're going to need, which would be independent, you're putting out of control, like this Croatian Environment and Nature Protection Agency, and the rest of them you're just throwing aside. I know it's good, I say we shut down 54 agencies, but we see that here and the HP production, we're going to talk about it in the second place whether it's going to sell the e-TV that's in our market, it's going to be sold to HT, it's going to be another story, I see it from this paper, where it's going to be a foreign teleoperator and monopoly, but about this, this agency the triba thinks about being independent, and the tribamo is left as a body independent, whether it's going to be called the Agency, or otherwise, it's one by me a minor problem. But when my colleague Bacic says, in front of the club, when he says we have an analysis, here's the analysis. So we have a conclusion, three articles, what we got, we have a list of agencies that are being abolished. So you can see freely in the proposal you have, then, the government's conclusion. Therefore, the tribunal also stressed the importance of this Agency and its independence, its importance in making a number of decisions regarding nature and the environment. So don't do anything just for the sake of the piar. At the same time, you stress the shutting down of 54 agencies, Minister Kuščević receives 2700 new employees through the Ministry of Administration, in offices 2700. So that's one nail, that's the wrong knife. One analysis in such an important agency, is the only thing left of the Republic of Croatia, that's sustainable development at this point. The threats we have on the waste, mainly that we have at these regional centres, the threats we have on waste disposal, like I said on Black Hill, the threat of air, like Slavonski Brod, the attempt of harmful projects like the thermal power plant in Peru and a number of other harmful projects, we have to have an independent, as much independent professional agency, or as they're going to call it, I don't know. She can't be under arrest exclusively by the Ministry and Politics. The ministry and politics, so the ministry is a political part, and this is an expert part. So this is, I think, people who would have to give opinions on certain studies or what not about environmental protection and nature, and I think the tribals would withdraw this law because I simply don't see how to solve it, that another colleague of Bacic you see with your coalition partners, that you try to find the best solution, that this body remains independent, and that's just for the protection of nature and the environment, that's the minimum of what would be and it wouldn't be embarrassing, it would be possible for the first time, and maybe it would be commendable to see this part of the Agency's protection. Secretary Horvat has not explained one word, which is why this Agency, which is very important, these others if they are put out, may need to be put out 90%, but this Agency which should be an independent Agency for the Protection of Nature and the Environment, as something most important in the Republic of Croatia, I believe that the tribal would be well thought out and analyzed has given it well to go under the laps of politics and the Ministry. So we're working to make this body as independent as possible, to make it as professional as possible to protect the environment and nature, not to take away that kind of body as a matter of fact. Here, I ask you for, if we can find out, do I know most of the majority, but if we can compromise, if it's not already agreed, if it's not the Prime Minister's appointment and order it has to be so, I would ask you fellow representatives to withdraw, if it's not already agreed, if it's not already agreed, it's not some end of the world, that because of this agency that is very important, which is independent, which would be one of the most reasonable solutions, evaluations, decisions, conclusions, instructions, questions about environmental impact studies, I think there might be a common compromise in this direction, and all for the purpose of protection and nature and the environment, I think it would be one of the most reasonable solutions of whether or not to be able to be in any of this kind of analysis that you tell a fellow Bačić on behalf of the club, here, I see only one piece of paper and article, we have the three points, we have a list of the agencies that the Agency that are removed, among others, among others, among other people in order to be able to be able to protect yourself, the environments and the environments and the environments that the environments that I think that I'll be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do to make the right to do to take the right to do the right to do the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of the right of The industrial costs, from the Ferolegura factory, the former Ferolegura Dugi Rat factory which the tribal is to be like the resuscitation material of a mine being dragged through, illegally whether the resuscitation material is exactly prescribed in the lab, when the mine is opened must be resuscitated. So that's what the Ministry was trying to do. I would ask you once again here to create a difficult cabbage of people living in this area for the sake of sustainable development because of the importance of our environment, the purity to at least think about and withdraw this law and solve this problem to the most professional people in this agency or how we will call it if it will be easier for you to be in this nature conservation agency, to protect nature and the environment. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121417	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121418	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, in your discussion you spoke about this 54 agency you have here and the list that the government has brought and I thought that maybe you know something more because you're kind of closer to the HDZ there because your colleague Bačić when he spoke on behalf of the Club said that in the end it would be 44, 45, that there would be no and 54, but it would be a smaller number, so I was curious that maybe you knew something about that when it was almost all going to be a smaller number. However, since your debate went further, you obviously don't have that knowledge either, and since you said that your colleague Bacic gave you a replica, we might find something out, and it might not eventually be 54, but it may be another number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121419	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121420	Thank you very much. So I got here lists I got in the materials, here's a colleague of Dobrović... You have a list of 54 agencies, but there are some strange ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, I've mentioned, it's not about HP production it's the owner of an EVO TV that's in profits, HACOM didn't give him approval that he has to continue his activity but it's being sold, so it's not being abolished, some are being sold to strengthen the HT monopoly, to make it even bigger. So we have a HP production that owns HP, which is 100% owned by the Republic of Croatia, HACOM didn't give him permission to deal with, consent, but is, will give it to HT and on the rise it means people who want EVO TV and you get 20 million kuna. So it's not all 54, well he said that it goes out, some are sold to strengthen the monopoly of foreign companies like HT that has a monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121421	Thank you very much. The next is the replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, obviously you didn't listen well, I see that you spoke to a colleague of Dobrovic, and then you were promoted, that I didn't say that the analysis was done, but that the government had come to the conclusion that this conclusion, I didn't say it, and now I am going to come to you as a result of the proposals of individual, or resolution ministers through the resolute government coordination, was originally imagined for 54 state bodies. However, when it started to analyse all and to download additional arguments and data for each individual body, certain bodies were then lagging behind and, for example, the Line Coastal Maritime Transport Agency, which was originally provided for, was then abandoned. Therefore, the analysis has been done and therefore the number of agencies that are shut down to an actual and shut down is not initially foreseen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121423	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121424	Well, I believe the analysis was done the way you lobbyed. Let's just say you lobbyed to keep that agency that you probably needed, you lobbyed to stay the Agency for Transport, and I don't even know how you said it. However, this is a significant Agency for the Conservation of the Environment and the Adriatic, so this is the environment, protection of the environment and nature and of our Adriatic, where we have a colleague of Bačić with bigger stains, oil stains, I said little, they are bigger than the city of Split. It is very dangerous, you are from Korčula, so this agency is very important for both territorial waters and land and we have so many critical points in the Republic of Croatia that if there is not an independent body of people who will deal with environmental and nature protection and if they are under the influence of politics and political powers of political sponsors we have absolutely lost the possibility of sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia will no longer be green, nor will it be ecologically sustainable. Why? Because stakeholders will exploit Croatia against nature, against the environment, against the interests of the local population and we will not have any bodies that will be independent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121425	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121426	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Bulj, colleagues and colleagues. So for weeks, we've been listening to this Parliament say that we have a large public administration, that this public administration is expensive, that we have too many parafiscal duties, employees, etc. And today, it's miraculously counter-debated. We also listen to such discussions ahead of local and regional elections, all those who agree to abolish the county six months before the elections, as soon as they win a mayor, are no longer in favour of abolishing the county. They are in favour of abolishing municipalities and cities, but it is enough for them to win one principle mandate no longer to advocate the abolition of municipalities and cities. Indeed, today is an extremely interesting debate. The opposition comes after weeks and months, it's said that we have as many public administrations as possible, as many employees and as many agencies, funds, offices etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121427	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121428	How do you name it all? And then I was to remove the county and now I'm, they're the biggest, so I can say, they're like a boiler county just a lot of rocks and water doesn't pass but stays in the county and in your voting body stays... County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, in Split-Dalmatia County, the only place where people are employed is in county institutions, companies and local self-governments are dependent on counties. And if I were the first to be elected mayor, I'd do anything to get rid of that county. Here's what I'm saying publicly again. But as far as these 54 agencies are concerned, of course, are being abolished, but I can't lift the agency that it is, it needs to be independent. But you're selling EVO TV that has profits, EVO TV, a state owned by HP, which is owned by the state, which is in profits. You sell, you set up to sell it to HT, a monopoly page, a German, a company. Yeah, that's what it says in these 54. Are you in favour of having a monopoly, to win me, our company is being sold It is, isn't it? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121429	Thank you. The next will be the final word, on behalf of the club of the representatives of the independent lists. Please, colleague Bulj, let your party colleague, Slaven Dobrovic, say what he wants to say on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121430	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Bačić, I am pleased that you agree with my argument and that you have recognized, therefore, the reports that came from the agency that preceded HAOP as valuable and complex and necessary, therefore, to conduct policies in a number of ministries. Such a sequence of thoughts would be that we actually need to consider that decision and I actually call for that thinking, in fact thinking about this decision isn't right either, we see from and this discussion that the analyses were actually done later, and these are again analyses that are not clear, transparent, so with the defined criteria, so we can't analyze anything without clear criteria. It is clear that these 54 agencies are quite different and that there is room here for the rationalization of that apparatus, and for that we are all certainly agreed that we should do so because we want a more rational state, which is less costing and which particular task is carried out with less effort in a cheaper way. However, it is obvious that these analyses that came after this decision have, you say, affected the change in the composition of the shooting list, and I am very surprised that this argument, so it came to me, has certainly reached both the minister and the prime minister. So, if it hadn't prompted such a decision to move the agency because we will definitely have great damages and definitely this decision spoils or threatens the role and the task that the agency is performing. Here I am still calling, I don't think it's ever too late to withdraw any harmful decision, for that is always the time, whenever it's made, it's the right thing to do, to withdraw harmful decisions. So this agency can't just sneak in, it has its identity, it has its own concerns, we haven't talked here, so this reporting, it's not about a simple set of tables. So there's a series of registers, here, you probably know about greenhouse gas emissions, the greenhouse gas register that runs the agency based on which it affects the business of some objects that are large emitters. So, then the polluter registry, then the waste management statistics, and then the constantly expanding environmental information system. So they're constantly added through various projects of a particular probe, here, there, we have, I don't know, in the sea, on the ground, so different tracking systems, not only of the environment, but of nature. So it's a complex process related to, not only the profession but also science. And here I am again from this place, because we heard that the analysis previously wasn't done but was created later, that she, that someone finally put her in one place, looked at and made the only right decision on this issue, which is that she also gets off this list so that it's another agency less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121431	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude the debate in this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will now finish our work today, and tomorrow we will begin work at 9.30 and the first point will be the proposal of the HS Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 10 The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 10 89, 163 and 214. The Rules of Procedure of HS. I wish you a good night. The session was interrupted at 5:09 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-11-0.u121432	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 429th Proposer is Government, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the applicant accepted it and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. I find that most of the votes, 91 for, 5 abstentions and 3 against, are passed by the law. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I most welcome you all, I would like to ask you to take your seats before we go to work, and today we will have the first item: - Proposal for a declaration by the Croatian Parliament on the position of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Way of Bosnia and Herzegovina Let me welcome the chairman of the parliamentary House of Representatives of the BIH Parliament, Mrs. Borisan Kristo, with his associates. ... I also welcome students and students of the Croatian Student Political Forum from Mostar, welcome to you. ... [[Applause.]] So we're off to work. [[Applause.]] The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia on the basis of Article 10. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 89, 163 and 2014 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. First, I would ask the proposer's representative to further explain the proposal, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, president of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia. Here you go.
