ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65963	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP Club to talk about the difficult situation of older people and people with disabilities, especially those living in multi-story buildings without elevators.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65964	I thank my colleague, Alfirev. Then comes fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65965	Thank you very much President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, for 10 minutes, on the ecological bomb in the heart of the Straight Wheels, more specifically in Biljani Donji, where there is a black hill of industrial cost that pollutes. Here, then take 10 minutes off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65966	Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65967	I'm looking for a recess, Mr. President, on the private property bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65968	A colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65969	Thank you very much, President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU regarding climate change and waste problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65970	He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65971	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. On behalf of the Living Wall and Bridge Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss not introducing a GMO declaration on food.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65972	You got it. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65973	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute recess on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65974	Thank you. That's it, six clubs, we move on at 9.50. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] She is the first SDP representative club and respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65976	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club because I want to point out the slowness of state institutions to address specific citizens' problems regarding improving the quality of their lives. Even when financial resources are provided by someone else, we are unable to provide minimum support to citizens in the realisation of projects. That's the problem the media wrote about. What exactly is it about? More than 16,000 residential buildings in Croatia have no elevator. It's more than four-story buildings. Some buildings have 9 or 10 floors. There are more than 700,000 people living there, and many older people with major health problems, people with disabilities, families with small children. Aren't they anybody's concern? Who cares? On the other hand, for almost half of these buildings there are no obstacles to the installation of elevators other than of course cash. The assessment is that the installation of a single elevator costs between 30 and 50,000 euros, so it is clear that it is too much for the tenants themselves especially when working, and we know that there are plenty of old households. But there is a solution in terms of EU funds and this operational programme of coherence and cohesion. It is therefore incomprehensible that such a good opportunity as the installation of the funds from the EU funds is not being used. It is incomprehensible that it is not seen as an opportunity and that it is waiting for the opening of competitions that would thus clearly improve the quality of life of older people and people with disabilities who may have been disabled for months, and some have not left their apartment for years because it is impossible for them because they live in a building that does not have an elevator. When the government doesn't do its job, and it clearly doesn't work unless it's about partner contracts in Agrokor, then citizens take the initiative. And here we have this case where the initiative was encouraged by the citizens' association with the help of our Euro Parliamentarywoman Biljana Borzana. On the other hand, I am not surprised that this is the situation, because the resolution ministry and other competitions is slow, tromo, does not respect the deadlines, is late with the call for tenders, is slow to resolve applications, there are unequal criteria, etc. etc. I therefore call on Minister Žalac to put in, to start and to get into second gear at least, and to do everything, to launch whatever it takes to secure EU funds to address this problem. Because an elevator to these people can really mean saving, saving the powerless. So I call on Minister Žalac to have a little more hearing for the needs of the citizens because there is no excuse for waiting and slowness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65977	Let's move on. The second is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, respected counterpart Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65978	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues in our High House often pass laws on nature protection, environmental protection and, of course, sustainable development and our nature and environment are the most important thing. We know that Plitvice National Park is at risk, we know the impunity on Peru, on the river Cetina. We also know the attacks on the records with harmful projects. However, we have one problem that is happening in the heart of Dalmatia, i.e. Zadar County in Ravni kotars was once the most developed area where peaches, apples, fruit and vegetables used to smell. Today it has appeared in the last six, seven years of a black hill that has 140,000 tonnes of black cost, which means from the TEF plant of the electrodes and ferrolegure factory in Sibenik that has been deposited as a waste. For years, this hill in the city of Zadar’s Straight Wheels turned a little bit into a sinister sight. The cost that has been carried out here under the recovery means that it has been deposited in nature, in a populated place in the Ravni Kotars, in Biljani Donji. This mountain of dangerous black slags can even be seen in satellite videos, so when you take the highway you can also see the tourist attraction of that black hill. For years, desperate locals have called it a black hill. This black hill is already looking for poison to move out of their yard, because in this area right next to the house stands an older population that was protesting, but who cares about these people having water supply so they have wells or boosters and they have black water, and the salad is covered with one black layer, one also a tourist brand, and we need to know that there is only the sea. No one could have done anything, except who cares about those old men. I said at the beginning that this is a huge problem that has been solved for ten years, even the European Commission, our Europarliamentary has raised the issue, threatening Croatia with a black hill in a populated place. A few days ago, I was with the president of the Eco Association Ravni kotari Mr. Belusic, who gave the results to several institutes of foreign American, German and who proved that the cost was carcinogenic. I'm on that hill carrying even an analysis of water, it's not drinking and those locals older population, it's mostly a national minority that place is a Serbian national minority, nobody cares about them, nobody cares about underwater waters, we have two vessels and you can see that hill when you go down to Dalmatia on the living side, it's huge and it's really a tourist attraction, like you're on a moon, a black hill, nothing around but a couple of old people. There was once an eco-production of cattle, now we have nothing. I asked Mr. Mila Horvat's secretary here, he said he'd answer me in writing, I haven't got the answer yet, I sent it in writing. A few days ago, I was in this place with these locals, so they asked me, people are an older population to show you the council representatives and to hand you this individual cost that is carcinogenic, a proven carcinogenic that has and the European Commission is asking to be removed as waste. And on behalf of all of us, I'm going to put on my desk a box that I'm going to open no matter what it is, so you can look at what it looks like, and, of course, on behalf of those people, I'm going to hand this over to the President of the Parliament in a nice wrap-up so it won't hurt, but these people have asked me, but I can't hand it over to every council representative right now. But I pray once again, regardless of this is no longer a political issue, this is an ecological issue, I'm talking about communal management, we're talking about municipal waste, we're talking about classification, and in the nicest part where it can be eco-production, it's Straight Cotari, it's similar to what's going on in Dalmatian Zagora because this same example should have been and that involved me in politics, this waste was supposed to be in a mining site in my place. The one from the Long War from the Split Ironworks, therefore another message to all of us, and mostly to the authorities to finally step back after ten years, but I demand the responsibility of everyone. Of course someone has to go to jail, someone has to go to jail for this. Mr. President, this has been sent to you by the locals...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65979	Thank you. We are now going to a third debate, it is a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, and Advocacy Club for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65980	Dear colleagues. I'd talk about a subject that's been talked about a lot, but there's not much movement, it's a critical thing, and it's a matter of property relations, taken away from land. In the Committee on Presentations and Appeals comes a lot of cases every week, 80% are related to legal property issues. 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Croatia has not yet defined this concept, the definition of private ownership and all the post-communist countries that have annulled the concept of private ownership cannot go forward and that is the key thing that is not talked about. It's actually said, but nothing is done about it, it's ignored by the mainstream media and institutions. There are correlations between these rights and economic development. The countries where private property is not annulled today have GDP, you have Germany that lost the war de facto, and has a surplus of hundreds of billions of dollars and where we are. When you look at what's going on with us I repeat it again and you need to repeat, who's going to come to the country where 5% of the land books are arranged, where the Australian-Hungarian cadastre is, then you have notaryization, registration, permits, until you get a building permit costs exactly the same as you're about to build home. In Russia, only 3% is paid for that red tape. We have an army of bureaucrats, a third of them are artificially employed as in the former Yugoslavia. But what's going on here? You have besides efficiency and resolution, you have the right to exercise, you have bribery and corruption, and where are the penalties? In other countries, if you are a civil servant in the administration you have prescribed five years in prison minimum and loss of pension and other civil rights. That's what you've got in Singapore, there's no corruption there, and that's where we bloom. Now look at the final example of the IRS, now they've stolen another prince of the shivering he's been there for ten years. What are the victims of this is violence, which is the institutional violence of the state against the people that are being carried out here. I'll just mention, people who are looking for a return on property, it's not just the owners of apartments, there's about 4,000 apartments that were taken from people, that's land, the business building where the buildings were built, people can't bring back. In Face, a recent case came to me from like and was taken from his property in '42. For years, he's got all the papers he can't come back. The Croats can't go back to Zrinj,... The fighter and the other, and Zrinj was burned in '43. The year can't come back. What kind of state is that? The law changes laws with such intensity and speed that they cannot understand themselves by legal experts. Who will come to a country where laws change invest when the business cycle is ten years old and you change the laws every year. No one will come to you here until it's settled we're not going anywhere, we're going to stay nailed to the cheeks of the Balkans. Total detachment, we have a total distinction between rights, regulations and performance on the ground, and that is the core of all problems. In a functional state it is expected that when you prescribe the law that it will be implemented on the ground, with us you have the prescribed laws, every year more and more laws are implemented, products in this House, I do not know how long the law has passed here plus those EU regulations that must be prescribed, adapted, implementation on the ground none, it is just a smoke curtain and legal camouflage. What's missing? We miss it, and until it's said, this is taboo topic in the media. Why do we lack legal and political legacy? Tradition? Because it was annulled in the former state. But it's not the only thing that's missing, there's a philosophical tradition missing, it's not to be talked about in the mainstream media, it's taboo topic, it's also a mental legacy of communism. What do you say in the end? Until we solve those problems that I've caused, we're not going far, we're going to stay nailed to... The Balkans and we'll be the end of the republic's tomatoes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here in the end, as it became a tradition here, I will give the Croatian weekly to our lumens behind me, the Croatian Parliament, and here you have again a list of Croatians killed, you also have Okay, come on, thanks. [[Invader President: Thank you, colleague Glasnović, thank you very much, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65981	Please. Let's move on, it's an honorary colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, the GLAS Representatives Club, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65982	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The topic of today's break is something that will certainly be addressed by the Republic of Croatia and the EU and the world this century, which are climate change. In the context of climate change, one of the major problems is waste. What we have is the fact that waste has been unsuitable for years, that waste dumps have been growing, as the esteemed representative Bulj said as hills, yet the biggest hill we have is Jakushevac and it is a hill that remains absolutely once and a picture of the city of Zagreb, but Jakushevac is a problem of waste in the city of Zagreb, is not a theme of reporting, the theme of reporting is to resuscitate the waste dump of Karepovac. I may be saying wrong, but I'm Bjelovarčanka, so you'll have to have a autograph and you'll have to know what you're doing, but also you have to have a new dump where you're going with new waste or what we know, we know that according to all the standards, the part that's not going to separate has to be acceptable that it's going to have to be delayed somewhere. In Split, the wind bursts, now, if you go into a recovery project in a way that the wind bothers you, then you have to have something to stop that wind and you can't stop it in a way that says "stop the wind" because if they blow the storm, they'll wear it one way, I won't say the smells, but the smells, if they blow south, in another direction. When doing a project so large, then it must have an environmental impact assessment of everything else and also have a hologram. There's nothing out there from the hodogram. What we had a chance to see in the media is how the wind wastes, then we had opportunities to keep the citizens quiet and really need to listen to the citizens. It is good that the minister in charge of environmental and energy protection is going down, but his departure will not solve the essential problem. If we don't, and if we didn't go well in the project, the least problem is that we didn't go forward, we're not going forward, we're going to stop the project until we create all the elements and create the conditions for doing it right. This is not the first time in Croatia has gone into such a project. Some other cities have gone, they've been rehabilitated, and we don't have to look at what Europe is doing, we don't have to look at what Slovenia, Austria or some other countries are doing when they're rehabilitating because some other countries when they're recovering, it's a new job that's related to waste, and it's called urban mining. When it's rescheduled, then it pulls out what's quality, and that's what it's worth, but let's say we don't have time, that it's important that we don't deal with it now, but it's inadmissible, that we don't know that there's a storm in Split, so let's say the maestral afternoon, it's inadmissible that we didn't know that when it comes to the recovery that all possible smells will open up, that they'll jeopardize a really decent life, I really don't dare say that there are some gases that can endanger health, but what's certain is that the gases that threaten normal life are developing. I can't imagine what's going to be out there late spring or early summer when the heat starts, when the tourist starts, which is going to be a new tourist attraction, to say "here we are in Croatia doing so, so here's a chance to see it," I don't want to see it in the city of Split, I don't want to do it in Croatia. There must be experts in Croatia who have already done this, who point out, don't listen to us coming from this pay phone, so we open ourselves up that we haven't learned some things on the way and we know some things, let's listen to experts. Stop the project, it is much less a pity that it is a little bit now, let's see what we do and let's not turn Split into a city where it will not be possible to live and we won't even talk about tourists and let's not endanger the decent life of the citizens of Split. I say once again that I dare not say how much health is at stake, but there are certain other substances there, therefore a good move is the minister that went there but that all of this would not remain on behalf of the club in our apartment, I have also sent a letter today, or a request to the government to give the correct answer as to what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65983	Thank you. Let's move on, Live Wall and SNAGA's club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65984	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since June 2005, the GMO Act provides for the obligation to label GMOs with declarations. It is a procedure that is routine in many EU countries and even those outside the EU, for example, Serbia. In neighbouring Slovenia or nearby Austria, all food without GMOs is marked with a clearly visible label, with a number of other tags, e.g. whether food without additives, whether it is colorless, whether the food was organic, has a quality mark. It even has a mark on how animals are guarded or killed. In some countries, for example, France or Austria is forbidden to feed GMOs, and we feed people in Croatia. What is very important here to stress, that it should not actually mark food that is without GMOs, but rather, it should mark food, which contains GMOs, because in this way, the situation is not clear to the end. Why these declarations haven't been introduced in 14 years since the law was passed, they could best sum up the former Health Minister Andrija Hebrang's statement, which we can't do because it would damage corporate profits. It's his statement, publicly available, can be found on the Internet. It's very interesting to think, which would damage the profits of corporations, if they claim that all that food is healthy, acceptable, means basically they promote healthy food, they have nothing to be afraid of. Marking that some food is GMOs by their logic, sales should actually increase. It is very interesting to know that the new Minister Tolusic is in session of the Committee on Agriculture in December 2016. means 2 calendar years ago, publicly claimed that Croatia would introduce those declarations, that the ministry was working on the rulebook, however, it was not adopted until today. At the same session, Minister Tolusic announced that a thematic session on... Which also left a dead letter on the paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All these claims from the board, the minister reiterated in the media, whether at the same time the Ministry of Agriculture did not just do anything, but allowed glyphosates to be used in Croatia, although the international agency for WHO cancer research concluded that glyphosate is most likely cancerous for humans. In fact, the study also shows how glycosate-containing herbicides act as endocrine switches or distributors, which significantly affects hormone secretion and our endocrine system, which can endanger human fertility. Yes, fertility, in Croatia currently 20% of couples are infertile with growth trend. Among other things, the European Food Safety Authority has indicated a critical concern that applicants, including Monsanto, do not submit any toxicological assessments on products intended to be placed on the market. Should it be mentioned that other than humans, GMOs and glyphosates have catastrophic effects on the animal world and the environment. Putting the cidocors, in translation roundup on the ground is killing not only all the weeds, but absolutely all the microorganisms, so it's a land that's dead and any of you can buy a cidocer in a pharmacy, put it on the ground and see what effect it has, the earth will turn into a wasteland. Among other things, I remind you once again that GMO companies like Singha already operate in Croatia... A pioneer and a notorious Monsant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to note that GMOs destroy small producers, destroy domestic production. Consider the case of Argentina where 300,000 small farmers fell after being legalized by GMOs. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the health and agriculture ministers and one part of the parliamentary representatives are nothing more than the miserable servant of corporations and their mercenaries who sell the health and lives of our citizens, as former President Tudjman would say, people are not stinging. There will obviously be no peace in Croatia, until the law on GMOs is passed as we have in Hungary, where all the fields of GMOs are burned, or in Russia, where any activity related to GMOs is considered equal terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65985	We are also going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65986	Appreciable MPs and MPs. We are in this assembly daily witnessing how the SDP complains about the lack of democracy, freedom of speech and the hiding of various information. It may be for someone in politics to expect them to try to influence the media, but what we witnessed in the Croatian media this morning, we can call nothing else, but asphyxiation of media freedom and pressure on the media. The pressure of the SDP in which there was obviously none left almost any of it democratically, is obviously so great, that they had to react to editors of 5, almost the most influential media in Croatia, and to show in fact this situation, they published a statement of course. So, in fact, everything is the opposite of why you're showing up and even if things were better with that statement, your president is responding to those editors through the law firm. So he did not even personally respond to the editors of the Croatian media. Another thing that is extremely interesting in all of this about the SDP, and that is whenever the research economy or the media, discover or write anything about the situation in the SDP and unfortunately the real state, you deny it and try to show it differently than it is. In the SDP, there are so many obvious problems both factional and financial that you could probably think about an independent commissioner who would arrange things there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u65987	That's what we're done with the debates after the break, so we're going to move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66016	Mrs Ninčević-Lesandric answered. Since we have a lot of replicas, I'll give her first words to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66017	I'm looking for a break regarding the latest knowledge of EU funds in our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66018	If you can speak right now, then we'll do it before the replica. Okay? Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66019	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I had to take a break to warn about these facts I'm reading from the media today because they're just too scary, so I'm going to take a turn. The conclusion from the session of the Executive Board of the Croatian Community of County asks the Prime Minister to establish a state fund from which to pay a penalty due to unintended failures in the preparation and implementation of EU projects. Look out, for years at the Development Agency, the centre accelerator incubators hire people who have no competence, are not professional and can't do their job, because if they knew then of 12.6 billion euros, we wouldn't be paid 1 billion, which is 8%. So it's obvious they don't know how to do their job, so now their unhappiness and ignorance is called thoughtless failure or error. To make things even more absurd, in fact, than the Prime Minister is required to set up a state fund. So, it's not enough that taxpayers so far have had to pay their wages and all those people who can't do their jobs, or try to learn how to do it. No, now we're still gonna raise funds for a state fund that's gonna pay for all these penalties that we've gotten for not working exactly the people who work in development agencies, accelerators, incubators and centres. I also sent a parliamentary question to the prime minister this morning, so I asked if the answer to this is yes, so if it confirms that it wants to set up a state fund, I would like to know whether the relatively mentioned funds would also be set up to pay for the penalty due to unintentional failures in preparation and implementation for economic development and the creation of jobs of large and important projects reported by entrepreneurs. And I'm also interested in accepting this crazy idea of establishing a state fund, whether public taxpayers will define what is a deliberate failure and a mistake so that all taxpayers are actually familiar with what they will pay. I have a tip for the government if he decides to agree to this state fund. They don't have to bother, so they're starting a new fund. So we've already got an existing elemental disaster fund, so let's keep it nice with earthquakes, floods and fires just add one item to the arrests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66020	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66094	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66095	I'd like to request a recess on the subject of the county court's verdict in the event of an execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66096	Ten minutes, 16.15.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66097	It can do without a break if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66098	No, he can't last time you wouldn't let me. At 16,15, we move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66099	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66100	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66101	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk to you about the case of the delegation of Vjekoslava Cukusic from Pavletic Street in Zagreb. It's for those who don't know the end of the House of Sports, across from N1 television. Why does this dejection matter? Because the judge of the County Court of Neri Radas condemned me to be guilty of her obstruction and confirmed the sentence of the judge of the Municipal Court, who gave me 2,000 kunas of fines. Why am I talking about this case? The reason is simple nature. In fact, I've been recording the story, and I can see clearly what's going on in the video. You can see a woman who's half-moving, sitting in a chair outside her apartment door, and in fact she's preventing the police from coming into the house. And the police are begging her to move, she doesn't want to, and I'm shooting the cameraman, I'm filming the police and I'm on the left-hand side and I'm shooting the locksmith they hired. And from the video, I'm telling the cops you see the problem isn't up to me. I'm not the one who interferes with this. If you want to act, show the camera what you want to do, or throw the woman out of the apartment. Of course, the police wouldn't do that in front of the cameras, so she begged the lady to step aside and she wouldn't. I was there as a witness to the weather, recording the whole incident. And what happened later? The judge accused me that it was my fault that the execution wasn't carried out and condemned me. I say okay. She trusted the bailiff with her word. But in the complaint, I'm sending a CD with a recording of the whole event and I'm saying it's seen from the video that I'm not lying at the door, that I'm not the one who's distracting, but it's something else. Judge Nerry Radas doesn't respect my appeal. Someone's going to say it's about 2,000 kuna, the amount really isn't big, it's not important, in my life nothing's going to change, in someone else's maybe. Maybe it is, i.e. I believe 2,000 kunas are full. Thank God that's not some terrible blow. But it's about principle. It's about the fact that judges don't pass judgments under the law. So the judge who judges by law should take all the arguments, all facts into account, and if the law is, that is, judge in favour of the party in whose favour the facts go. Judge Nerry Radas of the County Court didn't do it, and that's why I can openly say she didn't judge by law. One of you will tell Ivan why you're saying this? Well, I'm saying it because there's a video of the whole thing. I'm saying it because the archives, so no one can kill it, they can't do what was recorded, what happened to someone who claims it didn't happen. Neri Radas is exactly what he's doing. She's clearly putting evidence aside and she's just not interested in him at all. Finally, the question arises as to what will happen to the other actions it leads to, the question is what about other cases that will fall into the hands of similar judges like it and where the same injustice will win. And why am I saying that? Why does it matter? Well, it's important because in a place in the County Court there must be experienced judges, because the decisions of the County Court are legal. You may request an audit at the Supreme Court, but this does not delay the implementation of the exercise. So, that is, the execution of the verdict, in my case, 2,000 kuna is the penalty under the executive law that I got to interfere with the execution. And in the end, I call upon all citizens that when the elections come out, to support the Living Wall, to break this rule of corrupt and unfair justice, because otherwise it is only a matter of the moment when each of us will find ourselves in these plagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u66102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69948	- Proposed law on the municipal economy, first reading, P.Z. number 264. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. Would the proposaler's representative like to give an additional explanation of the law? If he wishes, I would ask the Secretary of State at the Department of Civil Engineering and the spatial arrangement of the esteemed Zelic Uhlir to speak to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69949	... The Law on the municipal economy lays down the principles of the implementation and financing of the municipal economy, as well as other issues relating to the purpose of carrying out municipal activities, which, under the notion of a municipal economy within the meaning of this law, implies the pursuit of municipal activities, and in particular the provision of municipal services of interest to natural and legal persons, as well as the financing of the construction and maintenance of facilities and devices of municipal infrastructure as a whole in the area of municipalities, cities, city of Zagreb, County when determined by that law. [[Specially enabled.]] The current Law on the municipal economy was passed long ago in 1995 and has been changed 18 times to date. This unusually large number of changes in one law made this law to become problematic, impregnable, and creating difficulties in everyday application. This further contributes to the fact that the Law on the municipal economy has been amended by six cases by other laws and, in particular, by the fact that these laws have, to a greater or lesser extent, been parallelly regulated issues related to certain municipal infrastructures, its construction and financing, and according to three of these laws, certain businesses have ceased to be a communal activity within the meaning of the Law on the municipal economy, the Law on Waters, the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste and the Law on Funeral Activity. Furthermore, it was necessary to comply with four of the following laws of the Public Procurement Act, the Law on concessions, the Law on Roads and the Law on Services, which in each particular part affected certain parts of the Law on the Communist Economy. It is evident from the above that the Law on the municipal economy has been changed over a period of years in its essential parts, so that during the public debate on the draft bill and on the committees held these days, it could be noted that a large number of stakeholders in these discussions were not even aware of all the changes they had made over the years. A large number of objections were related precisely to parts which are no longer regulated by this law or those which are subject to certain other regulations. Today's municipal economy has not been what it was in 1995 for a long time. So what changes everything by passing this law, I'm going to say through six wholes. First, a system of communal economy will be established in accordance with the laws governing water supply and disposal, waste management, mortuary activity, public procurement, concessions, service provision and specific laws governing other issues of the municipal economy. Secondly, a clear and appropriate issue of the importance of the municipal economy for life and work in units of local self-government and the principles on which a municipal economy must be based, organisational forms which carry out municipal activities and issues related to the performance of these activities, issues related to the construction and maintenance of municipal infrastructure, including financing of the same in relation to cutting and payment of municipal contribution and municipal compensation. Third, the Law on the municipal economy will be brought into line with the Public Procurement Act, which has been adopted into the Croatian legal system by the European Public Procurement Directive. Fourthly, normative conditions will be provided to improve the implementation of the municipal order in the area of units of local self-government. Fifthly, it will allow for easy and rapid recording in the catastra and registration of the land book, the municipal infrastructure built until the entry into force of the new Law on the municipal economy. And finally sixth, the text of the Law on the Communist Economy will become reviewed and easy to use in everyday implementation, thus improving the effectiveness of its implementation. At the same time, the process of drawing up this proposal was influenced by amendments to other laws with inevitable reflections on this law in the making, so that the text of the law was changed several times during its preparation, and the law also had a time limit due to the need for hasty compliance with the Public Procurement Act and the EU Public Procurement Council Directive. All known stakeholders participated in the process of drawing up the Proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy through different forms, from consultation with the public, working in the Working Group and special thematic meetings, and in particular representatives of the units of local and regional self-government, HUP and HGK were involved. The proposed text of the Law on the municipal economy is consistent with all state bodies and has passed the relevant parliamentary committees on which additional useful proposals have been received for the possible improvement of certain provisions in the follow-up of the law-making process. So, respected and MPs, you have before you the text of a bill that, after 20 years and many individual amendments, individual procedures in this regulation itself, is finally regulated and consistent with the real system of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69950	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have 16 replicas. We're on our way with a respected colleague named Velligay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69951	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, I must first express my dissatisfaction that there is no real minister here today because it really is a law that I'm going to say, in the units of local self-government far most important and important, which is why the most complex, I think the minister should be here today. But all right, the secretary of state has briefly presented this to us, but the law is, in all its essence, bad. What is particularly in the eyes, what the Croatian public needs to know is Article 36(3), where communal societies in one discriminatory way are limited by the exercise of market activity. So here we either favor certain people or private sector activities, or we go towards additional red tape, so the creation of a number of new companies in local self-government units, which means additional red tape, means new directors, means new board members, new professional services, is that in some kind of public interest? Of course not. I believe that this is also not in line with constitutional provisions, because municipal companies are also companies, they have the right to entrepreneurship freedoms. Also, you mentioned in your debate that the representatives of the units of local and regional self-government were involved, I don't know, maybe some, you have a number of objections from the associations of the cities you have received, which you didn't respect, I don't know why in the law of a non-profit association, which, in the law of certain provisions on institutions, is a lot more wrong inside, and I hope that by the second reading, will change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69952	Thank you. Are you going to answer the line or are you going to answer the line in the end? Okay. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague of the Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69953	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, unfortunately, I must also conclude that we, too, were expecting a minister at the MOST club today, even though I know that you are authorized to present here on the bill. However, A large number of members of the government are still coming here because they are responsible for the Croatian Parliament, we expected Mr. Štromar to be too. [[Intruder President: My colleagues and colleagues, please tell my colleague Dolnjak to allow him.]] Too little time to explain a law that is extremely complex, which brings numerous newspapers, you tried to say in 6 minutes something that really absolutely requires a lot more time. You haven't even answered a lot of questions, you haven't answered them in a public debate. It is extremely interesting that hundreds of remarks that have come to the draft law in consultation with the interested public, you have generally responded with a few words. It's coming to your attention. The record could not tell what your position was. But I'd like to ask you one key thing before I expose you. With regard to the regulation of the municipal contribution compared to the earlier proposal for a construction rent that you have left out of this proposal. So the question is, who and what are they going to pay for? It is very clear, therefore, that according to your proposal will be paid for the use of already built municipal infrastructure and will be paid by all landowners. My question in view of a completely different regulation than the existing one, does this mean that a municipal contribution from now on, if the law is adopted, the continued monetary giving of all landowners or existing buildings that are larger than those that will be built in the future? I'm asking you a clear answer on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69954	Thank you. Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69955	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I join the disdain of fellow Members of the Vesligai and the Doljaks because it really is a law that deserves to be represented here by the minister and also by the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of this area. Therefore, at the outset, you are showing a reluctance of parliamentary representatives as well as a unit of local self-government. So this is a key law affecting the quality of life of citizens, performing some basic functions of units of local self-government, and we see that the government practically completely ignores the views of units of local self-government, again denying the European Charter of Local Self-Government, I expected that when there is no minister, you would at least say a few sentences about the fundamental remarks that have come from the field and that in this law a large number of solutions are inconclusive in practice, reducing the powers of local self-government units, reducing the income of local self-government units and directly affecting the quality of providing services to citizens on the ground. Therefore, you said that the preparation of the law was attended by a large number of different entities, and you mentioned the saying and units of local self-government, but it seems to me that you absolutely did not respect the views of the associations of cities or the county community. So, I ask you, in your comment on these replicas, to say something about this, and especially about article 36, which was also spoken of by a colleague, Velligaj, where he again seems to want to benefit from some private interests at the expense of the public interest of our units of local self-government and therefore all citizens living in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69956	Before crossing the 4th line, I would like to welcome the students of the Zagreb road traffic school who have joined us at the gallery, welcome to the beautiful... Now it's time for the esteemed fellow Mattelian. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69957	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not a minister, and five minutes of exposure, the secretary of state, about such an important law, is actually saying how proud the proposer is of such a legal proposal. In those five minutes, you've either missed or deliberately or deliberately said, that main intensity of this law. The main intensities of this law are contained in Article 36h, which is further liberalisation, i.e. better say privatisation of the public sector, i.e. parts of the communal service. Therefore, this article makes it impossible for municipal companies to carry out more than one municipal activity, i.e. to be registered for some of the economic activities. Thus, the local self-government unit and not only the small ones, and not only those in the rural area, will be forced, therefore, to provide municipal services to private companies and thus, as the current practice has shown, the level of municipal service is reduced, the quality of municipal service decreases, the price increases or, at the very least, from that point on, decreases in quality and price ratios. And in this way, instead, this law goes in terms of increasing citizens' standards they go in the opposite sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69958	The 5th is up, dear colleague Mader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69959	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, since this law is very important for local self-government units, I understand at the HSS Club with this first reading, clearly there are a number of disagreements in this law. First, when this law is passed in the Croatian Parliament, it can be applied to units of local self-government. Because there are really some illogicalities, that units of local self-government, change the coefficient, it's a different way of calculating the coefficient, they have to make new municipal solutions, they have other powers for the communal rulers. We know that certain municipalities in small units of local self-government have a communal director, four municipalities, whether these municipal directors will be able to carry out all these activities at all, the communal contribution is changing. So when will this law ever come to life in units, small units of local self-government. And I think it's a hit on the small local self-government units again, that it's a blow to the rural environment, which we've been devastated like this. But, fellow MPs, this law is important, but we must warn one thing, here we are also dealing with yesterday's Law on State Archives, that this Assembly was dealing with topics that are not important to our citizens, and probably the president knows, how much we were rated in January, with a score of 1.98 of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We colleagues go once, what is the point of this Croatian Assembly, to solve problems, completed, which is 300,000 family and economy and entrepreneurs and small family households. That we have 150,000 people who went out. When will this Assembly finally begin to solve the problems that are important for this Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69960	Let's move on. It's time for my dear colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69961	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I join my colleagues, who express disdain, which is not a minister here today. In fact, we will soon have an amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which wants to discipline representatives who talk too much. Well, it would be good to have a little discipline among the members of the government who talk too little. Or maybe these 30 minutes, you shouldn't even give government representatives if the minister doesn't come here. Because we've got a reason for the law, you've briefly convinced, which may not even be necessary. And I'm sorry I can't ask the Prime Minister a specific question here, Deputy Prime Minister. But since you're here, I hope you can pass it on to him. Namely, I am the only representative in the Croatian Parliament, who voted against the Law on the Introduction of Real Estate Taxes. In this law, you leave a communal fee, and the minister announced, I read it yesterday in the Morning List, as he plans to introduce some changes in the calculation of the municipal fee from 6 months. I welcome, let him introduce, let it be the municipal law. Let it be a communal lease, let him do whatever he wants with the communal fee. But I asked him as Deputy Prime Minister, if he would oppose the introduction of real estate taxes. It's a key question for the citizens of this country. The communal fee is fine, so let's keep it in this law and be well defined and better paid, but the real estate tax should not be introduced. As Secretary of State, can you answer your position? I believe you won't answer, as you haven't answered a single question here, because you don't have a mandate for it. And that is why, in the future Rules of Procedure, here, President-in-Office of the Parliament should also think about, that if the representatives of the Government come here, why take 30 minutes, if they want to reduce and minutes of our representative. I think that's legitimate. You can give me a warning, I think it's a legitimate attitude to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69962	I have no reason to warn you, but I can instruct you to refer your proposal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. All the suggestions are welcome. There is an ongoing debate with an interested public. So every idea of yours is welcome. But it's not the President of the Parliament that solves it, it's the committee of parliament, then the plenary session. Let's move on. Dear colleague Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69963	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear and esteemed Secretary of State and I will join my colleagues and express my disdain, i.e. The dissatisfaction that there is no minister present today. This is certainly one of the most important laws for the functioning and operation of local self-government, i.e. their public, communal companies. And you yourself said in the opening statement that there was very good cooperation between local self-government, as well as municipal companies, associations, individuals and the like. And they realized that 501 remarks had come from these entities. However, I again regret that out of those 501 remarks, 19 was accepted, 1 was partially accepted, 3 were rejected, and even 478 remarks by your reply were received, without a concrete answer whether it was accepted or not. From your presentation I can understand that these 478 remarks have been answered by other laws, the Water Act, the Waste Act and the like. However, I will say that in your materials it says that it is the roof law on the municipal economy and communal activity, regardless of what law they are being dealt with, I think they should screw the above and that for this very reason you did not accept what they are saying on the ground. And it turns out that the government, because it's a law relating to local self-government and the unit of local self-government and non-presence here in the Council of Ministers today, that you're simply not enough I'm going to say, pawned and paid attention to the quality of that law after 25 years after the 18 changes he's experienced so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69964	Let's move on, replica number eight of honorary colleagues of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69965	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's the esteemed secretary of state. The law, which now proposes, states that municipal companies will no longer be able to deal with market activity, means that all branches of Zagreb Holding that are not engaged in municipal activity will have to go to privatisation, and waste disposal or waste management is not a municipal activity and will have to go to privatisation. So I think there is one major danger in hiding, and in some ways I will compare it to the privatisation of Croatian telecommunications because the city of Zagreb is headed for waste management, we have received a promise that the city of Zagreb will invest millions and millions of kunas in waste storage containers, in sorters, in composts and can happen very easily in a year, two private citizens take over all of this, and the citizens of the city of Zagreb paid all of this as well as telecommunications. So, I'd like you to explain that fact to me, do you think there's a certain danger that citizens are paying for something, and the privateer takes it into concession and actually makes a huge part of the money on it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69966	Dear colleague Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69967	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. So here you were talking about this draft proposal in the introduction that first of all order will be introduced, and in this country the only thing that works right is the units of local self-government, and now you're taking from the hands of local self-government units some things. Examples are pure here let's say I took the first article, I really studied that law on six pages I wrote the remarks that you have in this law, whoever was doing the law of every honor, these are chimneys that are now in heaven or on earth. France did it a few years ago, they were returning again because there was gas poisoning, so the chimneys are now worried there's no place to go. You say the law was well passed, your public debate was disastrous, so there was no communication at all, you wrote on the note. You are saying that the law is in line with the other laws which I can say are not true and you are contradictory here, look only at the articles of your article 40 of the draft law, Article 39, because the Law on the Community Economy cannot regulate the things governed by the Law on Commercial Society, and also the concept of an institution cannot be defined by that law because it is defined by the Law on Institutions. So you didn't even coordinate because there are contradictory things in your draft bill. There is also no minister here today, and here in Article 26, the minister will deal with the affairs that you took from the units of local self-government, which is the abolished possibility of determining what they are municipal activities. It is fine now that the previous consent of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning will be sought for such an act, citing the strictly prescribed conditions under which this is possible. Now imagine what our minister will do for the ministry. And there's not enough people like this, there's going to be new jobs, you've come up with jobs so I can get back in touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69968	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69969	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is one of the most important laws that I will not say the most important ones for local self-government, but the most important law for all citizens because it enters the pockets of all citizens, given that it is a communal fee and a communal contribution not only of the citizens but also of the private. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think that the old provisions of the current law were better than the proposal of this, and I don't understand the relationship between the minister in charge not to come before the MPs and not to explain this law. Apparently, he doesn't think it's an important law for all citizens. The principle of this law is non-profitability, and we see as well as now in the debate of parliamentary representatives that companies to which municipal activity is granted cannot be placed on the market. Obviously you feel that non-profitability will be performed by private concessionaires, so I don't know any private who takes communal activity without being non-profitable unless you think they're going to perform the Red Cross or Caritas, that's right. And as for this law, we could also solve an important problem, i.e. to stop more favouring the various teleopers in such a way that you simply wrote in the municipal infrastructure that the distribution telecommunications sewerage is an integral part of the municipal infrastructure. It is a grey zone used by operators and do not pay the right to serve or units of local self-government or the state of Croatia. But as far as lawmaking is concerned, I expected this law to be made by people who really know the situation on the ground, so we have an article 1 of 131 that defines how the municipal infrastructure is recorded in the cadastre and entered in the land books. So the last item that refutes absolutely all articles because it does not refer to infrastructure built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Well, practically all of the infrastructure we're talking about today is registered under the ownership of the Republic of Croatia so this law does not solve absolutely anything that is an important problem of the local self-government unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69970	Thank you. 11th Replicated counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69971	Dear Secretary of State. I'm less worried that he's not the minister here, that you lied, that I'm more concerned about what's written in this law. I've never heard anyone make concrete in a way that mixes sand and baking powder. What am I saying? Article 135 is replaced by the The constitution, it writes what powers are and what units of local self-government are doing and what obligations they are. If we want to get into the market and some kind of market thinking, adapt ourselves to some kind of business, then we're on the wrong track. Because that's why there's a submerged second law. There's an Investment Encouragement Act, there's an entrepreneurship infrastructure, there's a whole series of laws. And if we turn the dead into market goods and limit the units of local self-government, both of them, under the laws so far and for many years, set up municipal societies, tailored these needs, invested a lot of resources in the supply of equipment, in hiring people on these jobs, then we're not on the right track. Also, no one can tell me that limiting the unit of local self-government, in doing so, will reduce someone, release the municipal contribution at the moment he decides to attract investors in his field, that it's some kind of favor, I think he's on the wrong track again. The law should be a tool, a tool of local self-government units, and this is a key law precisely for what local self-government units do most. The communal economy, meeting the needs of its citizens, and we must not put restrictions on the hands of local self-government units when making decisions. A lot of objections were also made by the citizens' association, a lot of objections were made from both cities and municipalities. Yesterday you heard a whole series of examples on the board and it's a good thing it's this procedure, that they're screaming at what you're being told, and I'm asking you to respect the remarks you're about to hear and to make the law right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69972	Comrade Bull, it's your turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69973	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, here we see that over-granting, a HDZ colleague with the right to this law, speaks more than what needs to be said, so here's what Mr. Klaric told Mr. Stroman who is present on this law and fact, so for example, here's the communal activity that needs to be provided means keeping units of local self-government. Number one, maintenance of unclassified roads, that's been so far. However, under two, maintenance parts of public roads, which pass through the settlement, which means translated, that the county, state roads will be maintained by local self-government, at the border of the settlement, of course. But, with this act, you've done a blow, you've centralized your functions, the owners of states and counties, regional self-government, and local self-government will pay for it, that is, citizens. Instead of having free textbooks, free transportation because they cannot provide, in Slavonia buses, lines are shut down, as in the entire region of Dalmatia Zagora and all of Croatia, and you place a burden on local self-government to maintain the roads of the state. And not only that, around the DTK and the direction of duty, what you're hitting teleopers on the right of service. But also the basic sites of the Ministry of Construction do not take any measures and place them wherever they want them as simple buildings. People call me from all over, to houses, to gardens, to kindergartens, to schools in my Sinj, to Zapresic, now, here are the people, the base stations, and this is all to the detriment of those end-users, mostly undeveloped areas, which, local units, will not be able to maintain roads owned by the state and the county. That's Article 2 you added, I'm sorry he's not a minister, obviously you haven't read this law, read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69974	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69975	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir and his associates, you said in your presentation that the Law on the Communist Economy had experienced 18 changes. What does that tell you? Therefore, this Law on the municipal economy is the fundamental law of all units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government. So one living law, the things that change and that are important on the ground, where the problem arises. Now if we go to the principle of centralization of certain things, and we stick to the principle of subsidiarity, then we need to respect the facts that you have in this brief presentation, and also from the replicas of all MPs so far heard and thought since this is about first reading. And the law itself, the bill of this law, is actually talking about how to carry out and finance the municipal economy and other businesses, it says from the supreme exercise of municipal activities. So that fact must not be ignored. In the very law, which is good, the bill is positive, you need to see all those things that actually hurt people on the ground and you need to respect them as such. If, with an interested public, we have almost 121 pages, almost 500 people involved, we need to think about such things, which will better settle things on the ground. So through this first reading, I'm listening to what the MPs say from the field, and let's respect that and all that we can change until the second reading, let's make this law really good, to be alive and to be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69976	Let's move on, dear fellow Boric, now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69977	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we should commend the proposal's intention, means that we have a comprehensive Law on the Communist Economy, following numerous and numerous changes, and that the screams are less adapted to the current system that already exists on the local self-government, but that some newspapers are also emerging, which will certainly cause certain doubts in the debate today. And they've already heard it, and everyone that's there is the most controversial article of Article 36(3) that chooses in terms of possibilities that, life now, we have complex ones, and something else should happen after the law is passed. I think that there should be respect for what comes from the proposal of local self-government, because it certainly does not work or suggest something that will make their system worse than improve. So here's what I think we should have today's debate. And the second part of reporting means representative bodies, since it's about companies whether it's for the best or for the smartest, we're going to have to do the same thing. The submission of financial plans, etc., so that we do not unnecessarily bureaucratize if we know who the assembly is now in executive power, i.e. in trade societies, so let's see what else can be said through a good debate today in the Parliament, through proposals to appreciate that the second reading is less burdened with the amendments, and yet to achieve major improvements.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69978	Let's go to the fifteenth line, dear fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69979	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law regulates about 40 to 50% of the original income of local self-government units and therefore is only very important and very important for local self-government units, and since it funds what determines the quality of life in a single unit of local self-government, it is also important for citizens. However, I have here a few questions hanging in the air in this law. First of all, the height of the communal fee. Unfortunately again, the income capacity of Croatian citizens is not taken away. It doesn't make sense, you have two houses one old and one new. They pay exactly the same communal fee, exactly the same. In this old one probably live people who don't have that much income capacity, in the newer probably live people who have a little more. The second thing, we also know for ourselves that the properties in Croatia have been growing in particular, and how they were being built. Unfortunately, the area and squares of these properties do not correspond to today's real state and income of people living in these properties. It's just a fact we can't run away from. And since it's a kind of tax they wanted me to or didn't want me to admit, then we have to stick to that principle of the General Tax Code, which is justice. That's one thing. Another thing that hangs in my air and that's whether the state for real estate in its possession pays a communal fee? That's it. The third thing about utility companies will be a lot of questions. I just have one question left in the air. If it is not allowed to deal with the public utility market, whether the municipal enterprise that receives the job from the local self-government unit to perform these works can be taken from the contractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69980	And the last replica, dear fellow Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69981	Thank you, Mr. President. The Secretary of State, and my replica, shall also go in the direction of a more detailed, more precise interpretation of Article 37(3) and Article 36(3), respectively, of Article 54, as well as of the interpretation of Article 54. It's about utility companies. It therefore states that the conduct of municipal activities can be entrusted to a company in which units of local self-government can, means exclusively to trust, and in that case, if JLS entrusts the municipal company with the business of the municipal economy, it cannot deal with the same market activity at the same time. Is this a company if the local self-government unit signs a public procurement so it gets that job, whether it can do other market activities. It's a dilemma. That's one thing. If it can't, then it's wrong, because I don't see any reason, because natural and legal persons can do municipal activities through a public tender, and a utility owned by JLS that is aware that it has a large range of other activities to report to the competition as well as legal and physical persons of others and it cannot do so. He's got to shut it down right now. That's wrong. So, is that why I'm asking you that you need a more precise interpretation? Why am I saying that? In the last three to four years alone, water supply and disposal have become a market activity. What is crucial, which also today, companies are doing waste which is a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia, we know that the last two years have not been sufficiently done. I'm not gonna say anything about that. This year will be a big problem. I'd like an additional interpretation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69982	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the line. And now I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they'd like to take their word for it? He's not answering. He can't answer now, he can't answer. He can't answer when we open the debate. That's right. We are now going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Robert Podolnjak. Here you go. What? ... No, not according to the Rules of Procedure, he can't answer right now, but only after the first debate. [[You can't hear it.]] He can't answer, he can respond to the replica in two minutes, and these were the replicas to the applicant's presentation. So we can't. Well, why are we discussing this now, I don't understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69983	Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, I'm afraid I must say that we have had a large number of replicas for a brief presentation of the Secretary of State. Fifteen replicas half an hour, a series of very significant questions, and we didn't get a single answer. In fact, I expected this presentation to begin in a way that we would already have part of the answers requested by our colleagues and colleagues. But I expect that, during today's longer debate, the proposer will also answer essential questions. First of all, as already pointed out in the proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy, I believe that we will all agree on this, is one of the most important laws governing the activities and way of doing business in local self-government. It is extremely important for our citizens because actually municipal activities are the core of those affairs dealing with local self-government units. I think that most of the MPs present here understand very well the essence of municipal activities and that a large number of MPs have acted or acted in a local self-government, given in the executive authority, given in representative, and therefore will certainly be able to discuss this matter in a good way. This law has been consulted with the interested public, but I must say that many of the very high-quality remarks addressed in the public debate have not provided relevant answers. Namely, if you look at the public debate and hundreds of objections and suggestions given almost every article of the proposed draft law, you will see something very unusual, which is that, in general, all the comments are answered with notice. So most of the time, you don't really know if the Proposer is inclined to apply the remark which has been made or does not make an argument which is relevant why some proposal does not accept. As a result, this law leaves a very large number of unexplained provisions that we expect to remove in this first reading. First of all, let me take the lead, this law states as a roof law dealing with municipal activities, a series of principles carry out municipal activities. It shall therefore specify at the beginning of Article 4 16 of the basic principles which must be managed by local self-government units in carrying out municipal activities. Among other things, protection of public interest, solidarity, non-profits, economics and efficiency in the pursuit of municipal activities, acceptance of the price of municipal services, etc. The issue of complementarity or compliance of individual principles is raised. The applicant shall not, in any event, state in any way how it finds that certain principles, for example, are the principle of non-profitism which is a characteristic of public institutions which must carry out their activities in this way, as it is, for example, consistent with the conduct of activities through a company or through a concession. The concession is a way of doing business in which, in the rules of a private person, a particular person wants to make a certain profit by making a certain concession, in which it can be linked to the principle of non-profit, it is not clear to me. This law significantly deviates from the fundamental principles of carrying out municipal activities. The first major problem that some colleagues and colleagues have seen in their questions is the fact that unlike the now applicable Law on the municipal economy in the new law, you do not explicitly have all the municipal activities mentioned. In his draft, the Proposer mentioned at least in terms of municipal activity which are in the existing law, however, after certain remarks, he gave up. You today, in a proposal that is now ahead of us, do not have some of the most important communal activities, so they are not listed at all as municipal activities. For example, public water supplies, waste management, tobacco activities for the applicant are no longer municipal activities. But what kind of activity are they? Leaven markets, liberalized, left to another type of activity. According to the Constitution, if you are looking at Article 135, which exactly lists the activities and areas of local self-government, it is clear when the public supply of water or public waste or waste management is not specifically mentioned, that they are included in municipal activities as originally defined by the law adopted after the creation of the current local self-government system and which is still in force. We feel it is not good to abandon all municipal activities and retain only some as the principle in this bill is now, although specific laws such as the Water Law or the Waste Management Act cite some other activities and define fully how they are implemented. We therefore propose that the Law on the municipal economy defines all municipal activities. We do not agree that there should be two or more regimes to carry out municipal activities. If we have defined principles that the legislator gives great attention because it lists them at the very beginning of the law, do those communal activities that are not contained in this bill not subject to the same principles? Are they subject to other principles? That would absolutely not be acceptable. Allow me something about the specific provisions of this bill. If the municipal self-government, therefore the local self-government unit will also install additional municipal activities in its decisions, and we regularly have such situations in their decisions, according to the proposed agreement of the Secretary-General. So far this was not necessary, local self-government could also define a number of other activities as communal and regulate the decision on municipal activities. There is no need for the minister to decide on decisions of over 550 units of local self-government and their municipal activities. Second, Article 36(3), which has already been discussed, in a public debate, many entities requested that the company be left out of the provision to carry out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and could not simultaneously carry out another commercial activity. It's an absolutely resilient provision. The way we read it and how they read it in the public debate would mean that existing utility companies carrying out some municipal activity, but also a certain economic activity, should no longer be able to carry out this activity. It could therefore carry out purely municipal activity. This would result in large and strong transformations of existing utility companies probably in hundreds of local self-government units. Here's an example to explain to the citizens what might happen. You have a municipal society, for example, in my city, which is now engaged in funeral activities and this municipal activity is at the core of doing their jobs, but they also carry out some economic activities, such as the production of flowers, construction works in the cemetery, the sale of funeral equipment, these are market activities that are actually functional and in some way an integral part of their basic municipal activity. And of course these activities help the municipal company to operate without loss because it can carry out municipal activity at acceptable prices, as is the rule of municipal activity. If this law were to be adopted, and we expect the applicant's answer in this regard, the municipal company could exclusively be involved in the burial of the deceased or in cremation of the deceased and nothing else. So everything else that this company is doing right now shouldn't be doing anymore, so it should be singled out into some special company. We absolutely find that unacceptable. Additional companies will certainly make it impossible to carry out quality jobs now done by a municipal society. There are likely similar examples of similar municipal societies in a number of other units of local self-government. In this provision, and much opposition has been expressed in the public debate, the proponent said nothing but being taken into account. Furthermore, the following article, Article 37 of the exercise of municipal activity, can be entrusted to a company where the unit of local self-government has all shares or shares in relation to the current law requiring local self-government to have a majority share of shares. What's the difference? So there are utility companies where the local self-government unit could sell part of the stake to employees who are now minority shareholders in the municipal company. In particular, there is a municipal company in my city where the majority owner of the local self-government unit is the city, minority shareholders are all employees of the company. What if such a provision of the law came into force? How to transform suddenly a municipal society in which 40 per cent of the shares are owned by employees of the company, and the law requires that the municipal society be owned by a local self-government unit 100%. How many such companies in Croatia are employed by minority shareholders in the municipal society and such a solution exists as I have known in my city since '93. For 20 years, therefore, employees are minority shareholders of the utility company. Now change it after 25 years, absolutely unacceptable. Finally, we expect the answers to the monetary payments provided for by this law, the full amount of unexplained payment of maintenance and use of municipal infrastructure. What does it mean to maintain municipal infrastructure paying one payment, and to use the other? Therefore, according to this proposal, a municipal contribution should be paid for all existing buildings by the owner of the land or by the one that will invest, which is an important difference compared to the existing law where the municipal contribution was paid in the construction of new buildings. And we expect the Proposer to be manifest about this because, in fact, so far, we have not received in response either through a public debate, nor so far in this debate, and I expect the Proposer to provide answers to a very important question, whether this law in this regard brings a new continuing burden to all property owners besides communal compensation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69984	We have a series of replicas. The first replica of Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69985	Dear colleague Podolnjak has already said something about this and his colleague Pranic. Incidentally or not in municipal infrastructure, so this DTK network is not put in place. I have spoken here on several occasions about favoring, meaning politics to Croatian telecoms and telecom operators and what my colleague Pranic has said I think it is necessary to install into this law because we can provide large funds to local self-government units, and in addition, in a quality way to help citizens and the price of services, means telecommunications itself. And that's what I will personally insist on. Here I thank my colleague Pranic for warning us about this and I think that definitely that DTK network has to enter this list that was put into this law. How do you feel about this proposal and how can we do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69986	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69987	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, what you have pointed out is true and it is only one of the great shortcomings of this proposal, which in no way gives local self-government units the right to master all public areas in their area. So far, local self-government has been forced to negotiate individually the use of the DTK network in its area. This issue would certainly have to be regulated by law and allowed units of local self-government to have all rights in their area for all municipal infrastructure, including those laid down underground, so the DTK network. I hope that the Proposer will respect this and will implement the law that units of local self-government have the right to compensation for all the DTK network that has been laid down and located on their public surface.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69988	Thank you very much. The second replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69989	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Dolnjak, you have opened a series of themes here. But as an expert on constitutional law, I would ask you one other thing. I am sure that you have read the law in detail, and there is a provision in the law of Article 33 that speaks of how public powers can be passed on. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The Constitution is defined who can exercise public authority. Let me explain. Therefore, those who are able to make a solution to individual administrative matters and I fear that this provision of Article 33 is contrary to Article 117(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution. It's about the Law on the Community Economy one of the longest-ever laws, it's and it's as it probably was at first it had a series, a series of examples, and they all scratched something out of that law. And he was an example of how in other laws this law was amended, something that really and in practice is not good to do. But I'll have a chance to speak for the club somewhere in the afternoon, so I'll define some things more clearly there, say what our position is. However, I am afraid that this law has now made the opposite, that this law has gone into some other laws to decide some things, so also to give some bodies public authority. And I'm afraid there's a basis for, to run before the Constitutional Court the constitutionality of the law. Well, I think it's a good idea to discuss it at this point, not to open a problem there if we recognize it now, to close it right now and not later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69990	Thank you very much. The answer, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69991	Thank you. You're talking about an extremely important matter of public trust. To whom can these public powers be entrusted? I tend to be able to entrust public authorities with commercial societies, i.e. institutions owned, or established by local self-government. But when we talk about companies that got those jobs some other way, that's another thing. For example, when local self-government has its own commercial, municipal society I still call it public utility, although everyone avoids that name. The applicant also wanted to re-propose it, and it seems appropriate for me to speak, because it is not, it could not be the same company as the companies regulated by the Company Act. Because for this company, respect and certain principles specific to municipal activity are required. Therefore, if you have such a municipal company, which is bound by certain principles defined by the law, it cannot behave in the same way as the other companies that are on the liberal free market, for example. In that sense, when it is within the competence of a company owned by local self-government, then I understand the transfer of public authority. For example, a municipal society dealing with the care of cemeteries issues a solution to the grave fee. It is therefore a transfer of public authority, that a solution has been issued and that you actually have that public authority. That's understandable. But let the company that isn't owned by the local self-government unit do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69992	Thank you very much. Mr. Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69993	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Podolnjak, your debate sort of directed me in one other direction. We have a large majority of us discussing and binding what is the logic of this Law on the municipal economy and what you refer to to municipal companies with powers, i.e. the activities of units of local self-government. Public water supply is also concerned with local self-government units. So, what the Local Self-Government Units Act prescribes, organize collection management, it's a waste. But this law doesn't treat it and to me it's a question of why. But I also remember the same way as you that we put waste management of the Waste Act out of communal activity. The Water Act also went away, so let's start from the gas, it's no longer a communal activity. We're obviously forgetting that we're 2013. We have become a member of the EU, we have adopted certain directives, which we must respect, which we must respect. That's one thing, another thing, the Public Procurement Act, says quite differently. On the other hand, we have little and some paradoxical views, one part of us, when we talk about local self-government leaders who are presidents of the municipal society assembly, and then we say that this should also be resettled in another way, that they should be monitored for being too much power. We have to decide what it is. So this law is not the one that puts the point on the I. Although I have a dilemma, and I would love to, I believe we'll get an explanation for those articles that I had said in the previous replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69994	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69995	I don't know what your attitude is or if we don't understand each other. But public water supply and disposal authorities are essential communal activities. It can't be some other kind of activity. And if you are watching how the Constitution in Article 135 lists the activities involved in local self-government, it specifically does not mention public water supply, which is actually a pair of excellence one of the most important water supplies is actually the only key activity that you must actually ensure to your citizens continuous and quality. So how do you define it if it's not communal? According to the Water Act, the law stipulates that this activity is carried out exclusively through companies wholly owned by local self-government. So without exception, one or more units of local self-government can be the owners of a company. And it's the only modality the law allows. I'm saying it's not good that there are two regimes performing municipal activity. Why would it not be possible to carry out this activity in public water supply through a public institution, which is by nature non-profit, but exclusively a commercial company? Why? That's right, we single out certain activities in special laws, and that's how we lose the logic of the whole system. Isn't it logical, as there is for the institutions roof law, the Law of Institutions, and then there are special laws. But fundamental principles are defined by the Law on Institutions. I also expect that in this Law on the Communist Economy, the principles and activities of the municipal economy are fundamental.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69996	Thank you. Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69997	Thank you very much. Representative Podolnjak, here we are talking about the most important law regarding our citizens on the municipal economy. I haven't received an answer yet, but it's unclear to me Art. 22. paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 describes what local self-government has brought so far, has been an obligation, to reflect unclassified roads, however, paragraph 2 has been added, maintaining parts of public roads passing through settlements. Here, so I'm asking you, is this law, in fact, the bill of law trying to legalize that the burden and maintenance of county and state roads falls on the units of local self-government, ultimately on the worse, essentially centralization, because I would call it, again, citizens, eventually, local self-government, will live up, because they will have to be more compensated for this maintenance. So I would call this before the lex hack, of course as far as the DTK network is concerned, colleagues have spoken, it's not mentioned here, because obviously the ministry can't mention it, not even as base stations, the same very important communal object, where they put it wherever they want, wherever they want, without any discussions, so I simply pointed out that problem. As far as public authorities are concerned, i.e. You have asked a good question, water supply and disposal, whether it will go into private hands and whether it may be a little harder to privatise the water supply of our water where it should be exclusively public authority, means local or state self-government and certainly not in private hands, because the price of water is our good, not that it is controlled by some privateer. It seems to me that this law seeks and aims to privatise water and all water supply sites. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69998	Thank you very much, Mr. Podolnjak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u69999	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I would like to draw attention to Mr. Secretary of State that he can take part in the debate and report for word on behalf of the motionary, in order to answer the many questions that have been asked to us at any time. Because unfortunately, we're already here, for how many hours and a half or longer we've been talking about a number of questions, we're pointing to ambiguity. I don't know when the proposer thinks to answer everything that we've brought out, but there's a chance actually at any moment here to say it. The fact is that there is uncertainty about what my colleague Bulj says is important to say, that at this point, when it comes to public water supply regulated by the Water Act, it is not this present proposal and that there is a clear provision there that this activity is carried out through companies owned by local self-government and there is only then another dimension of the economic use of water that can be given in a concession. But the fact is that in this bill there is one obvious tendency that significant municipal activities can be entrusted through concessions is actually the first step towards liberalising municipal activities. Because the fact is, when you put some activity into the concession of a private trading company, that there are no more principles of the municipal economy, the principle of solidarity and the lower municipal price, there is no more talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70000	Thank you. The promoter will respond immediately after Mr. Bačić, a little later, so we will have that opportunity. Mr. Lenart, of course after all the replicas, we give priority to all the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70001	Thank you, Vice President. And dear colleague Podolnjak, here you have well mentioned the story about the fact that the municipal economies no longer under the new law could do funeral services. You know what a tragedy is? The tragedy is that HDZ is passing a law like this and that the HDZ directors of municipal companies point to me on the ground on this irregularity. I don't know what to set the market for and allow private companies to do some service and to deny the utility owned by the city. Why impose it on the law? Let the market determine who will be the one who will provide a funeral service and who will be decided by the one who needs such a service. And another thing that you mentioned here, it's a chimney service that's floating somewhere around the world today, it's not prescribed by law, cities are prescribing something in their order, and then there's a lot of riots in the field, smokers are coming in, they're being misrepresented by people who need to do a favor because some say that they don't need to do the service, they claim that they need to, and then they send the fines and there's a lot of riots going on. I think that the chimney part should be prescribed through the law, too, so that it is very simple and clear that there would be no such mess on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70002	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70003	That's what I said at the beginning, that I think in this topic and municipal activities, we can speak a lot of us competently because we have a great deal of experience in this or that sense of local self-government. I've been in both representative and executive bodies for 20 years, and I know how utility companies work, how they're organized and what consequences this law will have for them. In my opinion, one of the communal societies, this law would cause major earthquakes. Therefore, even a part of the employees would have to be fired, the municipal company could no longer be able to operate financially because it now had to respect that there are also socially acceptable prices in that municipal activity and that it could not expect to get the maximum price in the part in which the mayor gave consent but that part could be compensated in that market area where the municipal company could make a living in a particular part by working on the economic activities that were still in the function of that municipal activity. And that worked pretty well, here's the last 25 years. Why do we now disrupt this in a way that must be created special, new companies that will strip down on one side of the communal activity and leave it on the burden of possibly the budget of local self-government if we want to have socially acceptable prices because that is exactly what is said in the principles of this Law on the municipal economy. When you work in municipal activity on the principle of non-profit and socially acceptable prices, which is defined in principle, then you cannot seek profit. But in that second segment of economic activity, it could be compensated and balanced but not at the expense of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70004	Thank you. Now, Mr. Vesligai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70005	Thank you, Vice President. So here's colleague Podolnjak, really many topics have opened here, around Article 36 I'd actually have one question actually for you. Since yesterday on the Committee on Local Self-Government was mentioned at one point by the promoters that Europe is forcing us to, that there are some directives of the EU that make it necessary for us to implement it in our own legislation, I really did not find this directive anywhere, since it should be or somewhere in the context of standing, of course, the name of the directive as it already goes, so I would like to ask you first comment on it. And the other thing, while we are already in Europe, I also feel that there is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity in some way, given that now the municipal activities that before the cities and municipalities had the right to determine by law, we need to seek the consent of the minister, and we know that the EU, the Charter of Local Self-Government, is also resting on the principle of subsidiarity, which is that lower-level decisions are being asked about this lower level and then the central government is, in some way, just supplementing and would also ask you for a little comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70006	Here you go, Mr. Downhill, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70007	Thank you. So I'm going to answer you very simply to this question whether this law is the result of compliance with European law, this is P.Z. No. 264. This isn't P.Z.E. No. 264. So this law is not what we call a law that harmonizes with European law. It absolutely does not say that we must privatise, liberalise, concession our communal activities in any way. Absolutely not. This would be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, absolutely contrary to Article 135 which speaks about the activities involved in local self-government units. Of course, at a small door, at a small door, more and more activities allow to be carried out through concessions that are absolutely inappropriate for concessions and that there is an absolute undeniable possibility of strengthening private interest. It is at the heart of the communal activities that the best way to achieve citizens' interest is through your own utility companies or institutions. And behind that, I absolutely stand after 20 years of working in local self-government. Whenever we trusted something in the concession, we had problems, lawsuits, long-standing disputes, and today. And for example, to allow concessions and this bill, for example, up to 20 years, is absolutely inappropriate for me. 20 years duration of concession for parking payment. Why for 20 years? Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70008	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70009	Honored colleague Podolnjak, Article 135. The constitution has said what units of local self-government can do, what are their obligations. It is also ideally written in this law to prepare Article 4 to Article 20 of the principle of carrying out the communal activities of this law. All other articles should be based on that principle. Right? But it should also be kept in mind when we have laid down the obligations here for local self-government units to do what they have to do, then we also have to provide these same units of local self-government that will be able to do something like that. Here someone touched the maintenance of roads owned by county Croatian roads inside the settlement. Obligation to maintain, build, design, build, solve property-legal relations unclassified local roads and units of local self-government. As a result, according to the Law on the municipal economy, they receive funds from municipal contribution and municipal compensation. What funds do cities and municipalities receive for the maintenance of Croatian roads or county roads within the settlement? And I'm not just saying that for maintenance reasons, but also responsibility for harmful events within the settlement where courts regularly punish local self-government units and charge them with the damage they have on vehicles or pedestrians in that area. These are issues that have been settled in principles, because principles speak for the protection of public interest, exchange of benefits, solidarity, public service, non-profits. And other laws oblige cities and municipalities to build recycling yards. The same law prescribes criminal provisions for the head of local self-government and the city or municipality unless it builds it, and here obliges it not to have its municipal society carry out that activity. And he also forbids his communal society to report to the competition. These are all the things that we need to discuss when this law is passed, and it is good to have a broader debate carried out. And it's good that this is the first reading. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70010	Thank you. Mr. Podolnjak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70011	Yes, thank you. You are aware and this is primarily and should be an expert debate because I do not see any need for political debate at the heart of the communal activities. This is actually an extremely professional debate on fundamental issues on how the municipal economy should be regulated. I start by making things simple, so that we know what our communal activities are, and also to see them in fact in the roof law, to see how they carry out the basic principles in which they are carried out and the means to finance the implementation of these activities. But having it in one place, not scattered in a series of laws that are, may even be mutually and conflicting or conflicting. You should already actually have all this regulated by a law that is fundamental to that purpose. And you today to try to list municipal activities you probably couldn't, because they're already scattered in a series of other laws. And the tendency goes, unfortunately, in that direction. This may be the last chance to return the story to the original Law on the municipal economy, which cited all municipal activities in one law, through the Law on the municipal economy. And we think it's a good thing that the proposer has incorporated the basic principles of the municipal economy, but I don't see a link between these fundamental principles and any other subsequent provisions of the law. How we will one day respect these principles, and in some segments the law points in a completely different way and quite different principles of market, liberal, profitable, which are not related to these principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70012	Thank you very much. We're moving on with the club debate. Mr. Branko Brac, I'm sorry. HDZ counsel's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70013	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the Proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy in the first reading, with a clear need for respect and consideration of all the objections raised in this debate. At first, I would say immediately that this law represents in a certain way and the face of units of local self-government with the fact that in 2013, we became an EU member, it is not true that in no way are the EU directives seen in this law, because it is also written in the very context of this law, especially in a work relating to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. The law prescribes what is a municipal economy and what activities are municipal activities and whose component is the municipal economy, and which can also be agreed with already presented in the debate, which is that if waste management is not an integral part of the law, if water supply and disposal is not this law, it means that these are still communal activities or better said that they do not represent a communal economy but we prescribe them in more detail, we solve other laws such as the Law on Sustainable Waste Management and Water Act. It therefore states that these activities and waste and water supply and disposal concerns are still one of the main tasks of local self-government units, since they are not part of this law, they remain part of the municipal economy. It is during the debate that a series of remarks have already been made, so that I do not repeat them and have no need to repeat them, what I would refer to and what I think should be particularly elaborated on by the second reading and that the applicant is showing it. In fact, when we talk about maintenance or above all, I will remember the recording of municipal infrastructure, I would like to mention that the Road Law has already prescribed the obligation for units of local self-government to record unclassified roads and it is entered into in that law, then it is necessary to determine how much of the need it is to prescribe such a provision and the Law on municipal activities, given that it is prescribed by the Law on Roads. A short time ago, Col. Klaric also spoke about the obligation of the local self-government unit to maintain unclassified roads in which the part of the unclassified roads or streets are matched and are part of public roads, whether run by state roads or managed by the County Road Administration. Here I want it to be clear in the law that the local self-government unit must maintain that part of the municipal infrastructure that makes up unclassified roads for which the obligation is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Roads and the County Road Administration. This must be a clear distinction and this may be a matter of water supply, issues of public lighting maintenance. walking passage maintenance issues, etc., etc. This is still the obligation of units of local self-government but what makes it an integral part of the road itself, the wheel, it must continue to be clearly prescribed that it is under the obligation of the Croatian Roads and the County Road Administration. As regards the communal contribution, it has already been pointed out on the working bodies and we have already heard this morning about how well it is to prescribe a clear provision under which unit of local self-government and in order to promote economic development, cannot at some point a certain entrepreneur, a certain payer for a municipal contribution, free from payment of the municipal contribution. I believe that it is necessary to leave or consider leaving the possibility to the local self-government unit of its executive or representative body that, for certain investments that mean stimulating economies, new employment, the development of a particular part of the local self-government unit, then but also to establish criteria that the local self-government unit can, for the sake of this economic development of a particular work or the entire local self-government unit, enable the release or reduction of the amount of municipal contribution. In doing so, it should also be borne in mind that when we talk about the return of the funds of the municipal contribution, there are those who hold that by paying the municipal contribution practically at the time of the construction act, the local self-government unit has made and the programme and started to invest and now that these investments are carried out, if there is an cancellation of the building permit, the cancellation of the projects, that it is necessary to return the municipal contribution. Here, it should be kept in mind that when the new building permit is activated, it will then be possible for the new investor to re-pay a municipal contribution. It is therefore necessary to consider the fact that if, for a particular property, a plot is made at the time of exiting and leaving the building permit, a municipal contribution is paid, that the property, that additional and pro futuro releases the new paid municipal contribution only if there is no difference in the size of the building that is being built and in that case should be compensated for earlier payment of municipal contributions. I also see on this trail the possibility of a clear and communal fee when units of local self-government are released for economic reasons for a certain time, several years of paying the municipal fee. What's also very important is that I think there was a misunderstanding during this morning's debate. So, communal activities are prescribed, this law prescribes 8 of them, and I think four service utility activities. No one prevents the local self-government unit from carrying out such activities in any way as to form a single company prescribed by this same law or to carry out part of the activity and to place them on the market. Therefore, this law does not prevent a local self-government unit from determining its own way of carrying out municipal activities. This is about wanting that part of the business now carried out by utility companies, and they are not in the communal activity to market them, and then that job can be made available to everyone by the same criteria. But what I would like to do is make it clear that this business is also available to the local self-government unit if it creates a particular company for this activity because in this way when we put on the market a certain activity then there is no and there is a tender for selecting someone who will provide that activity to enable it and the company, whether it is an establishment whether it is a company owned by a local self-government unit. In that way, it would seem to me to be a number of misunderstandings that we listened to during the morning and that were highlighted, I think we would be resolved. So it can be solved that way. It is also clear from this law that a municipal fee is defined, which means that the Government, and we have already heard about it, by prescribing the collection of the municipal fee, practically giving up tax on real estate. I think it's more than clear now that by introducing and returning municipal compensation, we gave up the real estate tax itself. What was also highlighted in the debate with the interested public, it was a definition of the level of municipal compensation, for example for tourism societies. So far there has been a limit to which the level of municipal compensation can be prescribed up to a certain percentage, it seems to me 1.5% of the total income of certain companies. In this way it is no longer about this we say it has been highlighted in the public debate, it is necessary to consider whether it is possible for an activity that has large squares and uses significant spaces, whether it is possible to prescribe in this case the total amount of municipal compensation that the local self-government unit can prescribe when it cuts off public fees. In this regard, I believe that, with all these remarks that we have stated that, until the second reading, the Government or the Resort Ministry is considering how and in what way it is possible to respect the observations made by the units of local self-government because, in my opinion, this is the third most important document adopted by the Croatian Parliament when we talk about the work of units of local self-government after the Law on the financing of local self-government units, this law has, to a large extent, a clear and determined way of handling, and also the income of local self-government units because the revenues from providing municipal services are certainly a very large part of the financial cookie, i.e. the income of the units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70014	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas, at the gallery and I welcome them to the gallery are members of the Better Tomorrow Association and in the porter here, too, I would ask you to welcome them with a round of applause because they deserve it. We have 14 replicas of which 8 were requested in the first 20 seconds of Mr. Bačić's exposure, so I would call the reactions to the appearance of Mr. Bačić more than the replica, but Mr. Bačić will certainly answer them. [[Applause.]] Here you go, first Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70015	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, let me make this clear in the first 20 seconds you said this law was acceptable to you. Comparing the statements of your colleagues from the club who are the leaders of cities that oppose this way of destruction and not only the unit of local self-government but the collapse of the entire system by this Law on municipal... municipal activities where units of local self-government are burdened with financing roads owned by county and towns in populated areas. This is article 22, under regular number 2 where municipal activities are listed, you can all read this. And not only that, you allow this law to give public authority in municipal activities such as water supply and disposal, you give the burden to local self-government you favor teleoperators, the DDK network of base stations or are paid as a utility, so all the burdens go to local self-government while the mayors today seek at the request of Cacic, to establish a fund so that they can pay for their failures at eu projects, and we all know that we pay less money back than what we give in Brussels. Now imagine and these districts of local self-government will have to maintain their roads and be responsible for everything that happens on their roads this law and you really support it, but not your colleagues from HDZ who have... grenadeed, and I agree with that, but this law is a lex hack towards local self-governments that are mayors of cities, but that's what people who are mayors of cities are saying regardless of their independence or in HDZ, people who live in it and are fighting the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70016	Thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, don't worry about my club and us at HDZ. It's perfectly clear here, and I think it should be clear to you that the roads were the county ones, they certainly go through the local self-government unit, they can't go by the local self-government unit. They're crossing the premises, the areas of all our local self-government units. It's those roads. Either they're run by state roads or run by the County Road Administration. And this law does not stop the obligation, counterpart Bulj, the state roads to maintain and build state roads or stop the obligation of the County Road Administration to maintain its roads. This law stipulates that the local self-government unit maintains that part of the municipal infrastructure on unclassified roads that serve the lives of the citizens of that unit of local self-government, which is the public lighting that is along that road, it is the maintenance of detachment facilities that are not in function of the road itself. Therefore, there is a clear distinction between what is the obligation of the Croatian Roads, which is the obligation of the County Road Administration and what is the obligation of the unit of local self-government. That's what we've done so far. And therefore, there is no difference between the existing solution and what is prescribed by this law. No one by any law can free the Croatian road from the obligation to maintain the state road and that must be clear to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70018	Please, no dialogue, please. Excuse me without dialogue, Mr. Mader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70019	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, here I have already said in my replica that this law that has been passed is a blow to local self-government units, not to improve the work of local self-government units. Here is just one example of Article 22 paragraph 1 point 6, the maintenance of cemetery and crematorium within the cemetery. It is okay that the municipal activity provided through the maintenance of municipal infrastructure and that units of local self-government must be maintained by cemetery and crematorium within the cemetery. But there is a major problem in local self - government units that some cemeteries cannot be registered in their property because they are the property of a church. So these provisions are in line with the Law on Cemeteries where Article 2 prescribes that cemeteries are municipal objects owned by a unit of local self-government whose space is located. So it should be official duty to carry out the book because you have a bunch of irregular property-legal relations about it and units of local self-government have a maintenance obligation. And I think that such a bill should end as a series of laws was passed here in the Chamber of Crematories and not to pass such a law and also if such a law is adopted, let it not be lex... Let's make it a lex crematorium. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70020	Thank you very much. Mr. Muffin, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, this law makes it clear what is considered a communal activity and what is a funeral activity defined by the Law on Cemeteries. Therefore, it is clearly read from this, but it can be agreed with you, that in the work in which the unit of local self-government takes over this law, that is, part of the municipal activity in its jurisdiction, to record all cemeteries. It is necessary to prescribe a record, and that is precisely what this law requires, that the unit of local self-government carry out records of complete municipal infrastructures which are both cemeteries and then establish a distinction between what it is obliged to do or possibly non-profit associations which, according to this law, are also designated as one that can carry out municipal activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70022	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70023	Thank you very much, Vice President. It remains an enigma as Mr. Bulj, I understand when he's the first in the debate, but he's the first in the announcement, but that enigma we'll have to solve for each other. Comrade Bačić, Of course we all did, you said in your first sentence the HDZ Club would support this law, which we didn't have any surprises and we expected it to be so. [[He was the first, yeah.]] But I've been doing a lot of thinking about what part of it, whether or not I should ask you about this record where there's a question of compliance with the Land Cataster Act and the Regulation that was adopted in 2017, but it's going to be an opportunity in one of the other parts. Let's go, basically, what's the point of this law? The point of this law is that I read it and I think it should be the next way. And as you said, this is by the importance of the third law when it comes to units of local self-government. I read that the meaning of this law that we have here 95, a lot of changes, should be the following, to allow the mayors and mayors to really be managers, that when they manage and do this job, to get investors through, to have clear rules of play, to allow investors to have new jobs, to have absolutely certain and benefits if necessary and that the municipal or city councils are in a certain way corrective not to go in exactly the direction in which they should not go. The next question is, the current law provides opportunities for mayors or commissioners to free certain investors of the communal contribution, to be freed and with a communal fee, thus encouraging you not to marry him, immediately at the start of the pay, and I don't care what happens but to encourage investment, to encourage investment. What will these mayors say now? We were joking a little bit. It's not like that. We've changed our minds. Let's not change our minds every time. We need to know what the basic meaning of the law is. The basic meaning of the law should be to make life easier for the mayors, the mayors to really be managers and what the role is, the role is to enable citizens to have the service clear and accessible, so please don't listen to me, listen to the association of cities and your mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70024	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark Taritash. Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak Taritaš, if you have listened to me, I said that during the debate and on the working bodies there were words about whether it was possible for local self-government units to give individual entrepreneurs, who were opening up new jobs, encourage certain economic activities, in the space of the unit of local self-government, to leave that possibility to the representative body, i.e., the head of the local samurai unit, that they could either fully release or reduce the height of the municipal contribution, which often is not small. That's one thing, and on the other hand I said that you should be careful here, because and prescribe who you can then all be able to pay for a municipal contribution, because for someone 3 jobs is open very much, and for someone there is 100 jobs very little. It is therefore necessary to establish a distinction when it can be approached in the release of the payment of the municipal contribution and when it is necessary to charge it. And that's why I said that until the second reading, that's what I said if you listened, so I said, that you should think about, how to enable the local self-government unit, that because of legitimate economic interests at a certain point, a certain entrepreneur, releases the beaching of a communal contribution or reduces the height of that municipal contribution. And I went one step further and then I was saying that further consideration is given to the fact that, as prescribed by the law, the payer of the municipal contribution, unless it approaches the realization of the project, if the construction permit ceases to be in force, whether to return the municipal contribution to the local self-government unit, when and under what conditions it is also prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70026	Thank you very much. Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70027	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here, colleague Bačić, I'll only be in one thing, I'll say it first, I'll agree with you, that it's certainly the third, most important law, which refers to local self-government, unfortunately, the second you missed your entire debate. Look, there's no directive, and you said that in your debate, which requires certain provisions, that I repeat myself again in this law. The directive only mentions public procurement laws and that's something else entirely. Do not be drawn here on certain directives, to Europe, to something that is very suspicious and that can be seen to suit, unfortunately, certain lobbys. This is bad law, it's bad in technical terms. We've already heard it's out of line with a number of other laws, but I'll say it's also catastrophic. And it's a disaster primarily for our citizens who will feel it most, because it will increase their price of service. And the one you mentioned, too, so we'll start new companies. So come on, please, so you know very well, you come from a smaller environment, from a smaller unit of local self-government, what does that mean in a smaller environment? Well, you're not going down there... on the islands to set up special companies, for not knowing the services, berths and transport of ferry services to charge charges for nautical vehicles etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what utility companies do with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70028	Thank you, too. Yes, the answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You've missed, and you're quite a man, and now I'm going to explain how. Therefore, as regards the Law on which certain reports or those carried out in the communal activity can be obtained, it is clear to us that the Public Procurement Act, in particular to prescribe the terms and conditions of the units of local self-government, is carrying out that procurement. This procurement is based on the directives mentioned here in the very explanation mentioned in the explanation. Therefore, the local self-government unit, if it finds that certain municipal activities will be placed on the market, at that time it is acting under the Public Procurement Act, but no one is obstructing the local self-government unit. That all the communal activities prescribed are not carried out by its municipal company. Therefore, in relation to the current situation, all municipal activities can be carried out in one single company, the founder of which is local self-government units. It is the first thing, the second thing, for what you have said, certain activities, which are not communal, which have now been carried out in the municipal, in this municipal society, exist in the law if you have read it well, the possibility that the local self-government unit, i.e. its representative body, such activities, declares communal activities and requests and consent of the minister, and that activities can be prescribed by municipal activities, so that they can again be carried out by a municipal enterprise. So I don't see this fear that you've just shown, when it comes to units of smaller units of local self-government, because I believe that there are solutions in this law that allow these activities to occur, in this utility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70030	Thank you, Mr. Bacic, thank you. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70031	Dear colleague Bačić, it's good and you were saying, we're all saying, that this is the first reading and that we have a large number of objections to this law. Of those banals such as in Article 100, where they were called to the National No. 100/97 missing the National Journal 117/05. In Article 94, they prescribe what public compensation is paid for, so they have prescribed, an auxiliary space with auxiliary buildings, residential buildings, an auxiliary space in the function of a business space, and it is not known what it refers to, because there is no definition, nor in the Regulation... These are all the details to be worked out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The laws, and I always say that, must be a tool, a tool used in life, not a chair. I'm saying this for a reason, second-degreely solving differently at the level of Croatia, the solutions issued by the unit of local self-government, so it cancels out, so I don't know how many times. You should even take this part of the example we're talking about on these roads, I can deliver you here from court practice, where within the inhabited place, because of the accident that happened, the operator, these public roads, fenced in a way that was within the inhabited area, for it was the responsibility of the local self-government unit, because it was a greasy spot on the road itself. I will provide you with such an indication from the Croatian roads, there is also similar in the county roads. So these are all the things that have to be defined here, exactly, that there's no ambiguity in that part, because we have experience enough. The Law on the municipal economy and the municipal economy did not develop 2, 3, 4 or 5 years ago, but has a long course of existence. It has developed over the years, through this law itself, and through this very management and the communal economy, units of local self-government have developed and we have reached certain standards that, according to no article of this law, would be allowed to be violated, and especially because we have experience in practice, which can be defined here, much more precisely and more specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70032	Thank you, Mr. Klaric. Answer, please, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Klaric that if there is a doubt about what is considered an unclassified road in the settlement, and what is considered a state road, i.e. a county road, it is necessary to prescribe this in more detail. So, whether a slag, whether a part of a pedestrian, or a stake that is part of a sidewalk, which is part of public lighting, which is considered in the sense of this law to be an unclassified road, or part of a municipal infrastructure, and then a unit of local self-government, and for that, it is necessary to make a record, should be recorded on an undiscovered road. When an unclassified road is recorded, road buildings are prescribed for the purposes of this law and for the purpose of maintaining that part of the unclassified road. This is important, therefore, it is necessary to prescribe on an unclassified road, which is actually and at the same time a public road, it is necessary to provide for details, which are elements of the obligation to reflect units of local self-government, which are obligations to maintain the road manager, therefore, or the county administration or state roads, in order to avoid what you have rightly said, that due to the lack of a stake rather than outside the public road liability is transferred to the local self-government unit. So I said, because I said it before, that until the second reading, it is necessary to make that distinction and to prescribe whether by a government regulation, whether by a minister's regulation to prescribe which part of the public road, which in the village makes an unclassified road, i.e., street or whatever we call, is the obligation of the units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70034	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, you mentioned European directives, I do not resent it because, in an explanation, i.e. in the introduction to this law, these European directives are mentioned. Both the European Parliament and the European Commission have told the Member States, do not do this. Don't when you have something, push, which isn't popular or accepted, then you claim, that, we have to because it's prescribed by European directives. The ones mentioned here relate to how much I could find, to two very general things, to public procurement and competitiveness. The states regulated it completely different, completely different. For example. Smokers, Great Britain, what happened at the Grenfel Tower, therefore, dozens of the dead in the fire, the result, the privatisation of the chimney. That no one came to control the material of splinclera and all that was needed. So there is no such European directive that requires this. If there are, please, government representatives, A listen and B to give us links, give us a link, you don't need to print out everything and give us copies. Give us a link to the directives, in which this is defined and do not use it anymore, mystify it. There are a lot of people here who know a lot more about the municipal economy, but European rules, I know something. And this is simply not true. So either let us connect to see where that says it or we can make our own decision here. No one's binding us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70036	Thank you, Mrs. Pusic. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pusic, I don't see what the problem is, I have to say. So, the local self-government unit, let me explain to you, the local self-government unit, certain municipal activities, or it doesn't have the capacity or it doesn't want, or it does not want to evaluate the non-classified constituencies, through its institution, through its company, through its drive, it doesn't want to. And at that moment, when, and this activity should be carried out, when it is placed on the market, he, the unit of local self-government, implements the Public Procurement Act. And now I'm going one step further, and this Public Procurement Act is based on these directives that are listed in the reasoning. And I said it and nothing more or less. I agree with my colleague Podolnjak not P.Z.E., but it is ordinary law, it is, yes, the bill is but in this part where when units of local self-government provide certain municipal activities on the market, it acts according to the Public Procurement Act, which is based on directives, which you are, exactly, and in the part relating to competitiveness, therefore, it is not disputed, but it does not require the local unit to do so. If the local self-government unit assesses that it can do so on its own, and a large part of the local self-government unit, which itself does not implement the Public Procurement Act, it entrusts business to its company. And I don't see it. I really don't see what's going on here. There are activities that he does not want to carry out, because in many times the unit of local self-government when the owner in some activities that are economical in general there are a large number of employees and large costs and prices disproportionate etc., etc. The time when this activity is placed on the market, there is one rationalisation of the business of that activity in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70038	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70039	Dear counterpart Bačić, I must say that this law is definitely overrun by public interest and is in favour of private interest. You yourself talked about the new opening of private societies, which means new costs, and now you're talking to your colleagues as if we're not reading the same point, the same law. Article 36 of the draft law states that a commercial company can carry out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another commercial activity. This means that it will not be able to carry out other market activities. All these companies are owned by cities, units of local self-government, 100% property. So you're forcing new companies to open up, new costs like the town of Čakovec and Velika, I don't know if other cities had to share in kindergartens, because of the standards of pedagogicals, so we've only got new costs, new directors, new accounting, new professional employees and quality of work in kindergartens and standards of children who haven't changed there at all. But these were the costs of local self-government units, and so does this law now. I believe that you are aware that this is a bad bill because so far in the debate that we have listened to and your colleagues, here is the honor of a colleague, Klaric, who was really saying what kind of law it was, more or less no one has praised him, everyone has criticized him. And since you said that you would support the law, here I sincerely hope for all the citizens of Croatia, that all the remarks that were in today's debate were, you would respect and enter into the law so that it wouldn't happen that your colleague Minister Ćoric would go after a few months to change the Law on how to handle waste because he realized, he didn't listen to the units of local self-government and in which month we will again have changes to such a good law a few months ago was an excellent law in this one, and now we will change him again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70040	Thank you, Mr. Kovac. Mr. Muffin, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70041	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, I expected you as mayor, at least from you, something concrete. You spent two minutes, you didn't make any concrete remarks, not one. You only connected yourself to a colleague, Klaric, who, quite justifiably, spoke of resolving and establishing obligations on an unclassified road which is at the same time a public road, the public road authority's obligations and on the other side of the unit of local self-government, and you did not say a single word but mentioned a kindergarten between you and another city. So I would be interested in what particular activity did you mean? Here is my colleague, Boric, who is not here, the head of the Lopar municipality, who cares that he will have economic activity, which is renting deck chairs on the beach, on the Paradise beach on Rab, is now continuing to be carried out in a municipal company because the law now prevents him from being able to consider it an economic activity within the meaning of the law. And for this there is a solution in this law in a way that it can classify this economic activity as a beach arrangement and continue to carry out that activity in its company that provides him with other services and performs other municipal activities. So, read a little law, I'm not saying it's perfect, I've said it a lot of times and I've given a lot of remarks, and when it comes to communal contributions and when it comes to road maintenance, I've said that these things are better to look at, and then we'll see, but at this point as it's proposed, I'm holding that as representatives of all the remarks we make, we can support that law. And on that trail, I was arguing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70042	Thank you. Mr. Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is a good possibility that through replicas we can also discuss the things that have remained completely unsaid at this point, on which we have no indication of the proposings, at least until now and even from the public debate, it is not clear what the position of the promoter is. For example, what we are most discussing, therefore, is the inability for municipal companies if such a law comes into force, to carry out some economic activity in the future, so that the famous Article 36(3) has been subject to a lot of remarks and objections in the public debate. I watched 15 or 16 comments again, all in the direction of abolishing that provision, but literally everything, without exception. Among other things, the abolition of the provision as restrictive for municipal societies, as burdensome for local self-government, is also sought by the association of cities. So the association, the roofing association of cities where you probably have, so close to half the mayors are asking for that provision to be left out of the bill. So I assume you will respect the opinions of your colleagues and fellow mayors or mayors who gave that position. Therefore, it is obvious that the roof association and all others who have made observations from certain municipal societies and citizens' associations have estimated that this is a bad provision that will have bad consequences for municipal companies, for local self-government, that they will collect municipal services, create additional employment, conduct and some of the economic activities that are necessary and you suggest that it should be asked for the consent of the Minister, for the arrangement of beaches. Why further restrictively go in that direction? So far, we have not had the need for the minister to intervene in this regard. Why would 550 units of local self-government want that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70044	Time, thank you. Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70045	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Podolnjak, therefore, there is a certain number or type of business that has been provided throughout Croatia and is not legally prescribed as municipal activities. I argue that depending on the units of the local self-government unit of the local self-government, if these transactions, if their companies are public undertakings and are not an integral part of this law, do not represent any of these 12, or 8 municipal activities and 4 service activities, that they can carry out their activities in such a way as to prescribe that, with the agreement of the Minister and prescribe as a communal activity. And at the same time, I am in favour of certain economic activities that are placed on the market and if in that competition. The company, with its offer, is believed to be the best winner that it can continue to do so. So it seems to me in the replica that Mr Batinić was just saying that he also agreed that certain economic activities that were placed on the market and the municipal enterprise there with its offer gave the highest quality offer there should be carried out. That's what he suggested, and I agree with that. Therefore, if it fulfils the conditions for it to be carried out on the market and can be registered, then it may, in spite of the fact that a large part of the expenditure on carrying out this job will benefit from what it does in the communal activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70046	Thank you. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70047	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bačić, here we have changed this law 18 times. Honestly, I have a feeling every new minister wants to participate in writing a new law, I don't know why. And every time we write a new law honestly, it gets more complicated and more complicated. I don't know why we do it that way, but what we're doing isn't good. Who writes these laws honestly I don't know. I think it's bureaucrats. I think all of us here agree with the mayors, the chiefs that he's getting more complicated and complicated. They have objections to the Association of Cities, the Association of Municipalities. We here as Parliamentarians mayors, the mayors have objections and there are always new laws being made, some new experiments that lead to me, I don't know where. Will someone ever answer what the law says without consulting those who know little more about it? Will a minister ever answer for what he wrote a law that goes up? We write laws that should talk about our citizens living better, that they pay less if possible. This is a little less to say that it should be better quality. But I can see that our citizens don't live better, that our citizens are collecting, paying for expensive electricity, water, utility services, now it's gonna be cleanliness, all the time. I'm asking who's gonna be responsible for all that together? Have you perhaps called all of us together to say an opinion, to say something good that will go in the right direction. No, I don't. I feel like these laws are written by bureaucrats and that we go up and down every time. I have too little time to replicate, to tell you what I think is really wrong. But my colleague said how much we have concrete things. This is the first reading. I ask you, consider, respect our opinion that we know of here and that this law is a better step forward and that our citizens feel it. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70048	Thank you, Mr. Prelec. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Prelec, I am not the legislator, so what you are saying has the opportunity to present through an individual debate, and it is likely that the proposer will in any case be manifested, and it must be obvious. What I heard during the morning from the remarks, besides those I made, because I also made a number of objections to this law when it comes to the unit of local self-government, that is, associations of cities and associations of municipalities, it seems to me that it is fundamentally down to the desire that economic activities continue to be carried out in municipal enterprises. I think it's one of the fundamental remarks. The second fundamental remark was the possibility of being executed, that no return of the paid municipal contribution would be made independently of the realisation of the facility, which seemed to me to be another remark. And there were some other objections that weren't essential. I think it was mostly, that it was mainly those remarks which were mentioned and what my colleague Podolnjak was saying about whether it was mandatory that the municipal enterprise must be owned by a local self-government unit or, as an example, by a company in Varazdin, it could be carried out by a company that is mixed with ownership. So let's be specific. He's got an apparition. And I'm part of those remarks. And when the record of the municipal infrastructure said I heard, however, that there are so many objections I have to say I haven't heard and I don't think it's too complicated. There's 100 and I don't know how many, slightly more than 120 articles it seems to have. It's not too complicated, I'm not even saying it's perfect, but for the first reading with what we're saying, I think that law can really be fixed as we all expect from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70050	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker is now, but I'm afraid I have one here, that's right. Mr. Vlaovic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70051	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, Vice President. [[I didn't write you down, I only made an arrow and then I did, but it was you. Here you go.]] You told your colleague Bačić in your presentation that this law should be regulated by the area of the municipal economy and that this is an important tool in order for this area to be quality defined and that on the one hand we have an interest in enabling local and regional self-government units to manage this area in quality, and on the other hand, to enable citizens to have the same level of service preferably at the same or lower price. This draft law does not go in this direction on the basis of all these discussions because on the one hand you have already heard a series of objections and MPs, and also from your club to restrict the operation of municipal companies and to seek and through changes to the law to stay the way it has been, the municipal activity is not reduced, that the units of local self-government are not driven into the creation of new businesses, that they are not imposed on new commitments, and that they are not provided with sources of funding, that they are not forced to take down the state of infrastructure in their territory within six months and to carry out them in grant and cadastre when we know that this is not possible, that they are not forced to return the paid public contribution within a year if the building permit is realised and that they are allowed to carry out those activities that are in the interests of citizens, that we have the principle of solidarity and to be socially sensitive. If we put some of our activities on the market, like the chimney, funeral services, what happens in a moment? There is a danger that the case of Osijek-Baranja County will happen to you to lift 72 bus lines. No one will be interested in doing chimney services in villages where a hundred houses are empty or will not be interested in anyone answering or increasing the price of the service. The solution is we'll all leave Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70052	Thank you, Mr. Vlaovic, thank you. Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Vlaovic is something I haven't said, I think I've already explained it several times. And I'm going to repeat what you just said in the end, that if there are certain economic activities between them, smoking and funeral jobs that are no longer provided for by this law as municipal activities. Did you hear what I said? So that the unit of local self-government that is obliged to ensure that these jobs are done, that when it is placed on the market it has the right to have its municipal enterprise report to it and if there is no one else to do it or if it is most favourable to do it. I've said it five times already. So it wouldn't happen that some chimneys or any other non-communal business, when they're placed on the market that I said, and I said, that utility, that unit of local self-government through one of these types of organisation of operation, can come forward and if it's most favourable that it can do so, I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70054	Thank you very much. Mr. Demetlika, please. He gave up. Mr. Shucker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70055	Thank you very much. Mr. Bačić, you said this was one of the most important laws not for local self-government but for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, I would also try to focus my replica on specific things in the debate based on your discussion. First of all, at this point in time, how many of our households don't have drinking water, how many of our households don't have sewers, how many of our households don't have garbage disposal, and on the other hand, those who have all this, let's look at the amount of their payments. Let's see how much water, sewage, garbage, utility, water compensation for one house I know of 200 square meters, that's about 700, 800 to 1000 kuna depending on the unit of local self-government. And that's why some of the provisions of this law are very important. I'm going to go with specific things because I want to go with you inside our club and, for the sake of the motion, to comment on some things. Article 46, I believe that municipal infrastructure can only be owned by a local self-government unit, exclusively. Why? Because whoever is building that infrastructure is based on a monopolies position, based on certain legal provisions and prices has practically got money for it, and if one part of the concession is regulated in another way. The second thing, in paragraph 3 must clearly state that municipal infrastructure cannot be the subject of enforcement and bankruptcy because enforcement and bankruptcy are two different things. And one more thing, which is Article 73 and Article 76, which are in collegiate because if we say in Article 76 that the mayor submits a report, then the logical thing is that in Article 73, the mayor proposes a construction programme to the local self-government unit. And these are some of the technical things that we need to discuss, and it's logical from the debate that we're just going to have to stick to specific things. You've been holding on to specific things in the club debate and I'm still throwing you three to explain that everything isn't as black as it looks, but also colleagues from other clubs... /The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70056	Thank you, time, thank you. Mr. Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Shuker, I support the exact suggestions that you have made, and I believe that it is absolutely necessary to respect it until the second reading because you were a longtime mayor, and you know very well the work of the local self-government units of a particularly big city whose head you were headed. And I'd just like one more thing that you've specifically encouraged me to do, it's the fact that often times and prices of utility services are higher than appropriate precisely because there are other activities in this company that are then covered by the monopoly's position by the cost needed to carry out other activities. I'm not saying it's a case everywhere, but it can be that sometimes we raise prices of utility services to carry out some other activities that maybe if they were on the market would have been regulated differently. But I agree with you and when it comes to the execution, when it comes to bankruptcy and if something is written here in the articles of the law, that it is necessary to leave absolutely out of the possibility of the operation or the bankruptcy of the municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70058	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70059	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bacic, I'd like to ask you, is this law appropriate to anyone? I know that our utility companies are expensive, that our utility companies are expensive, that communal fees to citizens are expensive, I ask if this law gives us a chance to reduce any communals towards citizens? I know we need to privatize everything, but there are some things we should stop for a while. Knowing when we're in a hurry, when we're changing and passing some laws, we're giving favor to certain privates. But those privates who jump in at one point, who haven't done anything about it, only bring citizens into trouble. For example, I'm saying, here's the maintenance of buildings where some privates have jumped in, where we have ourselves, and we've had one problem ourselves, but you can never solve it, but when you report to the city and what city it is, so it's quite different because you have an institution where you can turn. I am afraid that this law and others would not close all things and that citizens would get into trouble because some privateer will take part of the job, lower the price, crash some competitions that the communal would probably be more expensive at that time and later also upgrade their prices over a certain time. I think that's where you should make sure that the utility companies are given to shareholders to be workers and part of the city, a clear majority part of the city. I think that this is a serious question and that this should not go quickly to the end of the solution that cities, even if the mayors are like me, I am not a big fan of always supporting them because they are managers and should allow local communities to decide however, it is known that they have councils and others where they have to confess and solve some problems with them. And I think we should take care of all the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70060	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Muscle, you are an entrepreneur, therefore I am in such a way and understand your debate. In my view, it is important that this law enables as high a service as possible and as cheap a service as possible for the public. When you look at what the municipal societies are doing, the municipal companies in Croatia, then you will see that it is a very colorful spectrum of economic activities that sometimes carry out municipal companies under cover that there is no one else, so it has to be carried out by a utility company, and sometimes because it is also financially profitable and then allows money to be poured into this activity, which is this law prescribed as a communal activity. So you will see that sometimes the price of municipal service that raises the costs of our fellow citizens is being poured into some other activities. Not when these other activities allow this price of utility to be cheaper. So there is no magic solution that would be unique for everyone, here it is on track to prescribe exactly what the unit of local self-government must perform in its own district through this law, and there are some other activities that can go to the market but I am, therefore, going to end up, for even when they go to market, if they are already being carried out in some municipal enterprise if it is most favourable, still that activity can be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70062	Thank you very much. The replicas are over, now they will address us on behalf of the motionary State Secretary Mr. Zeljko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70063	I thank you for the opportunity to respond to the replicas. It's been carried out a lot, a lot of repeating is similar to what it was in the public debate. So what I said in the opening part, I have to look back on that part because that part of the debate and replica continues. When state authorities respond to proposals and remarks, then give answers, and when something is commented in the public debate, it polloms with the state body, then we do not participate but say "accept to the knowledge". We accept the motion to comment and answer, if we're being pollemized, something is being interpreted, then we're not getting into it because there's no end to it, so it's simply working procedure. In addition to the other laws that have been exempted through the years by certain elements of municipal affairs, we simply cannot treat the Law on the municipal economy because it is already a finished story, it is over. These laws were here in the Parliament, they were discussed, could then be intervened in them but we can't have duality of action. One law cannot interpret what the other law has already solved. We can't get into each other's activities. Now I'm going to go in a row, another issue of economic activity, and that's most of the problem. Therefore, it all comes down to whether or not anyone can carry out economic activity, market activity. It's a matter of commitment. We are in the principles that in this law unlike the previous law with four principles have jumped to 16 principles. So we've expanded the principles of communal action. And one of those principles is nonprofit. So everything that's market we're taking out, and why are we doing it? It is precisely for this reason that no market activity, which has been touched in the last poles, would be carried out at the expense of other activities and thus be taken away from the business of the economy. So if we opted for the market, for the market business, then we have to be clean in this part too, in principle we said we're non-profit, and if we're non-profitd, then we're subsidized on the market and that's not good at all. And we do damage to mandatory activities, communal activities if we deal with markets, and that's not our primary job, and we spend funds on that part, we subsidize businesses. That's the basic difference that's being talked about here. Liberation of municipal compensation and support to entrepreneurs is the same topic. So this law should not be the one that helps entrepreneurs to decide to do business in a local environment. It's support. They shouldn't be doing it through this, but through something else, a cut, some other tools. Small units of local self-government and its capacity to do this all they're attributed to right now. So that's what we said in Article 28, 28, you can combine together, you can negotiate, you can make agreements and make commitments together, not everyone has to do separately. So it allows joint action. Greater powers of the communal directors. Right on demand, give us more power to act. Give us the instruments so we can act. That's strictly requested. This Regulation shall enter Public road maintenance. Dear Representative Bulj and others who commented on Article 22. It's very simple. The road law has determined everything. The local administration that maintains road parts in its area receives funds. The road law is all defined to the last detail of what goes into it, what are the limits, which are covered. The road law is all defined to the last mark. The teleopers aren't mentioned in any part, we don't mention them, we don't deal with them. I don't know why they're touched here. The level of municipal compensation is not adjusted to different financial opportunities There you go. [[Intruder Radin: Unfortunately, time is up.]] So, the nature of the fee is to collect for what the service is given, and taxes are something else. There's a little difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70064	Thank you very much. First here at the gallery are students from Zagreb, 45 students, I see a student, not a student, just a student. I welcome them and ask to welcome them with a hand with a teacher, Professor. [[Applause.]] Let's go to the replicas. The first replica of the applicant's presentation, Mr. Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70066	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here in this morning's replica I have expressed regret that the minister is not here. But that doesn't mean you're not an expert enough man with your associates to defend the law here. But that's the way it is. In addition to expertise, political attitude is sometimes needed. But let's look back now on the part that I consider to be controversial from the smaller municipalities' point of view and partly cities. But before that, only one technical remark. Article 98(3), I think it should be deleted. It's either a technical mistake or something. It shall be repeated in paragraph 2, paragraph 3 is equal. I don't know why that is. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Namely, my replica is heading towards a job that will be done by utility directors. Article 113 defines what they are all, who are their powers, and this article seems to me kind of unusual, strange, unimplementable. This is a roof law for communal monks, but whenever the law was passed here, any law on construction, construction inspection, veterinary inspection, whether it was about agricultural land, that it was about traffic. When we don't know who's going to do it, then it's always said it's going to be the communal directors. It's not a good solution, they're taking a state expert exam, I don't know where exactly they're taking it, here the laws define that they have to have a fourth degree of education and these are people who are frames to master that matter, it's not a problem. But now the problem is that there is this extensive work that they need to do, and I think we should devote ourselves to even this law, here until the second reading, I will personally try to attach the amendment, to give them more space, to make it clearer to them what they should do, maybe here is the state's expert exam that they have to take, to make it easier to understand what these people are going to do because I think this is how generally these powers can't be fulfilled. They can't come and tell someone to tear down the tree. We're all aware that's impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70067	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir will respond to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70068	Look, first of all, let me start with this article, Article 98. 2rd, 3rd, we accept, of course, everything we've said today and everything on boards has been said. I said the opening word. all constructive, well-intentioned, however, the law is complex, many other laws have affected its creation and it has been a time limit due to the application of the European Public Procurement Directive. So, we had a time limit, we were in the middle of it, a lot of other laws affecting and everything that's quality we'll accept without further ado. Items 2 and 3 are the same, here we are now, thank you very much. As for the task of municipal directors, they are quite detailed here, prescribed, and it was precisely required at the request of local administration units to increase their authority, to increase their role in society. And that's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70069	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70070	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's the Honorable Secretary of State, I wouldn't want you to understand that we really value politics here, to criticise you for criticism, so I'm going to try to be concrete. In this way, Article 26 states, in addition to the activities set out in Articles 22 and 24 of this Act, the representative body of the local self-government unit may, with the prior consent of the minister, make a decision. We go further into centralization, so with this we underestimate both the municipal and city councils and the chiefs and the directors and all those who can and know about it, they must seek the opinion of the minister. Therefore, Article 130, says this, units of local self-government will establish the record of the municipal infrastructure referred to in Article 68 of this Act within 6 months of the date of entry into force. Six months. Everyone who works knows it's impossible in six months. My second question, with what money? I was talking here about how many units of local self-government have with how much money from the total government budget. 16%. 15, 16%, with the city of Zagreb not knowing how much. What money are we gonna do all this with? That's my question. We are constantly getting some new assignments, new directives, not asking us if this is possible, whether it is simple and as far as financial opportunities are concerned. Our citizens are interested in water, electricity, to get nogost, to get roadways, to get kindergartens, schools. That's what they're interested in. And we've become perpetrators- rapporteurs. We have to report to the FINA, the Ministry, the County, the State Department for Protection and Rescue, we all have to give reports and we've turned into bureaucrats. And if I'm not saying that we've turned into perpetrators, the state, the ministry, something, we have to do it. He doesn't ask us if we need it or not. So specifically, he's doing some things that I think might be irrelevant right now. It's about a better life for our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70071	Thank you. I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. Uhlir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70072	Well, I thank you for your questions. Therefore, only those who are potentially controversial and those who cross the frameworks that are already prescribed here, not for all. So the controversial activities, the ones we talked about today almost all morning whether the economic activity is or not. If we are going into economic activity, then it should be possible to assess together whether it is acceptable. For 6 months, this is half a year, it is understood that local self-government units already have some kind of record of their communal infrastructure. So it stretches if we went further per year, 2, 3, 5 to what time period would be acceptable. We've been holding for six months that we need to establish a record. I hope that six months for such a job of whoever manages his municipal infrastructure shouldn't be a problem. And all in all, as well as this making up of records, as well as the second thing you finally mentioned, it's about reporting, it's about transparency of business towards our citizens. We need to be transparent, we need to open up our business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70073	Thank you. Mr. Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to ask you Mr. Secretary of State, one question and please answer it, I think it concerns hundreds of thousands of our citizens, and I am absolutely vaguely formulated in the law. In particular, it concerns the provisions of Articles 81 and 82, the proposal, the municipal contribution. The proposal you make states that this money public fee paid for using already built municipal infrastructure and paid by the owner of the land on which the existing building is located. The communal contribution is therefore paid according to this proposal for the already existing building, as it says, when building a building or for an existing building. I repeat again, so for the existing building, apartment, house, business space. The debtor is the one who builds or on which the existing building is located. The question on behalf of all owners of existing buildings, apartments, business spaces, buildings, whether they are bonds of municipal contribution under the proposed provision because it is to me if it stands, actually a property tax. It is, therefore, an existing building, it does not exist and in the current Law on the municipal economy, pays the investor for a new facility that participates in the construction of municipal infrastructure. So this is for the existing building, each existing apartment, business space, the building is the owner of the land on which the existing building is built or located. So it's already in place, it already exists, it's something that's already been built. And in this text of real estate tax, which is why I'm asking you a very decadent answer, what did you want to say to this provision?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70075	Thank you very much. Mr. Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70076	So no problem for clarification, it's very simple you don't have to get so excited about it, it's not about continuous charging, it's about one-time charging. Among other things, we agree with you that we can give further clarifications to the process of legalisation that has not existed so far and therefore did not exist in the current law. So it's a one-time charge, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70077	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Lipoščak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70078	I thank the chairman. Dear Secretary of State Uhlir. I can partly agree with you that this law does not serve to encourage entrepreneurs to do so by other laws, but it should help local self-government units and I do not see why they should take this tool out of their hands. In particular, the inability to abolish or abolish in one part or release from payment of the contribution of the municipal and compensation is a much simpler way than that units of local self-government change zones and change the coefficients. In particular, as regards Article 91, which defines the repayment of the municipal contribution in the event that the building permit has ceased to apply or has been invalidated, the building permit has a three-year period, so it may be extended once more. The funds are mostly immediately paid and this municipal contribution is the budget of the units of local self-government that are used to finance construction, maintain municipal infrastructure. I'm curious as to why in this case we're bringing in, let's say, in an uninvited position of that unit of local self-government, especially those who have fewer monetary incomes, which will, for example, be spent already in the construction and maintenance of the municipal infrastructure, and after a certain time we see not their fault because of the cancellation of the building permit will have to come into a situation where these funds will have to be returned and questioned whether they will have any where to return them from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70079	The Honorable Secretary of State will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70080	Thank you very much. So you helped entrepreneurs who were the subject of your question and you yourself concluded what I said in response to the replicas that this law cannot be considered to be its purpose. Helping entrepreneurs can be the quality communal service that we, through this law, condition, can be the transparency of services that we also provide through this law. So these are the kind of visions to which entrepreneurs can be helped through this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70081	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70082	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, here the most controversy leads around businesses, but when we look at what these companies should do in principle only, the only company is controversial that is those that are involved in maintenance, in fact building jobs, because what they do in digs is hardly going to do something on the market, something that deals with maintaining green areas, etc. But not to be complicated, it would be far simpler to point out that they can deal with it, but in business books they have to run it separately. Why? Because all these companies in the local self-government unit are doing a job that is a monopoly, pure monopoly. So the local self-government unit established because of a certain activity determines the price it can charge for certain services, while, for example, in water supply, you have the price to build, so you have some legislation that will make them pay for what they do for a job, which is the characteristic of a monopolies. Therefore, if the possibility arises that a municipal company can participate in the market, it can be given the opportunity, but in submitting its annual report it must clearly distinguish what it did in its balance sheet as it did in such a way that what unfortunately happened to us does not happen, which is that bad business in that market area is being transferred to the expense of regular business. And tell me it is not clear if there is a country and if it is known that the grave site has to be quiet and these dimensions, how the burial in one city can be 3500 in another 1800 in the third 1200, so it is not a grave place but a clean physical work of burial, so it would practically be a single price at the level of the entire Croatia, not to be a difference practically 100%, about 1200, and about 3500 somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70083	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70084	Thanks for the suggestion. Well, that's exactly where this law is written, so it separates market action from municipal action. If this is a possible and acceptable variant and all other stakeholders involved in the writing of this law, which means, in the first row, the Croatian Association of Employers and the HGK, who are also seeking market action and are seeking to respect market competition, however, the separation in the financial section has no problem being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70085	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70086	Your Honor, Secretary of State. You've talked about principles, and I don't think it's a good idea for you to change principles or at least in this part of it that concerns non-profits. Namely, when you say that communal services are not done for profit acquisition, then at the same time, you have illogicalness between art. 9 and Article 35 where all companies, i.e. companies in which the city or municipality is owned, are organised, as a commercial company d.o.o. As a rule, they actually operate under the principle of the Law on Profit Tax and perform municipal services. So, this non-profit, it shouldn't stand as a principle, because these same societies if they were to change them organisationally, then they would become institutions, and then they would have a more expensive service for that VAT that they can now refuse as a pre-tax. So I think we should rule that out as a principle. I suppose your intention was not to make an additional... prices of the service itself, therefore, that they must indeed correspond to what the service itself provides. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when you look at the organisational shape and the functioning of the system, it's in a certain conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70087	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70088	Exactly, non-profits should remain in our deep belief, I hope all others in the principles of municipal activity, because otherwise we are bringing into question the basics that apply to our citizens and the delivery of those other services. If we have such a company, it should do business on those principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70089	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Veiligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70090	Thank you, Vice President. Here, dear Secretary of State, I must say, I have noticed that you have made a very superficial transition over these main remarks that were surrounding this Article 36(3). You mentioned something, we can no longer subsidise utility companies, you haven't commented at all on these remarks about the EU directive, at least I expected it, that you would mention something. You gave one very... an explanation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, we all agree here and colleague Peric, she mentioned now, these utility companies are companies. The activities they perform, it can be said, may be that they perform really real marketable, but the good part is very inoperable economic activities. Let me mention one example, in 2014, we therefore had to separate water supply and disposal from the municipal societies. All right, we did it legally, we named the director, the board of directors, some officers, and all that. But something normal that we've been thinking about saving something, not going... administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the law allows us, it still allows us, let's say, to rent working machines from a communal society. So, of course, these companies rented these working machines, that's economic activity. Now, according to the new ones, we should start a special company, which will save the exclusive rental of these work machines. Well, accounting services were the same, they were actually renting these water supply and disposal companies, and they were staying in the utility company. Now I guess, again, if it's an economic activity, which is because it's not in these communals, we should also start a special company for accounting activities, for renting to other companies owned by local self-government units. Here, I mentioned the paradox in this short time I had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70091	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70092	Thank you. You have introduced the question of the directive and this law, I did not specifically refer to it, because everything is said in the introduction, everything is said in the not normative part of the law, we do not transpose any directive by this law, I have nothing to comment on in that part, nor have I commented on anything in that part. We only talked about respecting and respecting other laws, which in the meantime transposed some directives, which is the Public Procurement Act and these are the principles of market business. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70093	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70094	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. You said that this law also provides for the principle of solidarity and social sensitivity, but in Article 94 we introduce a new obligation for our citizens, where I say we are neither socially sensitive nor solid and that this is a small door for the introduction of real estate taxes, which was against which most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and which is why this law was withdrawn, which is what the HSS asked for. Namely, a payment of a municipal fee is being imposed on unbuilt building land. And that would be fine, if we were all in the same position, if we were gray in Zagreb or Varazdin, but there are those who live in both Rešetar and there near Vukovar, where unfortunately we have lots of empty houses and lots of undeveloped building land. And we introduce a new obligation to our citizens, which they will have nothing to pay from. So please comment on whether it's a real estate tax and whether it's a new obligation for our citizens to pay from. Also in the same article in paragraph 3 you mention the ruins, so I ask you, whose units of local self-government around Vukovar or Okucan will charge a municipal fee for the house or building that was torn down in the Homeland War, it is not renewed, the owner is unknown and we bring units of local self-government into the inability to implement this law, and indirectly we impose a new obligation on them, because we have business economic zones, which are unfulfilled, where there is a lot of undeveloped building land. Will local self-government units charge themselves a utility fee for the same unbuilt building land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70095	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70096	Regarding the ruins, I don't know which version of the law you have, whether from any previous question, but we should be in paragraph 3. We don't have that kind of thing, in this last valid one that's supposed to be in front of you today. ... Item 4. Unbuilt building land, not ruins. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] An unfinished building yes. The intruder doesn't understand. No, the unfinished building does. It's part of a business that belongs to the municipal order. So we must somehow fight unfinished mockery in space. Our mission is to preserve space, it is fundamentally good that is protected by the Constitution. So we're taking care of the space, intending to keep it safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70097	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70098	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State. I have to say again that I can't accept your answer that in some way, I'm going to say, you draw or wash your hands that everyone is looking at their own, that we can't get into each other's business, that means one ministry, another ministry, the third ministry simply doesn't cooperate on the well-being of local self-government. Is the Waste Act, the Water Act, meaning the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, laws are passed, and colleagues here today are always spoken by mayors and commissioners of all these laws must be united through local self-government i.e. We need to conduct through utility companies. Today everyone is saying that municipal activities must be funeral work, chimney work, drinking water supply, draining, wastewater treatment, municipal waste disposal, you, in your proposal without any reason, say that these activities cannot be and cease to matter, i.e. You're saying it's defined by some other law. But you yourself have said the roof law is the Law on the municipal economy, every expression that contains in itself communal means whether the pipe is a municipal infrastructure, whether the arrangement of the beach is a municipal infrastructure for which the units of local self-government are in charge, and now you separate some things and counterpart Bačić is not there, said that you will be able to do it further but through some other companies because with that municipal company today we can only do what you prescribed through Articles 24 and 22, and then perhaps the minister approves something else. Now that something must not be profitable. But if the funeral services and jobs that have been unprofitable so far, will tomorrow be the private who will do it by hand because of what you said yourself because of the Chamber of Commerce make a profit at it? Thank you very much. I see my time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70099	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70100	So we're going around a little bit. I mentioned the laws that are already in force, the laws that were passed in this House of Commons, the laws that were discussed here. So now we're coming in last and we're just nivelling the situation, harmonizing with our country's legal system. We can't when it's already adopted here that some other law will take over some activity, we continue to ignore that fact. So it's been taken over by another law all the way down to the details of who can deal with this activity, how they can deal with it, we can't ignore this law now, everything that happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70101	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70102	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. You gave me a bit of a weird answer, I talked to the local self-government leaders, and I've been in local politics for a long time, so I don't know where this response to Article 22(2) of this law is said to be the maintenance of public roads passing through the settlement, to subsidize it or co-finance the county or owner or state if the state road is not true. Right next to me, that mayor never won. I've been in local politics for a long time, and here's any mayor who raises his hand has the county and the state paid him for road maintenance. So this is a new imposition by local self-government, this is one centralization of power, and decentralisation is essentially just a cost and money, and there's no money, there's no funds. You have not described how the maintenance of county and state resources will be financed as the obligation of local self-government, you have not responded. You said one misinformation that Croatian roads and county institutions pay for it. That's not true, that's the role of this bill to your further proposal along the unclassified roads and these roads. Of course, it is a matter of public interest, of course, above all, that and in activities i.e. in the public authorities of Article 36, give the possibility again, I repeat, you have not responded to the possibility of privatising water supply which is intended to privatise water. This law a little bit introduces this term because simply this activity is not listed here by local self-government, nor by Article 24 of this also... municipal activity. So we quote Articles 22 and 24. Watch a little public interest, this is written against... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70103	Thank you. The Honorable Secretary of State will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70104	Thank you. We're going back to article 22. So I can't tell you anything else or say it again, but that by road law, it's defined to detail. If someone does not carry out their legal obligations, it is another problem, but if the Roads Act has said that you should return funds spent on maintenance in the local part of the local area, then someone does not adhere to the law. We can't regulate it by this law. So Article 22(2) says "under the maintenance of parts of public roads passing through settlements understanding is the maintenance of those parts of public roads passing through villages according to special regulations", everything is defined in the Roads Act to detail, you probably know. As for privatisation, no privatisations at all, and not much is introduced by this law, there is no mention of water at all because they have been taken over by another law, previously taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70105	Thank you. Please let's not throw it out of the bench. The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70106	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, Madam Secretary of State, Mr. Uhlir, I am pleased that in your brief address you resubscribed something that can be read out of the law, which means, despite the fact that the representative body of the local self-government community, or the city council, has made a request to the ministry to declare certain activities communal that is not possible since the principle of non-profit is in the same law. So, communal activity is not done to gain profits. For example, renting a deck chair or something like a umbrella, pedal, etc. is not even possible to ask the ministry, nor will it be agreed that it is a municipal activity. It is not even possible for a municipal society to carry out such an activity. I think we all share the same interest in making a certain service as cheap as possible for our citizens. I wonder what will happen to a municipal company that has so far carried out and a profitable activity, made some profit that reduced the deficit or in any way compensated for what a certain other municipal activity or was less attractive, so it cannot be obtained or refused to get a privateer or when a concession tender is opened no one will take because it will not make a profit. Therefore, with this non-profit activity, this activity was also carried out, thus covering, hiring people, investing in equipment, probably in space as well. And now that we get this profitable activity out of our communal company, we're left with a company that we're going to have to subsidize again from the city budget, or municipal budget. Whose burden is that on? It's our citizens again. And what did we get? We got a private benefit based on the same activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70107	The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70108	Thank you very much. Well, they're problematic details, and they're dilemmas that are really open. So, you only spoke from one aspect. Covering the market activity by covering those losses from municipal activities. But there's another direction. There is a way that someone is engaged in market activity, to compete on the market, which is, these prices are, where they are realised, covering from the municipal. That's what we don't want. So we're preventing what we think was a much worse direction to cover our debts. So in the market segment we're covering from the communal section. The solution is, it is seen in the direction in which the esteemed representative said that it was simply the accounting and financial division of the business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70109	Thank you. Here we are progressing dramatically, we are already at the third club and this is the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List, which will be spoken by the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70110	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for a new Law on the Communist Economy, which is certainly of great importance for the work and functioning of the local level, and in the process of public debate, has led to an expected and justifiable great interest. First of all, I would like to stress that more than 20 years of implementation of the Law on the Common Economy have seen numerous shortcomings in this law that could not be removed by its many amendments and amendments. We also heard from the secretary of state from '95. It's been changed as many as 18 times to this day. There is no doubt that there is a need for a full solution to this problem, but we of the IDS, PGS and RI club believe that such a bill will not contribute to the rationalisation of the business of the current commercial companies. It is expected that new legal entities will have to be set up to carry out activities that will no longer be considered communal, so many further important issues such as the ownership structure of new companies, and technical, human and professional equipment of the same companies, as well as the increase in the price of services in particular for the transport and disposal of waste, which is certainly the most important for our citizens. But surely one of the most important questions, we have heard and discussed whether there is something hiding or trying to push on a small door that this bill is actually preparing for the possibility of privatising a significant part of municipal affairs. I'm sure we at our club don't agree with that, and we won't support it. In the context of this bill, I must point out that the same should be done by second reading in view of significant shortcomings, indeterminateness and indeterminateness. As one of the most controversial provisions of this law, I see in Article 36(3), which defines that a commercial company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity. It can't be done in accordance with Article 36. I don't understand whether the minister will approve, but in this case, the two articles are in conflict. We can therefore read that the company is prohibited from carrying out other activities other than municipal activities and thus restricts their entrepreneurial and market freedom. Since the proposer of law in this form argues by harmonising with EU legislation, I ask that we be given a concrete answer which specifically prohibits companies from carrying out municipal and economic activity, and whether there is also a case law of the European Court of Justice. The legislative solution to Article 36(3) of the new draft law is entirely wrong for us and does not lead to any socially beneficial objective. I stress that such a legislative solution does not improve the treatment of citizens of the local self-government unit, i.e. consumers who are the ultimate users of public utility services. This legislative solution can only be justified in terms of enabling the private sector to exclude from the competition the spending companies established by local self-government units in order to carry out municipal activities, in order to enable the citizens of the users, i.e. to those who pay the service, provide other services, at more favourable prices. We believe that such a legislative solution, carries a number of negative consequences, and first of all, other activities, such as: waste management and mortuary activities will be carried out only by the parties, under this law, by private entities, who will receive significantly higher prices for acquisition, and what will further burden our citizens in our municipalities and cities. Given that the aim of the competition is to give the consumer the best service for the minimum amount of compensation, such a legal solution is undoubtedly contrary to the right of entrepreneurs to a free competition, guaranteed by art. 49. The Constitution of the Secondly, companies, in a more baseless part of funding, and this is precisely the financing of improving public service, in terms of carrying out municipal activities, and it is obvious that both development and progress in terms of carrying out municipal activities, therefore, all those mentioned in the provision of Article 22, 24 of the new law proposal will now stagnate, which is not in the citizens' interest, i.e. Consumers whose demands are increasing, i.e. Taller. As a third, municipalities and cities are imposed, the establishment of new companies, in case there is no one in the area to perform them, for example. the activities of the disposal of waste or funeral activities which are required to carry out other tasks. It is therefore necessary that the proper and regular functioning of units of local self-government, which are not mentioned in the provisions of Articles 22 and 24 of the new draft law, requires further increases in administrative costs, increases in costs in terms of the employment of additional staff, workers and the purchase of additional equipment, resulting in additional financial burden on taxpayers, i.e. building our cities and municipalities. As 4 it also makes it impossible for companies established by municipalities and cities, to perform jobs and to provide public services, which are not taxively listed in Articles 22 and 24 of the Law, which puts the rentability of the supply of equipment, i.e. the means of work that will not be paid in this way, and which could ultimately result in non-performing operations. And unfortunately, it could also lead to the unwanted consequences of extra workers, layoffs and new unemployment. As 5 it is certainly important to say that this legislative solution is also against the fundamental principle of the European acquis, which is aimed at the freedom of the flow of goods, the provision of services, the movement of capital, the movement of people, but in general the liberalisation of the market. It is the setting up of new barriers that will jeopardise the financial stability of companies established by municipalities and cities with the aim of carrying out municipal activities, as these companies, have already made significant investments in the form of education of people, the supply of labour and equipment and the construction of infrastructure, to carry out activities that are not explicitly mentioned in Articles 22 and 24 of the new law proposal. As 6 of those activities considered marketable, companies established by municipalities and cities may also carry out commercial activities under market conditions, and the control of the funds used to carry out those activities may be based on audits and other intended control instruments, as also proposed by counterpart Schucker. It is pointless to prohibit companies established by municipalities and cities to carry out any activity which is not explicitly mentioned in the provisions of Articles 22 and 24 of the new draft law, and thus, in fact, drive the municipalities and cities, to establish new companies and increase the cost of the budget, which can only be covered by an increase in public duties and the price of services for citizens. I must say, we in Istria have always taken care of the social component in determining the price of services paid by citizens. Furthermore, we consider it important that the provisions of Article 24 must be referred to as service utility activities, water supply and disposal, municipal waste management. As activities regulated by specific regulations, so-called lex specialist. These are still municipal activities and, as such, must be listed in the new law because there is no legal logic, according to which water supply and disposal, and by the management of municipal waste, would no longer be part of the municipal economy as an activity. This is more important to note that by resulting from the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, and the Water Law which uses municipal water construction, water communal directive, municipal waste and more in its regulation. As 7 such a legislative solution can only be acceptable for large units of local self-government, such as the City of Zagreb, where there are a large number of users of services, which finance all costs and where there are enough users to respect private companies, which separately carry out the tasks of cemeteries and cemeteries, waste management, water supply and disposal, etc. However, this is practically financial inconsistencies in municipalities and cities, where there are significantly fewer inhabitants on a large territorial surface. I believe that one of the basic objectives of the Law on the municipal economy should be to increase the quality of the public service provided in favour of our citizens, and this law is unnecessarily limiting it. In addition, in practice there is a need for companies to carry out other activities with municipal activity, in order to provide full service to the users of our citizens, as an example of the overall service of dealing with the deceased, from the place of death to the burial, therefore, to the public service of the market. I didn't... to enable the private, but not to limit ourselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of this raises some important questions for which I ask for an explanation and clarification, and does this mean that current utility companies will not be able to carry out a waste disposal and disposal service, will we have to have a new one? Does this mean the establishment of another company after the separation for the decommissioning needs and is it economical and will this approach result in an increase in the prices of municipal services, transport and waste disposal? We believe that the new Proposal for a Law on the municipal economy is not aimed at improving services for consumer end-users, but rather at the opposite. The subject-matter of the bill makes business of companies currently operating in the public sector more difficult, and the activity which can result in difficulties in providing public services to citizens, municipalities and cities, and moreover, raises the question of whether the state encourages forced privatisation of services that should be public? It means "publicly." In conclusion, it is important to stress that our club is not in any way for bans, but we believe that it is important that there is free competition, not that private lobbys are eligible, at the expense of public service companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70111	Thank you very much. We have more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Demetlika, I have listened carefully to your presentations and I can say that I would sign it entirely. It is contrary to the proposal of this law on municipal services, it is against the Constitution, and on some other aspects I will now say a few words and ask you a question. I fully agree that this bill will create confusion and confusion. It violates public-private relations, will not rationalise anything, and here it simply needs to be said in plain language by the following citizens, you have said well, what is communal so publicly those best parts want to now privatise or leave the market. So here's an example, so the message of the motion of this bill to our people who are going to be dead is, from now on, you're going to be buried by market principles. So if it's been done by a utility company so far as a non-profit institution, now you're going to dig yourself up in a profitable way by market principles. And that means that you will pay dearly, and at just one stage in a simple business of grief, which many families will surely be burdened by. I ask the question, where is the end of this madness of fellow Demetlik? How to protect the public interest and the pockets of citizens in a situation where the ruling does not have the slightest empathy feel for the public interest in this difficult economic situation? And how can we out of opposition simply act to protect ourselves from this one violence? And I hear here, I really have to say the unsuspecting answers about the market being introduced into these...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70113	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70114	I thank my colleague Lovrinović for asking the question. replicas. But I think that what you yourself have observed from this presentation and this issue that is being imposed, whether by this law really, I would not say by ruling but by the ministry specifically wanting to go hand in hand to the private sector, and by privatising what has been going on for many years through utility companies has been strengthened precisely in order to provide quality and efficient and cost-effective services to our citizens. But we can read that the Secretary of State said in one reply that he also mentioned the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers and I believe when you mentioned a specific mortuary that for many years there has been this lobby and pressure towards the Ministry to exclude that part of the burial i.e. Accepting the deceased, the deceased to the place to the morgue from the morgue, and from the morgue or crematorium to the burial still remains communal. The fact that right there are the utility companies are equipped, invested in equipment and provide that service much more quality than privates and now these privates want to simply eliminate it in a way to shut down, and normally when they are the only ones then they will dictate the price. The fact is, right now, I can do both, so I suggest we keep each other together and make it a game of competition. However, the legislator thinks that a communal can then be financed from other sources and with dumping prices, it can bring down a counter-private. However, what Mr Shuker said precisely through the financial audit reports can be seen whether he operates market in that part or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70115	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70116	Dear Mr. Demetlika, I must warn you of one fact, and that's what you said you wanted the system to be social, not to be too expensive, etc., however, in the cities of Istria where the IDS in power recently collected the price of municipal services by as much as 30%. You could have done it before the election, but you didn't, locally, you did it after. Why did you do it like that? You probably know best. However, what I would like to stress is that the Living Wall will propose in the second reading of this law that the amendment force the payment of debts to the public is done by legal firms within or legal services within the municipal companies, not by private law offices. The same law was actually made recently in the case of HRT. I appeal to everyone to accept our amendment, it's a concrete proposal aimed at keeping it public in public, not for utility companies to be private profit centers of various law offices that are connected to various political powers, and in return they get hundreds of thousands of objects and actually make millions of dollars on the poorest and weakest members of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70117	The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70118	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, you did not decidate what part of the municipal service we are in Istria where the IDS manages 25 years most of the municipalities and cities, but if you may have thought of collecting, transporting and disposal of waste we are just harmonizing with a regulation adopted by the Government regarding waste disposal in Kastijun. And in my own presentation, I said that citizens are looking for a higher standard, as you were in Istria, you saw that green areas are also arranged in Istria, that kindergartens work, that we have a large number of scholarships for our students, that we have one standard that is much higher. Normally every standard when it rises, then let the price of service be slightly higher. But I'm going to tell you that I've corrected the prices specifically in the communal affairs, whether it's waste disposal, waste disposal, editing, communal compensation we haven't touched anywhere since 2004. Now try to calculate how many years the changes have taken place and how we with the rational policy that we have led through both municipal companies and through efficient public local self-government are able to meet the needs of our citizens. So this law, too, is why we are fighting here in the Parliament that with these changes we are not just questioning the functioning of those and those of our utility companies that we have led to such a level that with one municipal enterprise we meet the needs of our citizens not that we have to have four utility companies. That's why we've always been socially sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70119	Answer. Next is the replica, excuse me, the esteemed representative of Mark Welligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70120	Thank you. Well, here's fellow Demetlik, in his presentation, you've well noticed one thing, and that's this one trend of liberalisation, privatization of municipal services that is actually being introduced through this law, and maybe it's already started all the way before. I'll say that at European level is a bit of a reverse trend. We have a trend, so-called. Recommunalization. So they realized developed European countries that not everything can be privatised and that sometimes you should have that good old country that will provide these basic public services to our citizens. Because if you leave everything to the market, and the market has the main principle of course anyone who deals with private entrepreneurship wants to make money there. And he'll watch first where he'll cut certain costs. And I don't think we can let that happen here in the Croatian Parliament and hear that main argument we heard, because now the private sector is actually not competitive enough because of those subsidies it receives from the public sector, so we have to eliminate it now. So, the private sector can do anything, and the utility can do anything, and the public can't. That's where we limit it to some, some market activities that maybe can be earned somewhere. I used to say that these are mostly unspective economic activities. Maybe those who are perspective why not? Why not have a community, for example, owned by a quarry that is some kind of public good? Are we going to have to privatize these quarrys now? To start special companies so we can have special executives there? Well, that really doesn't lead to anything. Smoking is the same special story. Well, they'll report, of course, that the smokers will report that they're doing that concession. Even in the beginning, it's going to give you some bigger amount for the city budget, and you're going to get 20, 30 grand more. And what will be the price for our citizens later?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70121	We will now hear the answer of the esteemed representative of Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70122	I'd like to thank my colleague, Vesligai. I said the prices for our citizens will certainly be higher. You said the private sector does not work without profit, while the public sector can work with a positive zero or with some profit it will invest again in the reconstruction, building a new infrastructure, means improving that standard. While the private sector earns its profits whether through dividends or through some other form it will draw out. But one more thing, I want to tell you that they too will hire, that those in the public sector and those workers are most certainly more protected than in that private sector. But one thing you said, you said recommunalization. But it seems that we Croats do not want to learn from the mistakes of others but we must repeat the mistake ourselves because what we now see in Europe, and especially in America, which gave 50 years ago a concession of the entire electrical system, and we see that our own are preparing something about electricity distribution, HEP privatisation, etc. that, after the end of the 50-year concession, they received back the facilities that were practically used up to a maximum, there was no additional investment and thus again public property, state property, in such a situation where losses were made. And that's exactly what attention should be drawn to where we don't have to, i.e. where we have a strong public utility sector not to privatise it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70123	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70124	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Demetlika. The law on the municipal economy is of great general and public interest, and it is particularly the current management of waste. Management, waste collection is a problem throughout Croatia. We wander the following recommendations of the European Union and continue to be covered with garbage. So, the current message is "less flowers than garbage". What do you think there might be some other way to manage the waste? What about the Energans, the burners? I think this is the simplest, cheapest and most environmentally acceptable way to take care of waste. What do you think about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70125	Here will be answered by the esteemed representative of Tulio Demetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70126	I appreciate the question. It is that how we handle waste is not the basis and problem of this law. Maybe we can talk about it outside. But we who come from Istria County as well as you from the Primorje-Gorski County, unlike the rest of Croatia, are already on a good path to take care of the waste. So, with two of our centers, we believe that we will meet that for the next 20 years and standards and technology and with the price most favourable for our citizens that we are in accordance with the law that the Republic of Croatia has adopted, which is in line with the laws of Europe. So I believe that the rest of Croatia will only have to follow and normally apply even more recent technologies to make it even more quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70127	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70128	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague named Tulio came into my eye on article 66 of the legal status of municipal infrastructure. Therefore, it is declared that the municipal infrastructure is public good in general use and owned by a unit of local self-government or a person carrying out municipal activity. In Article 64, it is said that public municipal infrastructure is considered. I will look back for a few moments in our near history, and these are built tourist settlements of business communities. We have in Istria the status of private investors, particularly in the tourist resort of Barbariga where there are still no issues of infrastructure where there are public roads, on roads, on parks, on the markets registered private owners. 'Cause I could say it's pretty messy. They are traded, sold in nature by this public infrastructure to private other owners for use and simply this meaning of this article has no purpose in real life. Therefore, private owners still have an unresolved issue in the transfer of ownership to public institutions, municipalities, cities and utility companies. There's been a sale. A good service system is being broken, and the users, the owners of apartments and apartments in such settlements pay communal compensation to the local self-government unit and they cannot get the right service as they expect through their payments. I'd just like a comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70129	The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70130	Here's my thanks to my colleague Kleman for asking the question. I think that this question should first of all be referred to the secretary of state in the ministry to answer how it will be dealt with. I don't think we have a solution through this law. But I'm going to point out that in an explanation in the very introduction when we get the bill's proposal, there are a lot of shortcomings that are generally seen as legal gaps, for example when it comes to building and the property status of municipal infrastructure. And someone, it seems to me, today my colleague Schucker was talking about that only local self-government units can be owned by municipal infrastructure. Today we in cities i.e. The fellow mayors and mayors, when we have a review, ask us a question, can't punish us thank God, but can remind us how we can invest money in other people's infrastructure. Now I'm asking the question. If the municipal water pipeline invests in the construction of a pipeline and receives 60% of the funds from Croatian waters, 30% of the city budget and 10% of the own funds, who owns the pipeline? ... But unfortunately, we still haven't figured that out today. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The gentleman from the ministry is smiling. But I ask the question. The audit reminds the mayors and mayors precisely because the property legal status of municipal infrastructure has not been resolved. And I agree with my colleague Kleman. And let alone where there is infrastructure still on private property, not transferred to the property of local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70131	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70132	Thank you very much. My colleague Demetlika, I think we can agree on a lot of things now. The only question is are we using existing legal solutions to solve this? So it is definitely that utility companies are set up to carry out a monopoly activity. And in order to carry out this monopoly activity, infrastructure projects are co-financed from everywhere. Now from European funds, from Croatian waters, in any way. One part from the budget, and one part from the surplus revenues of the utility companies. So that's a fact. If by the basis of the Company Act we can have a company with business units, why not establish a business unit for each communal activity and solve all problems? Bookkeeping knows how to handle it. It's another thing. Doing these monopoly jobs is different in a different environment. You have such a market situation somewhere that it's even cheaper for you to offer some things to the market because it's the competition to do it to you, but you have another situation where with a microscope you want someone to do it you can't find, so you start your own company. Then the logical thing is that this company that has not been used is 100% given the opportunity to do some market stuff. But you're going to tell him -- no, you're not going here with some lousy price on the citizens' account, but you're going to take a nice balance sheet to see how you did it. And then we solved a lot of things there. It's another thing. Friends and colleagues, today die not only in Croatia, but everywhere is terribly expensive. I can understand that the grave site costs so much and so much. But I can't figure out that digging 2 meters long, or a meter wide or less and 2 meters deep somewhere costs 3 and a half thousand kuna, somewhere costs a thousand, 200 kuna. It should simply be the same price everywhere. Also, if we want to liberalize the delivery to the burial site, then there must be market conditions, not that because man must be brought into the dig goes to peel our citizens. Liberalize yes, but under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70133	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70134	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker for the replica. What you started, I'll say, that there's a lot that we would agree on, and that's our proposal, and I think that's the kind of proposal that came to the ministry, that the same municipal enterprise with the departments, or that it's already going to split, and that's what we have the same observation that we're doing. So, if he cuts off a municipal company, which you call a monopoliest, and I would avoid the word monopolies, because by law he got that possibility, that within the functioning of local self-government, our cities and municipalities he had to do certain communal jobs. It's public affairs, and that's why they're responsible. What you yourself said, that in smaller units of local self-government, where there is no interest even in the privateer to run some jobs, then that utility jumps in and there has expanded its activities, so that you have examples of us in Istria, that the municipal enterprise maintains green areas for the area of the city or municipalities at the price approved by the assembly,... We know that the congregation is always the mayor or a certain person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That same utility, in the market competition, was more favourable than the private sector, for the mowing grass at the hotel company in... And in accounting you have a bone of grass for the city, a public part and you have a bone of grass for the private part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And to be more interesting, that the basket of grass for the city, the public part, is cheaper than the private part. And that's where we are, the direction of this debate, that we don't have to work some new utility companies, but through the same utility, with the separate introduction of finance, they can do more jobs. Whether they are market-based or they are purely what you said "monopolitans" and do so publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70135	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the 4th. The club of representatives, which is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, on behalf of whom the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary with associates. After these discussions and all the replicas already spoken on the proposal of this law, I will likely repeat myself in some things and in some reflections, and it will likely continue in the discussions of other colleagues and colleagues throughout the day. What I can generally say on behalf of our club, this bill is not good. This bill is bad, this bill simply, until the second reading, must experience complete changes and changes. Otherwise, we as a club, we're not likely to vote for the same vote. It's just, with everything that's already been said, with all the things that my colleagues have been saying in the debates, I'm just going to look back at a few things. The fact is that the state of affairs has been found, so these 18 amendments to the law, definitely, lead to one impossible insight into the law of the municipal economy at all, and that it is necessary to make a new law that would be complete and that in one place would give answers, to the needs of citizens, the championship here, we should primarily talk about the needs of citizens. The fact is, in the meantime, they passed some laws, which broke systems, which worked solidly. And now that we've already passed those laws, we have to do it with this law and sort it out as already said. But I'm asking a question, do we really have to keep breaking? Do we really have to stuff it, divide it, because it's hard to keep it going anyway in one pile in one piece? We're going diametrically contrary to some trends in the economy at the very least. The economy is uniting, and we in this public sector, we are breaking it now, and after that we are going to ask that the public sector, these public services, are still, ultimately, non-profitable, but to be at some degree, at some level, at some level of sustainability. There's a lot of mayors and mayors here, and people know how it works. I'll take one little example, try to show it too. Here, in my Križevci, we used to have a utility company, there was even one group in there, doing construction services, so the building was called. And people did work, they built, they were even on the market, they went to the competition, they worked for others, the law came, you have to stand out. We gave up, informed the company, the daughter of a utility company, got a director. And now this company is still doing the jobs that it's been doing before, it's reporting to competitions, as has been reported in the end case, before, because it's been registered at the Trade Court and it works in a way that we have double costs, that we have double reports that we have consolidated balances, I don't know what not. Then came the Water and Weapon Law. So now we've singled out, though, with a hard time, we've been the last in it, just these days, and it's in the Commercial Court and that activity, so we've got another company in the company that's doing the same jobs now, the same people are doing it, we just have another director. Now we have a situation, that we'll probably have to isolate purity, not purity, but waste management, we'll get another company. After that, the company probably won't be able to do that waste collection service either, so I guess we'll have to look for someone else in the competition. We now have a situation that we will have to address the issue of chimneys that we also have within the company. Public lighting is OK communal activity so it'll be able to stay, that's what we did. So we have practically opened up the company in the Trade Court the possibilities of all those services that were needed for citizens to meet the needs of citizens. I think it's one of the big problems of all our laws that primarily applies to local environments that laws are passed by watching the City of Zagreb. I think that's the problem. The city of Zagreb does not function in the same way as other cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia do, and it must become clear to someone. And we just fall into it all, cause problems, make it impossible for us to do business. Today, looking at this bill of law, I'm seriously saying that it's best to abolish local self-government, you don't need them. By the way we're going, we don't need them. Let's turn them off, why do we need them? We'll pass one law, we'll put everything in the competition and end the story. The fact that citizens won't have a favor, that when a private company fails, they won't be able to get that service, who's going to answer for it? We're really going. I don't even understand where we're going anymore, and I don't understand why we're doing it. Why are we working against ourselves? Because this definitely doesn't make sense. I'm going to stay for a while on the communal contribution and on the communal fee. So it is absolutely inadmissible for us to not allow local self-government to intervene, give relief and reduce municipal contribution and communal compensation. Especially in order to develop the economy. That really doesn't make any sense. And there's one more thing, maybe I got it wrong? But according to this bill, we're going to charge ourselves a communal fee. And we're going to charge ourselves a communal contribution. When I'm talking to myself, then I'm talking about institutions owned by local self-government units. They're not freed. So if we're going to build a school, we're going to charge ourselves a communal contribution, and then when we build it, we're going to charge ourselves a communal fee, and for all that, we're going to get the funds in the budget first. Is that real, are we thinking about what we're doing? It is my proposal here and our Club's proposal to include in that part of the release of the municipal contribution institutions owned by units of local self-government, to include firehouses, social homes, mountaineering homes, hunting homes, to include sports facilities owned by or units of local self-government or associations that are there, i.e. to enable the local self-government unit to provide such exemptions in both municipal and municipal compensation. Because it's really like we're not seeing each other with one eye. That's how it turns out when we propose some law. I've also been comparing some other laws a little bit, so I can see that this law has a lot of conflict with some other laws. Especially in this part of providing services, here it has been spoken a lot before about providing services to transport the deceased. So do we really have to do this so that the municipal enterprise that has a morgue that was built by the means of the citizens, who have the digs, held by the cemetery, can't do the service of transporting the deceased and equipping the deceased? She's on the market right now in that part. And now private persons or companies of society can do the same. So these public companies are on the market in that part and if they're not cheaper, and if they're not competitive, they're not doing it anyway. But are we aware that we're going to make people just wander, that they don't know where more to come from, who they're asking for, and that this service will eventually be questioned. I'm not inclined to form various companies, businesses, utility companies by small municipalities. It doesn't matter, my colleague Vard, so it's all taken, and then he'll answer his remarks, no problem. It means that after that, citizens have to pay more and more to actually make certain stupidities that happen and illogically that we have a situation in Croatia today that simply every small municipality is starting its own company. There are those where it's necessary, there's ones where it's not. You have situations where municipalities have co-ownership in a utility company, and then they've started their own company. But it's their decision, they've made it, they're responsible for that decision. There are also cases that such companies have already gone bankrupt that they have been pulling a series of problems, and there are. But then here again we forbid some utility companies who are trained to do it, who have invested huge funds in equipment, in business, now we forbid them to do it. Let's say, at the same time, we're doing a big step backwards. We're doing a law in which we're going to allow non-profit citizens' associations to do the digging. I don't mind. But I'm asking a question, so for ten years, we've been barging local committees, churches, all the living who did this to the utility companies to take care of cemeterys and funerals. Now, after so many years of catastris and cemeteries being built, while some cemeteries have already been taken over in these environments, when it's finally started to work we're going back and we say people start a nonprofit association. Now she's gonna do the digs. Well, I don't understand that. I don't understand another part of it here. I mean, I don't understand very much. In fact, I understand very little when I think about it a little bit. But you have the establishment of your own plant within the administrative department of local self-government that is established for a particular activity, type of activity, and for the area in which it will operate. The second paragraph of that same article states that it can also carry out tasks in the area of the second unit of local self-government even in other counties. I don't know if the lawmakers tried to read that law. I'm asking the Proposer have you made any simulations? I ask that every time. Have you tried to calculate whether the citizens will go cheaper or more expensive, whether the citizens will get better or worse service. Will there be problems in the functioning of local self-government and what will this ultimately result in? What will be the results? The market. Well, today, there's been a speech about it that you can't find a construction company in smaller cities, a company that's going to do some small business for you. That's what my colleague Shuker used to say. You can't find her. And if you don't have a chance for a guy like this to do a job like that, you have a big problem. Citizens are interested in getting a normal and fast service for some normal price. Under this law, they will be in one forest that will be difficult to see at all some light from which they will find it even difficult to find some way to solve their problems. I really insist that the Proposer amends this law thoroughly, that you look at it once again, that you find every possibility not to break it, but to remain united in this business, because this way, as we're going to break ourselves. Unless there are drastic changes in this direction and the sense I'm talking about, in which many have spoken and spoken. Our club will not be ready to support this law in a second reading. In the first, we'll support him just to get a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70137	Thank you. And your exposure caused a long line of replicas. Let's start from the beginning. The first is Honorable Representative Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70138	Dear colleague Hrg, when I speak, when you talk about this problem we say it for the reason we did these jobs and we know how it is and we have arguments about it, so I will now be free and read to you what it means to apply Article 22(2) of the maintenance of parts of public roads, which pass through the settlement. Apparition of the Croatian Roads to the Municipal Court in Rijeka on the lawsuit of a private prosecutor, and let our citizens hear this, and you who propose such an article of the law and all of us who will bring it. As evidence they give the Supreme Court ruling, the judgment of the County Court in Rijeka, the judgment of the County Court in Split, Bjelovar, Varazdin, Koprivnica, Rijeka, Krka, Split, etc. And they write Croatian roads and based on what they write and based on this article of the law, regular units of local self-government pay huge compensations and huge money they do not have in their budget and citizens need to know what they are paying for. And they are calling for this article of the law and in their explanation why the responsible Croatian roads write the cleaning of public roads passing through the settlement, and in the sense of cleaning, removing the slopes, individual stones fall into the communal activity of which the unit of local self-government is in charge, in this case the third defendant is sued in accordance with the provisions of Article 3(7). The Law on the municipal economy is therefore also responsible for the damage suffered by third parties due to maintenance failures, etc. etc. Then he further states in his explanation that they are like the Croatian roads within the populated town only in charge of cleaning snow. Oh, please! So here we've heard about some kind of failures that local self-government units should maintain. Some sort of rain drain inside the hull of the road. It is known what the road is, it is known who is the investor of the road, it is known by the law who is responsible for unclassified roads, for roads owned, under the management of the county, Croatian roads. This is how everything falls on the burden of local self-government units. Local self-government units do not have the means to do so, and the funds they pay, pay out of their citizens' pockets and must give up projects they have realised because of these convictions. And the verdict is based on this lawmaking and on this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70139	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70140	Well, colleague Klaric, we understand each other, many of us understand each other in that section in this assembly. I too have often found it unclear in all these years to finally pass a law that goes to harm, therefore, not to the harm of local self-government. You said it right in the end. All of this is paid by the citizens. And I really don't understand that we act like them all the time. Local self-government is the capillary system of the state and the state is one thing. And it just has to stop switching to each other, and there's got to be one system that's going to work together, how this body is going to live. The local self-government is practically that branch and the ultimate, ultimate part of some kind of structure that citizens come to. The citizens come to you as mayor, to the mayor a little harder, to the minister at all. And you are responsible for everything, or every local leader. He is the one who has to explain it to every man, so how will you explain it to a man now? You can't explain what's here when you can't explain it to yourself, and that law has been passed. Therefore, this law that we are discussing now must definitely be fully redesigned, it must be proposed completely and disabled as much as possible of such nebulosis as possible. And not only are they in this law, there are hundreds that always go to harm, I say, not local self-government, but citizens living in a particular part of the Republic of Croatia, and there are problems. And that's that part of the city over 30,000 people took over the roads again, so okay. They get the money for it, but you didn't take the roads because you don't have 30,000 residents, and then this happens to you. Then give the money to God.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70141	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Hrg, I volunteered for the replica exactly the moment you spoke about the separation of the municipal company and the tickling of several of them. So I completely agree with you that it would be unnecessary for these utility companies that are left with us to extract waste and collection. Well, just at that time, given the position of the promoter that the Law on the Communist Economy should not be what is arranged elsewhere, I looked at what it looks like in the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. Therefore, Article 32(3) states that ‘a provider of services other than the provision of waste collection or collection services shall also carry out other activities must ensure an accounting credible monitoring of income and expenditure of activities and the organisational separation of activities’. And here I agree that this is what these same companies need, and we need to abide by exactly the applicable law. And what's little about collapsing is in the proposal exactly Article 36(3), where it says that a commercial company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity. Now here you're thinking of market economic activity, but when someone reads it, it turns out that they can't even do all that's prescribed by some other law. And that's where we come from, that in the debate, we're always saying that we're going to have to split up. I think we should clarify this in the articles of the provision and make it clear that we do not need these small utility companies, especially in small municipalities, to recapture some additional companies or companies, because in this way we will practically destroy them and will no longer be able to function at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70143	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70144	Thank you very much, colleague Totgergeli, for doing this very quickly. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Many such items would be found in the articles of this proposal, and all this would result in the fact that the law could not be applied. And you know what would be best in the end? So that perhaps the leaders of local self - government would be called and perhaps even persecuted after that because some things could not be done. And this parting thing, you're coming from the HEP system, and if we can't learn what can't be done on that system then we can't go anywhere because what happened there and how it all split up there, how it doesn't work now, it's for a debate special in this assembly. So do we need this in the territory of all Croatia in every city that in this way we have a situation, that we are not functional, that we do not work? Look, the prices of services are being made by a representative body at the very end of the case, it decides on the prices of services, the people who chose these same people they said would be the price when the contractor proposed it and offered it. So who better to decide than the people in that part? Is that expensive? We don't know. We only know when to look. We've had cases of chimney services, and that's what we were talking about today, so you can see the circus when the smokers come to you that don't do your job, they just write that they were so when there's a fire or what's going on. That's why we've set up our own service in the Križevci that works and built a chimney cadastre that no one's ever done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70145	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70146	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague Hrg, I listened to your debate, and I agree with it most 100%. I've just been asked to report this explanation of yours to a poor prognosis that they're going to have to chop up these utility companies. Those ticklings proved to be bad at the state level. I come from HZ Infrastructure where the EU directive has been misunderstood, which has asked for companies to be financially separated and to enable market liberalisation so that others can perform certain services, not that we have to divide the company because we have divided the company into four parts, four major companies and then we have also set out lines that ultimately do not function as well as they did before when it was a single company. So it's bad practice. We can't repeat bad practice, we should always look at practice. So a practice that is good must be rewritten and possibly improved, and a practice that is bad must not be repeated, and in that spirit I agree with you. If certain processes need to be better explained, better defined then they can be defined within the same company, can be defined through some services, through some procedural changes, and it is not necessary to isolate these companies as some new companies because new administrations, new supervisory committees, new staff jobs, new finances will be created in this regard. So people are going to accuse us of re-enacting some new people who aren't really needed. Here, that's how much I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70147	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70148	Thank you very much. Well, they'll come safely in this case, and there's already been an increase in that administrative section. Because you in these communal societies today, 30% of the work people do there are basically writing reports. They don't know who to write all the reports to anymore. They're all wanted by some kind of report. They've been writing reports all day. You can't hire new ones because you're overcrowded like that. It's not profitable, and you have a problem. And what's said, that your example as well as the one I mentioned earlier, there are others in Croatia, they speak exactly that way. It's big systems. And this is a big system, if you look at all of Croatia, this is a very large system. And he needs to be really careful about that part, in respecting European directives. I'm not against them being respected. But we often respect something that none of us ask for. And then we look at a neighbouring country that's the same in the European Union and we see that that's not the case. So I'm asking myself, are those directives different then? They're not the same. What's going on? We're in this situation, in this case, from this one hip we have in a town now want to make three hips. And so their hands and feet were helping each other, so if the right hand had failed, the left hand had helped, so it worked. Now we're going to separate them, and now they're all going to be bigger hips. That's the problem, and I absolutely say it has to be seen in the law that it stays maximum in any possible unification, not disunity wherever possible. If someone really wants a divorce, let them have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70149	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70150	My dear colleague, I have answered the line for one reason only, which I support you in your debate for the reason that you have most complicatedly explained all the negative consequences of this bill's proposal. Your concept is correct. Our club in this context absolutely supports it for what my colleague Tulio Demetlika said in other and other examples. And if we can't all get together, first of all, the proposings and those behind it, then the result of this law will be nothing but a more expensive service for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which should never be our goal. The liberalisation that restricts the activities of local self-government units, which neglects what units of local self-government and companies have invested in modernising, equipping, raising quality standards and yet bringing this law into line with the need to ask someone at the ministry whether or not it can deal with certain activities, I think it is a completely absurd situation. And nextly, as compared to the number of objections that have arrived, saying that those who have given certain opinions not to enter the controversy, is something that is absolutely unacceptable on the side of the state level. And the number of remarks received by 501 definitely indicates that this law is not good and that it is bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70151	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70152	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I think there's one problem here at first that's present in many law-making. I don't think there's been a real analysis of the situation and it's not seen how it works. And we're going into something without knowing what it's like now and we want to change it. I'm not saying it works so well everywhere. I'm not saying. I'm sure there's a problem. But I'm convinced that in 80% of the local self-government units, now I'm going to be primarily focused on cities without demeaning anyone. Simply cities are bigger, so they have stronger capacity because I say and some municipalities are co-owners of such businesses, so they do services together, that there is hardly a city in Croatia that has not gone 100% up in these 25, 26 years, at least 100% worse. And you said yourself there was a huge amount of money, a huge effort. There's been a huge shift. Well, all we can do is tell the citizens to look at their utility companies and their services and the equipment they had 20 years ago today. Well, obviously, every day we see what happened. And now let's go break it all. Now we're gonna split those trucks, we're gonna split three trucks into three companies, three divers into three companies, and everyone's gonna have a CEO. So we'll be like the ministries where there'll be five bosses and one worker. That's the kind of situation we've got, everybody's somebody's boss. People don't even know who their boss is, they're employees, and no one's answering.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70153	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponze. Excuse me, Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70154	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrg, I answered the line at the time you were talking about funeral service. I understand you as the former head of the local self-government unit. I understand all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate today were or were the leaders of local self-government. It is also normal for every praise that they advocate their units of local self-government, that their citizens get as high quality, as best and as cheap a service as possible. But are these units aimed at local self-government and strong businessmen? I'm sure they must be. Because only strong businessmen can hire these people who live in these units of local self-government. At this point when you were talking about equipment and everything else that they own now these societies that deal with and funeral activities, I would point out that we had a 2010 law that made it impossible for private workers to actually work. He voted the following if the local self-government unit owns a company registered to carry out a funeral activity should not call a concession tender but be awarded to that company. When she took over the transport of the deceased, she normally took over and sold funeral equipment. So do we think someone's gonna come to the funeral home and arrange to transport the deceased and then go five miles away to buy the funeral equipment? I must point out that, according to the analysis at that time, 42% of small mortuary activities were closed. So it's our craftsmen. That's why I'd like to see it from both sides. I'm not against this, but we need to hear them, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70155	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70156	Thank you very much, colleague. I'm not against the fact that these services are performed by private companies or by natural persons who are registered for it. But they can do it now, but we're now making it impossible for the utility companies to do it. That's the problem. In my town, it was never disputed that a private person could do the services of sending the deceased to that part of the law. We made it possible for everyone who answered. Why not? If a man wants to choose, let him choose. But we also made it possible for the company that owns the local self-government to have it. Let them compete in the market, if the privates are cheaper, the citizen will go to the private. Oh, my God. Let these also settle in some of the prices that are there. I don't know what a private company or a private natural person can do or someone else. Why would they make it impossible? We can't just go hard on each other, we can't cut. We make it possible for everyone, but why am I in favour of this public service? Because she guarantees safety, when a private company stops working, when a disturbance happens, then we get to these again. In this way, citizens are assured that they will surely be able to obtain the service. And I mentioned it just before the chimney. We had a concession and we had thousands of problems like many in Croatia. We didn't get any documents from any of the contracts in court at the end to break the contract, we waited for it to expire. Because we couldn't give people a real favor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70157	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70158	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrg. So it is clear to me also the proposal's intention, and it is related to Article 36(3) where the local self-government unit is now being defended from their utility companies to deal with commercial activities. There is indeed a unit of local self-government that is in that I say inappropriate. So there's no more activity they're not dealing with. However, this ban story seems to be crossing the scope of this ministry. The Ministry took care of social problems that weren't really their problems. So we have the Public Procurement Act, we have the inspections, we have a lot of other mechanisms to make the competition transparent and equal for everyone. It's not just this ministry's job. That's why I think no ban is the answer. We forbid it now, you said well in the debate, you say if someone has three trucks or several of these machines, now his machines have to stand because someone forbidd him to report to a competition where it could be cheaper where ultimately not only for citizens but for a local self-government unit, it would be cheaper. Because if someone has a public concession to supply drinking water and if they announce a tender for public works, why can't a utility come forward? Only then must it be transparent. It's the same with funeral activities. Well, someone needs to ban a public utility company from giving information about the time of the burial. Well, I guess that, and then the man complains, sends it to the ministry, sends it to the public procurement control office, no one's answering him. And that's why we're coming to these situations where people are complaining, and it was probably the pressure on the Ministry to introduce it because there's a mess. And there's a mess because inspections don't do their job and nobody in this country really cares until there's a bigger problem, and now we're going to go over the ban. It's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70159	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70160	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – The trading company shall carry out municipal activities on the basis of a decision to entrust the public activity carried out by the representative body of the local self-government unit, i.e. the representative bodies of several units of local self-government in the event that several units of local self-government are engaged in one or more municipal activities organised jointly. Article 3 — A commercial company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity. That's what it looks like on this example. It's not clear to me that I have to admit a little bit and it confuses all this together and probably the promoter knows what he wrote and knows why he wrote something like that. I said in the debate, and now I'm telling you one more time. The problem that hits people in this country over the head is that the laws are mostly passed in view of the functioning of the City of Zagreb. For God's sake, the City of Zagreb would have to have special laws for all because it's also one quarter of the state in the extreme case. So that everything that applies in Zagreb cannot be applied in smaller cities, it cannot simply be applied that way, and we are passing a law that is the same for all. It can't be the same for everyone, it can't be. We have to go to a system of unification at these local levels, especially in rural areas. When I talk about rural areas, I'm talking about cities below 20 grand down towards municipalities, it's all rural for God's sake, what I'm talking about. We have to force them to unite, not force themselves, but to unite themselves to organize some services together, not to do these things to them yet to break it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70161	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70162	Thank you very much. Well, since we've already had enough of this stuff, I'd go one step further, and that's article 113, and authority and rights, the obligation of the communal directors. I don't think that at the principle level of authority there are any inspections in Croatia, none, not even the MUP. But if we were to define whether these communal monks are doing what they have to do, then it's not a problem. It doesn't matter that he needs to legitimize someone, exactly when he gets a warrant to control something based on the Law on Communal Order that he has to be present and that he has to realize that it is.... But it's far more important that they control to clean up the ambrosia, that if there's a new facility that doesn't have a building permit, that a bunch of building spaces must be arranged, and not that the fire comes to us in the summer itself, the city center of several thousand inhabitants, because of that, it's the function of the communal director. Let's define that for him, and according to the Law of Administrative Procedure and some other things, the logical thing for you when the tax inspector enters the space, he can enter the space, and outside the space no, then he legitizes and asks who the party is on the other side. It shouldn't be written here. But look here, it's fantastically written what a municipal director can do, but it's not written what he should do because I think there are a lot of colleagues in this assembly who are allergic to ambrosia. Let's look around Croatia at how many municipal directors have written a fine to landowners because they haven't cleaned up the ambrosia. That's the point of the story, it's the task of the state, not here to prescribe repression. Simply by administrative procedure you know, you know if you get a warrant to go control something, is, is exactly where you stand, you come to a particular place you have a party on the other side, you have to check her identity and it's the most normal thing. But prescribing this kind of thing isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70163	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed HRG representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70164	Comrade Shuker, thank you for opening this topic, I've had it prepared for discussion, but I haven't been able to touch it for a short period of time. Communal monks can hardly write applications for ambrosia because ambrosia must be reported to the agricultural inspector. And then when they report to the agricultural inspector, we don't know what's going on anymore and everything stays there. I read that part in the debate about the communal directors, and I have to admit that we're doing Superman out of people. If the communal directors who are today and traffic directors and I don't know, and I guess they'll have environmental protection, they could do all that, they'd be supermans and they'd have to pay a lot more than the head of local self-government. There we have prescribed many things that are very difficult to implement. But I agree with you absolutely that this law must describe the work of the communal director because the communal director is the first and main person in the space in some local self-government who cares about order and order in the space and local self-government. Let us make it possible for him not to have to read ten different laws half the time to know how and where he can do it, let him do it. It says here he can legitimize, I'm not sure he can, or even I'm sure he can't. I'll be ID'd, I'll give him a ID, but someone who won't give him a personal ID won't legitimize him. What's a sergeant got to do with it? This one doesn't get personal and what now? They'll call the police. While he calls the police, the man will of course leave. That's what happens in that part of the traffic directorship now, the same story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70165	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70166	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrg, through your presentations at the end I listened a little bit, so you said what the citizens were getting. I would also like to know when this law was passed whether some arguments came before that and visible which municipal companies were not doing well, and we know that these are companies that have been working for years in one city. According to these statements, everyone who listens to these companies needs to be separated in several companies, and we know well over the past 20 years that the mass of the companies that have broken up has become a problem. I'm afraid that even now this law will not allow certain people some privilege. And the other thing about utility companies that have been stalking for how many years, 50 years maybe even more functioning fantastically, nice with what they need to be controlled, whether they're doing well, whether they're legally, whether they're raising some of their communal fees more than they should, eventually they're doing it in cities and having their own councils and everything else. I personally think that sometimes we make laws just to be made and to please someone. I don't believe that Europe has ordered that we need it. We should be an example that we can do something different than others do, of course we need to set the laws so that no crime can be committed, that nothing can be done over any norms in order for citizens to be satisfied and to pay as little as possible. And if we're going to break up, I'm afraid some company is gonna take something and go bankrupt tomorrow and then who's going down again, the city. The party will come back to town, the party will come into town and ask how I can handle it. Like you said about the chimneys, what's going on? Here comes the city's problem again. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] So, you have to take care of everything, and then they bring it in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70167	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70168	When a man has a problem, something has to be solved first he wants to know that he can handle it. At that point, that's his first thing. When you get to a town, someplace you see first? See if the streets are arranged, whether they're beautiful houses, facades, whether they're built, they're not. See if the city is neat, if it's clean, what it looks like. That's the first impression. It's a picture of that utility company. So that's something anyone who comes up with firsthand. And that's why it has special status with all due respect to all the companies that some local self-government have in institutions. So, the utility company is definitely a vessels cook, that's what comes first at all. And any of that smashing will lead to us having a situation like you know when you have more masters in the house, so some of them building, then you take the other one that's going to shrug. Well then they say they've built badly, so we have to spend a lot more noise. Then the electricians come to her, how they did it, so there's concrete, we can't set up the installations. So the gasmen came, and then they couldn't, and then the water came, and so it went in order. That's how we do it now. Instead of having one system that comes in and the key in our hands to say so, you're being taken, at the very least you understand it better than I am, at the very least, an entrepreneur. But it definitely wasn't here. I dare say that. There has been no analysis of the situation here, and there are no foreseeable effects that will be and that is the problem of the law. Any law that doesn't have a proper analysis as a basis and which has no intended effect is not a good law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70169	Thank you very much. And here we are in the middle of the hour in what six hours we're already at the fifth club, and that's the SDP club on behalf of which the respected representative, Marco Vedligaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70170	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm extremely pleased that today at least in the debate here we agree on this law that I had yesterday and warned at the parliamentary stop itself how harmful it is to the units of local self-government, and, of course, to all of our citizens. I believe that this law should take great care of what remains in the public sphere and what remains in private. So what will be public authority and be performed as a public service according to the principles of public law, it is important of course for citizens and it is important whether the state will be the one to regulate the mutual relations between public services and users and whether all users will be in the same position. And are all our users in the same position under this law? Well, of course not. They would then not have so much of the aforementioned Article 36(3), which states that the company carries out exclusively verified municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity. It's an article that needs to be deleted immediately from the law. I believe it will happen until the second reading at least my personal position is, and so will the position of the SDP club, and we will be against such a bill. That law should be passed, it should actually be against him already in the first reading, bring him back to the ministry to work it out, and then we can normally discuss this law. We have heard here explanations, extractions to a Europe, on EU directives according to which this article is listed, actually inserted into the bill. We didn't get an explanation of what the directive was. And that restriction actually for utility companies only has two intensities, only two intensities. It is one or more direct priority for the private sector in the field where it should compete with the public sector in an equal competition. Or necessarily he's leading the establishment of new companies, new companies. So that means increasing red tape, more directors, more board members, more secretaries. And what do citizens get out of these crazy laws? Well, they're getting higher utility prices, I guess that's pretty clear to everyone. The restriction is, of course, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which clearly states that the law can limit entrepreneurial freedom to protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, human health, human environment and human health. The public companies know that companies also have the right to carry out market activities. In particular, we point out this once again, and many times here is said today in the debate it refers especially to smaller cities, medium-sized cities, and even larger cities. We can only exclude the city of Zagreb because of its huge budget revenues and metropolis status. By performing these market activities, in fact, cities and municipalities enable their residents in a way and a more favourable communal service, ensure better expression of municipal infrastructure. These companies are nonprofits. Well, the profits actually go into the city budgets. Of course I speak formally. It goes into the city budget and is used again for some public needs. There's no dividend. And we're going into some restructuring, I guess, of a sector that employs thousands of people of which of course, and if such a bill is passed, many could be out of a job. So where's the public interest? Do we have him somewhere? We don't have it, gentlemen. We don't have it, because the private sector can carry out all these activities, including municipal activities, and the public sector can't market. The private can get a concession here for 20 years, Article 48 while public trust can be entrusted, okay, this is probably in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the Framework Agreement for a maximum of 4 years. It's just some things and some illogicalities. Well, he's not bad just because of these provisions that now and this article that I've been quoting, which is the most controversial, because he's actually going to have the most implications for our citizens. For the same reason, however, certain activities from the utility and service utility domain are actually moving, so now smokemaking is no longer a communal activity. This again actually means in some way a special increase in prices for our citizens. Look, it's not a problem right now if we're going to get a smoker in some area. We'll call the competition. He'll be very likely, very likely someone will answer. Maybe even that city or municipality will get a bigger concession, a bigger budget revenue. It'll be 10, 20, 30 thousand kuna. But what kind of price will he make for our citizens tomorrow? And just because the chimney was a communal activity, it was one instrument that we could trust with our communal societies and then through them, of course, since we're their founders, influence that price to remain acceptable to our citizens. Now through this proposal this instrument is actually lost. Furthermore, why must the representative body of the unit of local self-government seek consent to determine which are municipal, which are in fact the municipal activities he considers to be? Is that decentralisation? Is that the EU's respect for standards? Well, it's actually about just one centralization of decision-making and one underestimation I'd even say underestimating local self-government that it's not even capable without the minister's approval or consent to determine what it would be like to do now. Why is it in the law of non-profit associations as a new organisational form, as stated in the law of activity? There is a specific maintenance of the grave and burial services in those cemeterys owned by the religious community. This is entirely contrary to the Law on Cemeteries, which prescribes that cemeteries are exclusively owned by units of local self-government. What are the provisions on strike in the Law on the Communist Economy? Why the special definition of an institution in this law? So in most cases, this law states that it is superior to the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Institutions, the Labour Act, the provisions on strike, non-profit associations, the working relations of officials, etc. The law does not regulate this legal nature and the purpose of the municipal compensation and the communal contribution which remains for the purpose of revenue with this specific, with an extension to certain areas which can now be financed from the very communal fee or contribution. Although we have a decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 July 2017 in which the court took the view that units of local self-government have the right to autonomous decision on all aspects of their own income due to constitutional limitations of the legislative authority to local and regional self-government. Liberation from municipal fees and municipal contributions that many municipalities and cities used to attract entrepreneurs, now disappearing, are now being wiped out. So what's this message to entrepreneurs, to the people who invested in our business zones? And now I'm going to remember a little bit here and the history of the communal fee that we've abolished for... here and a real estate tax that I guess gave up at least now we're hearing some new articles in the media because something's coming up again. But now one question. Who's going to settle the costs that local self-government units have had since the introduction of what they gave up overnight? Of course no one. But the important thing is that we spent public money. What matters is that they spent their resources on someone's missing decisions. Communal redistribution, another aspect that could have been, and it's not regulated by this law. The authority has heard the same thing here on several occasions that the jurisdiction of several previous years is also the jurisdiction and powers of the communal directors are in fact largely, they have grown largely and today they face great problems that all these powers and obligations are regularly met. Therefore, not only do those tasks, the communal directors entrusted to them under the Law on the Communist Economy. So today they have the jurisdiction of a whole series of jobs based on the Law on Building Inspection, the Animal Protection Act, the Law on Noise Protection, the Law on State Management of Waste. So they can manage traffic, etc. So that's one aspect of where traffic law enforcement comes in. So, I think we also need to make this notion of communal redistribution clearer, that we need to start a process of transforming municipal redistribution, and I don't see it anywhere in this law. Finally, I will only comment on one more article before I reach any conclusion. Therefore, the law lays down the obligation to form a natural record of municipal infrastructure. Well, we can all agree that, of course, it's a good provision. But look, he's six months old and he's completely inappropriate. Given all the obligations that this draft should make, the units of local self-government should take over, so this should be extended for at least a year, and I probably said that a little bit. To end, that most important law regarding local self-government unfortunately public consultation, you could see in the materials in which it was implemented. It's not true what the secretary of state said that only the ministries take note of certain comments. No, I don't. The departments need to explain. Let him look at some other laws and how some other ministries provided answers and comments on what they received through public consultation. Because that's what public counseling is for. So the law should, of course, be one lex generalis to express myself for the entire local self-government, or this communal activity, which is the same about 60, 70% of all those functions that we perform. Of course not. The mass of the law is inconsistencies with this law. It doesn't take care enough, I repeat again, or the Law on Commercial Society, the Law on Institutions, the Law on the right to access information. And no one has asked any units of local self-government, our interest organisations associations of cities and municipalities what we think of it. Are these attitudes respected? They're not respected. We are referring to some directives, and where is the principle of subsidiarity that says that a decision on common issues must be transferred to lower levels of government while the central government only has a complement to the local political decision? Well, look, we'd a little Europe, so a little bit wouldn't. So just a message that, this law will pass that I am sorry that the ruling majority will vote for it, even if this would be for the first time a debate in which we all agreed, but it will pass into the second reading. Correct this law until the second reading, we have or you have a lot of work to do here because this proposal is going towards further centralised instead of so much announced decentralisation, it is going towards privatisation, liberalisation, something Europe has rejected and is moving towards the process of recombinantisation today. So he returns public services to utility companies, returns them to cities, municipalities, to the state. Because citizens expect a good, efficient service, of course, and to pay as little as possible. But they're willing to even pay maybe in some cases more just to make that service efficient and good. That's why we're here, we're all state and city and municipality and county and of course the ministry. And everyone's first thought should be the benefit and interest of our citizens, and this bill is not going that way. Because of these numerous illogicalities that I have mentioned only some through this debate, and I will also mention the suspicion of favoring certain lobbys, the SDP will be against this law in the first reading, and I hope that the other club representatives will support us and actually make a final one decision that will be true in the interests of the citizens and give the red card, send to the correctional ministry to make a proposal, a new proposal for a law on the municipal economy that will respect all of our remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70171	Thank you, Mr. Vesligai. On his show on behalf of the club, we have eight replicas. He's a colleague of the Bulls first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70172	Thank you very much. My colleague, I would agree, from the end, I would like to conclude that this law, I believe, is going to pass, I believe, and my colleague Klaric, as head of the local self-government, who shelled this law with justice, perhaps even more than you rightly do give him support. I'm clear and everything you said you said was actually true. In fact, there will be heavy burdens here, losses to the financially unsustainable local self-government. The central authority of this law is essentially euthanizing local self-government leaders as city councils and directors of power, and it did not give financial support, so the financials are gone. I repeat again Article 22, in which all roads in settlements are due, activities that will have to be managed by the city or municipalities, local self-government and county and state. Now imagine what they've done with this law! And even in the debate, the secretary of state because there is no minister, says the roads will pay for Croatian roads or county roads that you will have to write a request as mayor, head of local self-government, mayors, to the Prime Minister to grant you that money that you have invested. Well, it's a disaster, it's a typical attempt at euthanasia of local self-government, centralization of unprecedented proportions. This is a law that you can simply call a lex hack, this is a harrassor of the people, the people will not have services, the local leaders will not have the means for all these activities that they have intended for them, and in addition they have still given public authority, taken off our societies, mostly water supplies that are most painful to me with waste, but water supply, in fact this law is a step in the HNS's proposal to privatise water supplies. And it's a painful privatisation of water supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70173	Thanks, buddy Bull. Time. Replication response, here you go, Mr. Squishy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70174	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's fellow Bull, that you mentioned something well I know from my practice. This is a transfer of liabilities to local self-government without the transfer of certain financial resources in order to meet those obligations. I have to say, I'm going to be very objective here, that the Law on the financing of local self-government units in one part of that situation has improved for part of the local self-government unit. However, decentralisation is a process that must last, which must go on all the time. You can't single-handedly, with one measure give something and then take it. And this is an eclectic example that you mentioned here, that maintenance of roads that are not owned by units of local self-government we have to maintain them, and someone actually gets funds from various fees from the state budget for their maintenance and has no obligation to do so. So I see that today throughout the debate you mention this here, I didn't mention it in the debate itself because there are so many articles that could be commented that probably this debate in front of the club could take an hour, an hour and a half to mention everything. But I absolutely agree with you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70175	Thank you, Agent Vesligai. Replica colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70176	Thank you very much, Vice President. You have the experience of a leader in local self-government, and you know very well what the obligations of communal directors are and what they have to do because when some other laws don't know what someone would do, then he transferred it to the employees. The same is the idea in this law that stretches that they do some more things, so we had opportunities in the paper to read that here is the introduction of the municipal police. I recognize the interests of those who have the most communal directors or inspectors no matter what we call them, which is the City of Zagreb, which could, without any problem, introduce a municipal police force who would be right to look for OIB and some other things, and we see what it is in any sense that the topic has gone to the OIB and related to some data. But my replica doesn't apply to that. I want to know how many of you in your local self-government unit really have them, how many they are operational and how effective and how well they can do all that this law has added to their jurisdiction. And I'm kind of suggesting that they might be called supercoma. We have that superman, so we have, so why don't we have these employees, so we call it a supercom, so they're doing everything. At this point I think there are very small things that don't work, so then we can give them something else. But I wonder how many you have, how many they can be operational. Because if this is decided through one law, then we need to know what we have on the ground, how much financial obligation that is to direct, which is indirect to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70177	Thank you. Answer my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70178	Thank you. Here's colleague Mrak-Taritash's first answer very specific to your question I have in the city of Pregrad we have one communal director and of course I mentioned in the debate what all the laws should fall under his jurisdiction. Of course, not nearly all of this can carry out the tasks it should have in power. And of the seven officers we have in town, they're sort of all dealing with parts of municipal redistribution. But I also mentioned in the debate that we need to start a process of transforming completely this communal order, that we need to do one complete analysis but let's start, but then let's group at least those local units normally into smaller, medium, larger medium, large cities that you mentioned yourself that have whole departments, the whole mass of officials to express myself like that. And let's see what can be done in terms of size, given the financial capacity of each local unit to perform these things that are entrusted to the municipal directorship. I think we need to make it much clearer, much better regulated. Yes, there is this decision by the assembly, the City Association, to move into some kind of transformation towards the city police. I don't need it right now. I know what it's like to get the media caught up in it. However, redistribution, we have municipal redistribution and redistribution, and we should not have police involved in certain matters in any way. But why wouldn't we? Because we have traffic directors in that part. Which is why they wouldn't have some kind of authority regarding traffic and other things and could actually bring them down to the level of units of local self-government. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70179	Thank you, Agent Vesligai. Next up is colleague Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You spoke in your presentation, or you gave the fact, that you doubted that this law suits a particular part of the private sector. I don't doubt that at all. Therefore, this law is a lobbyist law and therefore goes in the direction to remove from companies owned by a local self-government unit the part of the municipal activity that brings profits. And it actually seems to me that if this law is adopted in this form, that it is not necessary then that we give certain concessions, that we only give concessions to certain municipal activities to private companies, but let's go to the entire municipality, give the whole city to the private sector in concessions, so some private person, a private company takes one city, one municipality, a concession for 25, 30 years or how long this law could make it possible. So now that we're ideologically approaching the Middle Ages, some public phenomena, then let's just keep going back to the Middle Ages, so instead of the municipalities and cities, we'll actually have property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70181	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70182	Thank you. Here's fellow Mateo, so here's what you actually mentioned is what I said and in the debate itself, but here's what you've given me a chance to maybe explain that one thing a little bit more. Look, we're going into a process that developed EU countries, the countries of the West, as we like to call them, rejected and realized that something must actually remain a state, something must remain to be run by society, to be social property, state property. It doesn't matter what we call it now. Because what happened? When they privatized these municipal services, there was a reduction in quality, there was a violation of universal access to service at all. And of course there was an increase in prices. There's actually been a collapse of a whole one system that's worked well for decades. She probably had her roots there somewhere back in the '80s when Margaret Thatcher started Ronald Reagan in America with that famous neoliberalization. And unfortunately, this neoliberalization has entered all the pores of society. But here's the Western society realizes it's not good, so they reject it. And we will probably need a period as someone said in the discussion that we should learn from our own mistakes, and then we will follow their example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70183	Thank you, Agent Vesligai. Next up is a colleague of Branka Juricev's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70184	Thank you very much, Vice President. You, like most colleagues today, and I personally expressed dissatisfaction with Article 36. I am convinced that by the second reading, the promoter will change something about this article. You also mentioned that you would like it to be, that the chimney services are listed here as a municipal activity, and I would add jobs, i.e. the activity of deratization and disinsectation. It's particularly current with us down by the sea. However, I would not agree with you that this law is so harmful, so bad because we need to know that the Law on the Communist Economy has been since '95. In effect. He's had 18 changes, and all of that together, he's in front of us on the table. We know a lot has happened all this time and a lot is happening every day. Some of the provisions in the law did not apply. We also know who we were or who you were still at the head of cities and municipalities, for example the tax on unbuilt construction land that it stood in law and from before but was not applied. The more individual leaders who went into this application had to return funds, so here I invite you all to make constructive proposals together for changes and additions that will really be what our citizens and cities and municipalities deserve by the second reading. And now, through the debate, let's take it out and through later if necessary through the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70185	Thank you. The answer to the replica please choose a colleague of the Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70186	Thank you, colleague. Well, I wish you a lot of success, actually, to change this article in Article 36(3). I've given my reasons for why we as a club will be against this law, and in my opinion, it's simply irreparable. But of course we'll support all those good proposals, all the good amendments. If there's another reading, we'll give our amendments as well. And I agree with you in the part where you mentioned these deratization services, disinsections should certainly also be municipal services, also something that is extremely necessary for our citizens, and which is why not if we have resources, which is why we don't do it through our communal societies, I don't see any obstacles. But some obviously see it. I repeat again. I wish you all the luck to get that out of your mouth to put it that way, because I think maybe we, as a local self-government, have a little bit of an appointment here. At least there were a lot of objections in the very law at public consultations. This law may have made us louder and more active, because some others were obviously, so now this law has come before us. I believe, once again, that he is incorrigible, that we should send a clear message to the ministry that we do not adopt him with such provisions, because similar things might happen to us in another reading. Here's my warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70187	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70188	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, you, as head or mayor, have made clear all the problems and harmfulness of this law. And I'm glad we heard that on the other hand from the mayor or the local self-government unit bearer of this law. And probably the minister didn't have the likely dignity or what to defend this bad law that came to her first reading. Here's just one example, and there's a colleague of the Dark-Taritash mentioned the communal directors. It says nicely in Article 11. "The local self-government units can by contract form a joint operation of municipal directors." So municipal director, you said in the city you have one communal director. The municipalities have four municipalities with one communal director. Will your communal directors be able to do those jobs? That's impossible, and we know that the salary level in certain units of local self-government is actually below 20%. So, new employment is gone and I think this one, as I mentioned, is incredibly harmful to local self-government units. And here's what everyone calls it, and I said it's a law that should be called a "lex crematorium".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70189	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70190	Here, thanks, buddy. You said in your replica that I mentioned all the problems that made this law bad. Unfortunately, I didn't do it because I didn't have time. But I believe that today we are really here during the debate that all the clubs, I repeat again, are glad that the real debate can be said that it was really unanimous to put it that way. Well, since you mentioned this municipal redistribution, I've only got one in town. I also have an agricultural director, but I share him with two other units of local self-government. So that's what we did, and that's what a number of other local units in Krapina-Zagorian County do. I don't know what else it's like to rationalize those costs. I say, it's probably a way to try to unite certain services at the level of several units of local self-government and so legal solutions also we have to bring here, not really have a law like this that wasn't supposed to appear at all. He was not allowed to appear in front of this Croatian Assembly at all, and this is what the people of the position and the opposition have discovered today. They were unanimous. The only difference is that the position will probably support him in his first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70191	Thank you. Here you go, pal Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70192	Thank you, Vice President. In your presentation, you said that this law and this approach to the adoption of this law are underestimating the leaders of units of local self-government and because of this debate in the Croatian Parliament today, but also because of more than 500 objections in the public debate in the preparation of this law. And it is obvious that the promoter did not really take care of the interests of both the local self-government unit and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which, if adopted by this law, would surely contribute to the local level, especially in rural areas of municipal service, the cost of our citizens to ultimately pay for such bad provisions of this law. But you also mentioned the harmfulness towards investment and attracting investors because there is no more exemption from municipal compensation and it is clear that it is bad that our environments that do not have the same conditions as Zagreb, Varazdin and other environments will not be able to attract less investors. In particular, it was not a principle of proportionate benefit, because this law does not give objective criteria for determining the monetary amount of municipal contribution that investors are obliged to contribute to the municipal infrastructure, but is left to make their own decision, that they can even change it while the investment is going on and thus we will continue with legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia and investors will continue to escape especially from these smaller environments. And especially when it is left to decide that the previous agreement on the prices of municipal services is given by the mayor and the mayor, and in our opinion from the HSS, this should be a representative council, therefore, a municipal council or a city council, that one community participates in this and define prices for the benefit of citizens, as well as investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70193	Thank you. The answer to the replica please choose a colleague of the Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70194	Thank you. Well, here's to it, my colleague Vlaovic, you said exactly, I said in my debate that this law is extremely underestimating to all the leaders of the local self-government unit, and I'm glad that you mentioned in fact the smaller units of local self-government that are particularly threatened by this law, because all that is now imposed on them when you have of course small fiscal incomes it is very, very difficult to do. But what I still want to say here is what a paradox really is, that we who deal with local self-government, and here we said that this local self-government is about 60% of the municipal activities, that we now don't know which jobs are under municipal activity and that we have to ask the minister for it. I mean, I don't really know who's crazy around here? I really don't know who's crazy around here? The second thing, you said that, a release from municipal compensation and a communal contribution. So watch if you're not in the vicinity of the highway, near some big city, it's the only instrument you have in your hands as a unit of local self-government that can attract certain investors into an entrepreneurial zone. The only instrument. And now we, with a bill like this, are abolishing it here. I really don't get it. Because even when we had a debate here on real estate tax, I remember asking that same question to Minister Marić and then he answered me – we will not find an instrument to keep that exemption from paying the municipal fee, the communal contribution or the real estate tax that we should have introduced. I'm just here, so there's something in the law and that's it, that's it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70195	Thank you. Next up, he's a colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70196	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Vesligai, therefore, when you speak in your debate about municipal directors and article 113, then it seems to me that we see everything to say, the weakness of this law. He acts primarily as a gnawed bone because some, most of the communal activities that are now subject to other laws, especially these three laws that the promoter has imposed. And then that bone wraps up in that foil to make it look a little more attractive. I mean, what's defined in Article 113 is inconclusive. This communal director of that power, although the promoter said it was wanted by local self-government units. And now what they should do is not defined, what they won't be able to do is defined by law. Because you mentioned some, most of those laws. You didn't mention the Law on Agricultural Land, which we'll probably vote on in this House, we won't be voted by the ruling majority. And there's a communal officer, let me put it this picturesquely, if the law was passed that the local self-government unit had to have jets to dust mosquitoes, if someone asked who would drive those planes? Then they'd say communal director, so let's drive, yeah. So it's not a good situation. Are we going to fix any amendments to this section on the communal directors until the second reading? Now it's hard for me to say, but it's not a good thing because it's not defined as communal directors, that they want me to raise that level of height through the badge and through the suit, is not the solution. The communal director must have the appropriate expertise, the appropriate knowledge, people should then be trained, the education system should be prepared for that, and then ultimately should be adequately paid for. Here's the key to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70197	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70198	Here you go, buddy. Yes, well you mentioned when we adopt something new, then it's the simplest thing to do to the local self-government unit, so if this applies to some kind of community activity, then be the communal director in charge of it. So it's obviously some kind of vertical that we have here when we make laws, regulations, regulations or something. And of course these people are really overworked, that citizens are not happy with how they do, which is logical, because they have so many things in their power. Of course, fewer local units that have small financial incomes can hardly afford to hire more utility directors, hire such as traffic directors, etc. So this is what they now have in their power that it's impossible to perform, and we're still adding some things. So we just have to, I don't have a concrete proposal here now, of course, but we have to figure out which direction we're going to go. Whether or not we're going to go to some sort of municipal redistribution classifying certain services within it, so we're going to have communal directors, communal inspectors and something like that, but that's again piling up red tape again. The citizens will ask the question, who will pay for it? If local units will have enough resources and how much further the state will decentralise financially, then of course they can. Because the fact is that today's municipal services, that citizens are looking for a better and more quality communal service. And I said before, sometimes they're willing to pay more, but then they expect a good and quality favor. Because it all costs, we have to admit the same thing. And better roads cost and cleaning winter service that needs to go out, and more ho other jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70199	Thank you, fellow Vesligaiu. And the last replica of Comrade Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70200	Thank you, Vice President. When you mentioned that this is a way to privatization, you probably thought of JLS-owned companies, I'm afraid it won't be possible if it were a intention like that. It's just that other laws regulate that area, that's one thing. The second thing, you probably meant article 36 here I agree, the vast majority of us, and we'll try to change it. Namely, because the vast majority of these utility companies we're talking about right now are doing certain jobs of public local interest. And it would be good to have those competencies installed in Article 36 in the second reading. It means we're not shutting down what's working so far. However, the fact is that certain activities were mentioned by the undertaker's activities, which I believe was in 2014, completely eliminated by the municipal law. The municipal law has been cut down for the last ten years very intensely. However, this does not mean how certain public service activity is for citizens who do not have it in the communal activity that it is not in the self-rule and jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. I obviously conclude that the vast majority of us identify that, that's the difference. It remains the jurisdiction and responsibility of JLS for the chimney, for the deratiation. But it's done by other laws. It would be ideal, but it's impossible to put everything under one law. Then you'd be asking what's before chicken or egg, what's chicken and what's egg?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70201	Thank you. The reply to the replica, my fellow Squishy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70202	Here, thank you. When I was talking about privatization, I was thinking about a trend that comes through this law. Yes, and I was thinking specifically about this law on Article 36(3). Look, I don't mind doing and, of course, the private sector doing certain services it's doing now and the public sector. Let him do them. But then let's give one fair game of competition where everyone will have their chance. And we don't, unfortunately, make it possible to do that, because if we move the market, and you've now agreed to this, if we remove these market economic activities outside the utility, then they can't participate anymore, so in that competition. They are left with only those utility services that local self-government units will trust. And that's the point. It's the most important problem of this law with all these illogicalities that exist inside, which we have here today, so through the debate we've searched for a dozen times through debates, through replicas, and I don't know what not. It's the same case with the mortuary activity. Likewise. Is this where we're going to start a special chimney company, especially for funeral activities? Aren't we going to go and start special construction companies that will then do some small construction work, and we all have them in our cities and municipalities. They do some things I don't know how to dig up when it comes to water supplies or something. Is that what we're going to do? Are we going to restrict the market activity of a utility company to own a quarry? So they sell stone on the market? They sell it on the market. They are often more expensive than the private sector, because they have some kind of labour rights because of collective agreements, because of various things much bigger and cannot be so competitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70203	Thank you, Mr. Vesligai. We're done with the replicas. Next on behalf of the HNS club, Comrade Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70204	Thank you, Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. This debate confirms what I've been through several times and in previous conferences I've said is good, though it has been. I don't know what I said and what my colleague Bulj is already picking up, but okay, we'll see later. What I've said many times is that it's good that in this session, although other opinions have been good at a large number of relatively well-represented people, our colleagues and colleagues who are either still active or have been in local or regional self-government. In fact, this municipal law also believes that the reactions that arise and emotions that can be read that the result of a large number of dissatisfactions accumulated is precisely because the Law on the Communist Economy has been cut down for many years. In practice, not so much has been taken out of it for reasons of the competence of JLS. Because we say the Law on Units of Local Self-Government remains that responsibility, however, the way in which certain activities and activities are carried out. As I was saying, Article 37 is disputed simply for what reasons. It is slow for reasons, it is good on one side to satisfy the elements of competition and not to put in an unfavourable position certain entities, but to just one even and even match. On the other hand, knowing the situation in the vast majority of local self-government units, and especially the smaller environments, I don't mean large cities over 100,000 inhabitants where it shouldn't be felt at all in conduct and in practice. However, in much smaller environments this can cause and let's say some stages of restructuring of municipal companies, reregistering, until registration, and perhaps even firing a certain number of employees now. For this very reason, I believe that the Secretary of State will also respect certain proposals and remarks. And why exactly the vast majority of these companies today other than communal businesses, road maintenance, winter service, maintenance of public green areas. What's he doing? Take care of the junk. So, it provides a public service to take care of waste collection. It's a public activity. She came out of the Law on the Communist Economy, the activity went out. But it did not cease to be in jurisdiction as a self-rule unit of local self-government. Let us consider whether that part may be incorporated into Article 36(3). Water supply and disposal, we all know very well who doesn't know what year it was, I have here exactly as much as I can think of. We had to separate water supply and disposal from our businesses also in private companies that are still not available today I do not understand why they should not have their own construction operation but technical staff, technical sector in most of perhaps for some small repairs and, of course, they are the owners of local self-government units and they are not in the municipal law. Yes, we've passed that law all together, which is now being criticised. Then the last Law on Construction Inspection was laid down by business, which means we had to have the communal director do certain work under that law in that part of the local self - government. Well, according to that analogy, this Law on Construction Inspection should also be part of the municipal law. So that's where we have to make a certain difference in that, and it just really came down to the Community Economy Act to what it would have said to the economy's core bussiness in most of that field section of the local self-government unit. I believe that there is room for this article to be fixed and I believe that by the next time we read it, we will receive both correct and corrected and nomotechnically regulated proposal of this law. I'll try a few examples of what causes certain dilemmas. Article 82 of the municipal contribution, in fact Article 81 of the Liberation. Yeah, why don't I set the question free. But we must also be aware of the fact that we must compensate this contribution to the budget from tax revenues, but respecting competition if that release does not affect competition, that is to say, to benefit one entrepreneur, one group of entrepreneurs, and not others. I would leave that on the responsibility of the local self-government unit on these terms, as well as the communal compensation. I personally don't have a problem with that, because it's a means of purpose, and we're aware that we need to get those funds back. If you freed someone from a community contribution under a special programme, you had to secure those funds for building municipal infrastructure from the incomes of others. We know very well how to project the budget. Public infrastructure building programme from which the Budget Act is funded, etc. Now, Article 82 of the municipal contribution is not paid for construction, so there is that. And now point 5 for solar collectors, photovoltaic model on the building particle of existing buildings or on existing buildings. Well, that's where she caused one dilemma, one doubt. I personally am, because it is the intensity and renewable energy sources and the promotion of the development of expansion, that on the roofs of buildings whether family houses, residential, business facilities do not pay for it. But if it's done in the agricultural, excuse the construction area of a hectare, two, three photovoltaic panels and why not pay? Why don't you pay? Is that what I'm asking you? So that's probably where I'd be praying, and it's like I said, but I'd like to make that more clear. Now, the municipal police definitely don't. And as a liberal, not to have anything against our Croatian police, but I appreciate it, I respect it. However, I think it's moderate, measured municipal redistribution. How will it be marked? Well, of course, and now, according to the law, it has to be written by a communal director, by a traffic officer, by an agricultural director, by a card, by a badge or whatever, it has to be legitized. Is all this written in Article 113 authorized to implement? It has been taken over from certain laws that regulate not only the Law on the Communist Economy, but also all other laws on how to act. Now, I've had years of experience like the vast majority of you, so I'm asking the question of what efficiency is based on current powers and the possibilities of municipal orderliness to act, to solve the problem they point to whether in writing, whether in oral terms because they are citizens. In particular, you have this also there in one article defined as regards the municipal order, the regulation of the municipal order, which is the key document for each unit of local self-government, and it is the communal order that acts on that decision on the municipal order. And I think that maybe if there is a space, there should be no overlap, in a decision on the municipal order, or find space to count all the competences of the conduct that communal directors must do on the basis of their powers, but on the basis of all of them. I think it's about 8, maybe even now 10 laws of lex specialists that define jurisdiction under a certain article of that law of the communal director. Now, it has an obligation of Article 113(3) to establish a breach of the law, etc. It is obliged to monitor, have the right and obligation to submit an indictment or criminal application. I'd suggest it's fixed. It's not him. It's the administrative body of the communal order. It'll be much simpler, more quality since it's both a felony warrant and a criminal application. I think it will be easier to act and spend than to personally give it as such. It's one of the nomotechnical remarks that should actually be, even if it means essentially, big problems. My colleagues and colleagues, the HNS Club will support this bill simply because it is the product of what this House has been doing for the past 10 years. Not to list a series of laws, we all know very well, and we are also available and simply whether it could have been kept inside of the communal activity, whether it wasn't, I believe that from the debate it would be looked at, seen, and I believe that no one would mind, and of course it doesn't mind the ministry to fit in. But we must ask ourselves what it means to us, if you do not have a direct influence on the implementation of what is written in your law? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. There was a comparison with the police, I don't know what your experiences are. The fact is that as far as the communal order is concerned and what is in the jurisdiction of municipal order in the vast, large majority of cities and large, the vast majority of the population is positively considering. And we don't have those, there's a very small number of those who break the communal order, who break existing laws as a percentage, but if they're not sanctioned in some way, then they give a very different and bad picture. And one more thing, as far as communal directors are concerned, looking at the laws they all have to follow, there have been some attempts, I don't know if I'm wrong, or maybe there was an executor, isn't it possible to think that in some way a manual should be printed for the communal directors? These are the people who have the SSS that have the technical, the high school can be even five degrees, because obviously as we continue to bring it down, decentralize local self-government with non-responsibilities but with jobs, and in part with competencies, I'm afraid we'll have to further educate them every year as some new law is passed. One last thing, the same thing here was talking about it, one suggestion. It's simply a communal fee on construction land that's under the law of basic, basic law since 2005, so it's not a newspaper. And we're chasing taxes and fees, the municipal law doesn't prescribe taxes even though giving is a different status, but the suggestion is to think about, I don't know who's charging in Croatia because it's very difficult, very difficult and questionable if there's a dispute, I believe that the prosecutor would have a dispute in nature. Throw it out. Just for what reason? Simply because if we want to tax, whether it's a local tax or something, then we have to go back a little bit into the essence of things, these are spatial plans or redefine not to write unbuilt building land, we have arranged building land and not arranged. I can be like some kind of stimulative measure where building land is arranged and that in some ways the coefficient of 0.05 to be charged, to be stimulated for construction or for placing on the market, however this definition is an undeveloped notion that it might be. Here are just some of the remarks, we will deliver in writing some suggestions, our reflections, and I believe if they are respected as they were said, and I believe that they will respect that this law will receive the support of the vast majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70205	Thank you, fellow Batinić. We have exactly ten replicas on his exhibit. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70206	Thank you very much. Here I have heard carefully and waited on behalf of the club... where Mr. Batinić says so here I don't think I know if this ministry is run by Mr. Stromar or if he showed you this law he wrote. Do I not know how to explain to the leaders of the local self-government units Article 22(2), where I repeat again in paragraph 1, the maintenance of unclassified roads has been mentioned so far. However, Article 2 maintenance and parts of public roads passing through settlements means county and local, and we see that the counties are in a huge problem how much they are employed in... in development... people that we will now have to pay for the penals to set up a fund on Mr. Cacic's proposal. We have article 24, too, no water supply and disposal activity is listed anywhere, and mostly water supplies, will you privatise that too? Is this a step towards privatisation? That's what you weren't showing yourself about, and there was a debate. Article 4 you have communicated about building land, but this article on municipal directors, of course, that the law on lex sheriff we now have at the moment people who literally can't do anything anymore, now it's in the Constitutional Court, the city of Vrgorac filed a constitutional suit. I think the local sheriffs with this have about 600 local self-government, now we're going to have 600 sovereign territorialally restricted units with our own police force. Now that we've given the sheriff's authority, we're still giving them powers of course to the police. Good in smaller places where you fight 200, 300 people as much as my place...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70207	My friend Bulj, thank you. Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70208	Thank you very much. In a short replica of my colleague Bulj, you've replicated the entire law. It's really good for you. As for Article 22(2), maintaining parts of public roads, you are ten years late with a replica, it is in a basic law that is already in force I don't know how many years, public roads right, read back and see. In basic municipal law, it also stands for you, which does not mean in practice. I'd like to be cited by the head of the local self-government who had to do something about it. So it provides maintenance and utility infrastructure, maintenance of parts of public roads passing through settlements. Come on, give me who had to do it and the Croatian roads didn't actually sue back, but it's in the law of the last 10, 15 years since '95, so you're late for your colleague Bulj with that. As far as privatisation is concerned, I can't tell you because I haven't been able to read anywhere. And I said in the replica and my colleague Vesligaj that there's no privatization about it, it's simply the only privatisation, you're right, which was it in the Varazdin parks where it went from public to private, with the city keeping 53% of the property. So like this, I don't know any other example of your colleague Dolnjak knows best because he was either part of it or he was very close when it was privatized, so there's far more information about how it went, and I now don't know the laws by which such companies could be privatized. It means shooting an empty fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70209	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, please. A colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70210	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj and my colleague Batinić can take care of this at some time. Mr Batinić, in the debate on the law, you spoke about what came out of the law, when it came out and under what conditions, I will only open the subject which was a replica in the provision of Article 94(4) is defined as being considered an unbuilt building land, and then I suppose there will be no dilemma, but in the debate I will talk a little bit more about it. But now I want to talk about something else. Not long ago in this assembly there was a debate about local taxes when it was an interest to introduce a tax on real estate. And then in that debate we talked a lot about what the reasons were, why we shouldn't introduce real estate taxes and here we were lucky that Minister Maric recognized it and that we don't have real estate taxes and that we don't really scare our citizens anymore. When there was a debate, you too had a lot of discussion and the basis of your debate in the Law on Local Taxes entered the provision of Article 65 in the Law on Local Taxes, NN No. 115/2016, which said that no real estate tax would be paid for all those properties which were exempt from municipal compensation in terms of their investment in the municipal contribution. And as head of the local self-government unit, I absolutely understood what you were talking about, and we all supported it. Now it's my question, why isn't it in this law? So this law was and in the debate at the clubs you got the opportunity to argue, it was in a public debate, what happened in this law that didn't need it? Not so long ago in the end of 2016 in the Law on Local Taxes we put it in the Law on Local Taxes we said don't do this crazy thing, that here at the beginning of 2018 there is no word in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70211	Thank you, colleague. Replication response, please welcome fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70212	Comrade Taritash, we're talking about two different laws and these are different dimensions. You're talking about tax policy, these are fees. The communal tax policy fee has absolutely nothing, although I agree to go out of the same pocket, but it doesn't matter, so it's defined by other things entirely. As far as I'm concerned, to be honest, I didn't understand whether you mentioned a communal fee or a communal contribution. So the communal fee is known for what is being paid, and you know it too well because you were also involved in this law, so he couldn't enter the procedure for a long time because it wasn't simple. The second thing, we know the communal contribution for what is paid and what can be financed from it. So the municipal infrastructure maintenance programme at the annual level is an assumption that it would determine the annual value of the points for the next year for the municipal infrastructure maintenance programme. The communal contribution is prescribed under the law and... there is no difference than there has been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70213	Thank you. Comrade Giovanni Sponza, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70214	Thank you, Vice President. Here is a respected colleague, Batinić, in your discussion you referred to the provisions of the law, in particular Article 36, which you stressed the need to complete. I would personally say that it needs to be changed conceptually, and in order to come up with the necessary quality solution and the revision of Article 36, we need to get an answer that has already been set up several times in the debate today, and it refers to the argument of the legislator himself of this law that Article 36 argues by harmonising with EU legislation. So we really need to get a concrete response from the promoter, which specifically prohibits companies from carrying out municipal and economic activity because it then gives us a much wider option. In fact, we have always gone under the exception of the harmonisation of the European Directive, imposing ourselves additional restrictions which later in the implementation have proved to be a limiting, limiting and difficult factor. So I'm asking for your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70215	Thank you, colleagues. Replication response, please welcome fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70216	Thank you. A colleague of Sponza, meaning in recital 3 itself, writes except for the question blah, blah, etc. It is necessary to comply with the Public Procurement Act, which is in line with Directive 2014/24 of the European Parliament. So it's about harmonising part of the law with the Public Procurement Act, and we know whose jurisdiction the Public Procurement Act is. So it's not the reason, there's primarily and partly the Public Procurement Act, but it's also the protection of competition. What was my thinking was, not just mine, but everyone we discussed here independently, because in the self-rule of the local self-government unit, a number of other public affairs, the activity is carried out by public interest. So I mentioned, say, waste management, water supply, draining, deratiation, so I don't know, what else, which is in our jurisdiction, but not based on this law. And whether my thinking went well or not, I don't know if I'm going to say it by amendment, I believe it's going to be appreciated, for example. For example, in order to be able to read in my opinion Article 3 of the Trade Society, paragraph 3 of the apology, Article 36 of the Trade Company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and other public activities of local importance. And after that, it cannot carry out another market activity at the same time. This is a public proposal, here, that's thinking, which I believe comes from the discussion of everyone we've talked about this article like this. And it will not violate the Law on Public Procurement, it will not be against the law, it will not be against the competition. I believe the Proposer will respect him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70217	Thank you, fellow Batinić, next replica, colleague Škorić, and behind him, colleague Sincic. Here's your colleague, Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70218	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Batinic. There is much to be said in this law, but much can be objected to and well that it is the first reading. You, in your address, pointed out above all the satisfaction of the elements of the competition, which is what Europe is looking for, however, the restriction, therefore, that municipal societies can only deal with municipal activity, so a number of other elements are being opened, both operational, organisational, but also numerous and economic and social problems, so that even in this context it is necessary to look at the amendments to this law. This can therefore be said, from the prism of a few companies that, along with their basic activities, perform some other elements of a complete service, therefore, in one place, and refer to transport, sale, funeral equipment, flowering, cuneiform services. So, because of all of this, I represent, I come from Split, practically see how our funeral society works in the city of Split and relations with private people and with prisms of all the problems that can arise. I suggest that, basically, the Law on burial activity doesn't put itself out of effect, because it would create a number of problems. So you mentioned Art. 36. Paragraph 3, therefore, this introductory part, could also be made a compromise, therefore, that the companies, which carry out the entrusted municipal activity, as the basic activity for which they are registered, should, with it, be allowed to carry out other economic activities, which are closely linked to other activities. In this way it would be one stage of adaptation and enabling and competition, but also on the other... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70219	Thank you. Replication response, Comrade Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70220	My colleague Škorić, these are simply life stories and the fact why I specifically mentioned them as thinking of local importance, because there is no universal current activity status for certain companies to do the same. Some may not be doing waste management, may be doing other public activity, which is of local importance, for all citizens of local self - government. And I think that such specificities, as much as possible, as much as they can be brought into line with other laws, I believe they will be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70221	Thank you. A colleague named Sincic, after him, a colleague named Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70222	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Batinić, here, although this law does not deal with the many water supplies you have spoken of yourself, would mention a related problem, which existed in some of his predecessors, and would like to say that some of the principles mentioned here can be a dead letter on paper. Namely, there was one principle, by which activities were carried out, so to ensure, lasting and quality, the performance of municipal activities. In this, by law, we have in Art. 4. principles such as protection of public interest, continuity of carrying out municipal activities, protection of endangered categories of citizens. And if you look at the explanation of these principles, for example, the principle of continuity of carrying out municipal activities, it simply states that a continuous supply of municipal services must be achieved. And the only exception is referred to in Article 32. who only talks about the strike. Despite these principles and principles that were in previous laws, we have cases of exclusion of people from the water network. Despite the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2007 in the case of one of the other representatives of the tenants against the communists from Opatija, when the Constitutional Court decided several things. He has decreed that, therefore, by taking, or removing the waterbenders, you cannot physically force yourself to charge water costs. The second thing, the article, which speaks therefore, about the procedure, despite the fact that such a decision of the Constitutional Court, despite the Constitutional Court, has concluded that only in judicial and executive proceedings can be charged for the water delivered. We have in practice today, that, for example, in the City of Zagreb, you have such cases, people dig up, because they have no place to pay for electricity, or, in this case, water and other things. So let me ask you about your town Ivanec. What is your practice... [[Thank you, finish your thought.]] Water. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70223	Answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70224	I don't know about other cases, but I do know that the code in the town of Ivanac is neither electricity nor water, nor any other connection to the municipal infrastructure based on non-payment. In fact, there are other mechanisms, every unit of local self-government, if anyone can't pay, there's a social programme, that in some way, based on the Social Care Act, they get rid of it. If there's a problem with not paying for electricity, every citizen knows he can check into town, see how, how we can help him. However, if there is, I did not know about such a case, what was in the jurisdiction of the municipal company by and not by the difolt I am the president of the assembly, as mayor that someone deliberately unplugged the water for non-payment, not because I personally consider it a constitutional principle that if we can't guarantee the right to water for everyone, then I'm afraid that we're a little stuck as a society. No, no one's unbuttoned or excavated in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70225	If no one's going to ask John why you're saying this, then he's going to continue his colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70226	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, although there are no colleagues in Batinić I replicate to him, and since we are very replicating each other here, we also speak for the sake of the Croatian public, I will only say a few sentences. It seems to me that this law has ambitions to be more than objectively possible. And so I also see the context of Article 36(3) when it says that the person performing the municipal activity cannot do other economic activities. Look, local self-government units can always start a company, they can always deal with commercial activities. And there's a question now, if it's really intent and a directive to protect competition, it's not going to be done by this law. Again, if such companies or business entities are set up to do certain activities, which we can consider, and in 2015 it was in Virovitica that a group of entrepreneurs made an initiative to protect competition, where they reported to county and city firms that they were simply unfair competition. Because here's an example. The entrepreneur is told if you want to work more for the city and the county come to the catering facility that we started. It's those stories, those nice things that this law won't solve. That's what other laws are supposed to do. The intention is good, I'm just afraid that those who do business honestly will make things difficult for them, and those who intend to continue hunting in a blur so I can express myself to them will still be possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70227	Thank you. Do you want to do this after your colleague Batinić is gone? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70228	There is no fellow Batinić here, but he has set up one very important thing, and there is no pronoun here, something everyone has embarked on or this break has completely disrupted the concept of the session, but he has found one important thing about the communal directors. We have not been able to discuss the subject much, and it is also very important that these provisions of law that have been put in place now provide for the extremely large inspectorial powers of the communal directors, even until criminal charges are filed. I don't know why the proposer installed those provisions in the bill and why, but when it comes to the implementation of the municipal order, which is a decision where communal directors conduct the municipal order of the local self-government unit, it is about criminal sanctions and criminal provisions and can file criminal charges, not criminal charges. And for the legislator, you have a provision in the proposal that allows the communal director to enter gardens, courtyards and other buildings that might be searched. So you're kind of giving him a chance to get into houses, into cities to search space. Something like that is against the Constitution, you must absolutely reject it from the bill, no entry of the communal director into space or any building. The constitution has broken down a completely different procedure and we know the constitutional principle that home is invulnerable and how and who and with what court order can enter someone's home. So this thing with the other buildings and everything else you have to throw out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70229	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Tulio Demetlika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, there are no colleagues, Batinic, but here's a proposaler's representative. I would just like to look back on the part where counterpart Batinic said that we are criticising the passed and voted laws in this House. We do not criticise but simply want to warn and prevent new mistakes or repeat errors we want to reduce the damage and be more efficient, rational and economical to provide services to our citizens. Why am I saying that? Mr Batinic, who I welcome to enter, said that we are former or current mayors and mayors, are just operatives who are implementing these laws on the ground, i.e. in the areas of our local self-government. And now that we're operatives, then I'm going to say, according to the Water Act, we've defined that the drain must be separated from the utility and attached to the plumbing. And what did we get? Where we were more rational, that drain was attached to some water line, but where it wasn't possible, we got new companies, new companies that deal exclusively with the drain, so we got a more expensive system. Today, I will repeat Article 36 again to make it clear to all "the trading company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity", while the provisions of Articles 22 and 24 define the communal activities that the company will do at the same time. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today we have a communal company that's doing all this, a short time, but I'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70231	Thank you. The next replica is counterpart Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70232	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Batinić, listening to the debate today of fellow mayors and mayors and I see that they do not agree with anything that is actually with most of the things that have been passed, I personally think that this law has not been completed and that these mayors, the mayors, sit with them secretary of state and others and pass this law and bring it into line with the needs and experiences of the people who work in the field. It's an operational job that is best known to the people who do it. Therefore, it cannot be written from the bench, it must be written from some suggestion from the field and set up such a fine law where everyone will agree and where all the working and dealings will certainly be controlled. So, we talk about the same thing all the time, and we see that no one agrees with that law at least these commissioners, the mayors, so I think it would be a good advice for you to sit down with them and try to settle this problem, because I don't think this is right if everyone says it's not operational and it's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70233	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70234	Thank you. Well, fellow Misic, we disagree with certain parts of the law, not entirely, but for exactly the reason and the debate goes in this direction to give some suggestions, suggestions that it be fixed to work. Why is this law inciting so much debate? Well, of course, because the consequences of bad or not good or not good enough will not only be felt by local self-government leaders, the presidents of the company management who are at the bar, but by the citizens themselves. And that law doesn't have an ideological omen, and that's why it arouses so much interest in us here that we are. Of course, I am convinced of these discussions and these suggestions and these considerations that have been made here that they will be useful in any case and I can agree with you in the part where you say that the law can't be written in the office, yes, but all the laws are written in the office, but it needs to be consulted, it needs to be seen what life is, and I say more that this law has been cut down for the last 10 years more than intensely and a little bit loses the meaning of that law itself and the purpose of why it was adopted as such. I said once on occasion I don't know if in the replica, in the end if we keep it that way, we'll just be left with a decision on communal order, unfortunately. But here, I believe that both the Secretary of State and his associates, the assistants, will respect because these remarks are also the vast majority of the objections that were and were and I think they can be respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70235	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Batinić, I answered the line when you spoke about the communal fee. And now it is very interesting that in principle there is no exemption from paying the municipal fee, and what has intrigued me, in Article 94(2), is defined when the conditions for calculating the municipal fee for business premises have been met. Therefore, there must be some minimum municipal equipment, however, in paragraph 4. when it comes to construction land, there are no conditions. So someone put your meadow through a change of spatial plan into a space being treated like a construction and you have to pay a communal fee, and by acquiring circumstances in one construction area, you don't have a business drive, you don't have to go to that access road, you don't have a complete infrastructure, you don't have water, you have some kind of well, you don't have to pay a communal fee on that space. So it's something that I just don't think is good, no matter what we want to do, bring the unused building land to its purpose, but we're going to come up with a bunch of obligations that people can't pay or don't want to pay and then the execution and the string, a series of other problems. And since I've already touched the utility fees since it's funding the same as the municipal contribution, I don't think it's a good thing that the local self-government units haven't left the possibility to give the possibility to attract certain investors in a particular area, to reduce the municipal contribution not aimed at one but to say in one economic zone, it's a legal support because it's available to all those who want to invest there and I think it might be possible to achieve that possibility. The second thing, if the entrepreneur makes a certain part of the municipal infrastructure, we should leave him with the possibility that the units of local self-government for that quota part should be recognised as a paid municipal contribution and then we can say that we go to the entrepreneurs on hand, and this way just fires them up, we don't go to anyone's hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70237	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70238	Thank you. Well, fellow Shuker, you were probably listening, so my proposal was to try and figure out a way for this part of the obligation to pay a municipal fee on unbuilt building land to simply be abolished because it was not intended. Just what you said, where will the problem arise? When you get the spatial planning documentation, that's the first. Nobody's going to want to base this on his space, I don't know if there's any urban spatial land in the building plan, you say no, no, you delete it to me, I'm not going to pay a communal fee on that. With all due respect. As far as liberating is concerned, I believe it will be appreciated and that it shouldn't be a distraction, that it simply moves away. As for the communal contribution to liberation, the vast majority, namely the current situation, is a large number of local self-government units have certain programmes. Whether it's a business industrial zone programme, encouraging investment where they have the benefit. So what happens now? If we prescribe that he can't be released, I'm afraid, you have no idea yet, or you've been released for five years or seven years from investment, or you've got what we're doing, we're giving you 10 years to pay through municipal equipment. Now we're gonna say, hey, the law's been passed, you've got to figure it out for the next five years, in five years of those you haven't paid. We're being irresponsible, insecure. So the topic to think about should be respected by the current state. I believe there's a way, just as there's the release of municipal compensation, by special regulations, yes. But it has to be known and it has to be passed on to the representative body. I mean, I believe, they were all constructive proposals, justified, for a reason, and I believe they'll be appreciated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70239	Thank you, fellow Batinić. This was also the last replica, and we're continuing with the representatives' clubs. In front of the Club of Representatives Glass and HSU, colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70240	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us the Law on the Communist Economy. The man in life says a lot of things and then denies it. One of the things I said deep down, I said the next. When I left the ministry after which I worked for many years, I won't allow myself and I won't do it to criticize this ministry from this pay phone, these are my colleagues, I know how hard they are, how hard and everything, so I'm going to say something good about this law. It's good that after '95. Here in 2018 we have the law, it's good that it's systemised and it's good that things are in one place, but my God, what did you do to do this this way? I'm the happiest when I can commend the work of the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning and I'm so sad when I have to say things that aren't good here. And these things just aren't good. In this assembly are former mayors, mayors, current mayors and mayors, some future and some who wanted to be so they failed and let's listen to them, listen to the association of municipalities and cities that they say because they are in the field and know what the problem is. I'm going to try to systematicize this problem in a few groups as long as it allows me time. First of all, it's a '95 law. The poor experienced many changes, and some others experienced a lot of changes from it, and from some other law they made provision for them when something was wrong with them. The last thing that's broken under that law is about the waste system and the waste and waste management law and not knowing what or how. But this law is very interesting. Here I think colleague Bačić mentioned that he is in the hierarchy of the law when it comes to the activities of units of local self-government, municipalities and cities of the third-largest hierarchy. I'd say that I'd kind of be that one of my never-space planners, always thinking like that, I'd say it different. And someone who will someday do some scientific work will be able to see through the changes to the law how the policy of relations with space, the policy of managing municipalities and cities has changed. The time has come to think of it differently. Let's think about the role of mayors and mayors that they are managers who need to manage their municipalities and cities, who need to manage to facilitate the lives of their residents, to provide public service services to make it simpler, to make it cheaper for them, to be available to everyone and to give them the tools to do so. Let's not plant their leg every time we can, and then we'll put the last leg in the door. So let's see where the Council's role is. Let's not turn councilmen into handlifters, let's turn them and them into active participants in the whole process. A series of topics is open in this law. I'm going to try to do things that are in order. One of the topics is that it's open in this law, which is a communal economy, which should be there, which is now in law and what isn't. There's one area of smokemaking. Smokers whose role and importance are extremely important. And then when I asked, it was said to be a favor and that it was defined by the Fire Protection Act. Everyone, new buildings and new chimneys are a team regulated and there won't be any problem, even though the chimneys wanted to take part in a technical review, so we fought a lot over it. What about existing chimneys? How often will they be examined? What happens when the first chimney burns down, or that's an even smaller problem when someone gets hurt. What about that favor? Where did that favor go? My men, put that back. It was the idea of a special tobacco law. He even went and came up with some first reading. He also went to a time when the Law on burial activity went. I'm one of those guys who's been remembering and remembering for a long time, so then I know a lot of things about what's been going on along the way. He disappeared in one of these drawers. And my people are talking about a sensitive problem, it's really something, let's not make it easy to figure out what the problem is to get it back into the law and make it here. It's about cleaning up septic pits. It is the rodents mentioned by the distinguished representative. So it's about a series of things that have to be and that we have to define in this law. Then this law is about how everyone's getting something out, and now this law has said it, so now we can do something like that. Read article 32, and let’s imagine the situation. The city of Zagreb snow. And our mayor hired 1,000 new employees in Zagreb Holding ahead of the elections, because of course 1000 new employees have at least 3 to 4000 votes. And the city, our mayor, is failing to eat snow. Call it extremely important. He says it's not my idea to clean that snow for you at night. And he says you strike and fired. Based on this Article 32 of this Act. And these people say my people, we have the Labour Act, so we're going to run processes by the Labour Act, and then we're going to see how much this is going to cost the city of Zagreb. For me, examples of the city of Zagreb are always the most expensive and absolutely. Therefore, the provision of Article 32 of my people for elemental hygiene is no place in this law and I don't think that's a problem at all. Let's go to the next topic. One topic is the communal fee, the other is the communal contribution. On this point, the provisions of Article 36 of Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure have been said so much. And then when you get here, when you're eighth or ninth club, and you think you've given up a note here early enough, but with Mr. Bull, it's never early enough, then you get yourself into a situation that's already said and I won't repeat what's been said, but I'll open up some other stuff. When we went with the Real estate tax law, we said from this pay phone a number of times my people in Croatia are not ready, we have a communal fee. The communal fee was turned into tax property, so now we've left the communal fee because we stayed, that's giving. However, there is a constitutional court ruling that said that the municipal compensation could not be strictly intended for strict use. The communal fee on that, let's be honest and let's say it all the way. We've had that communal compensation can only be said so simplisticly to follow the street and maintain only certain things and that was a big problem. Where there was a small utility fee if income wasn't a problem, but elsewhere it was because all the mayors, the mayors, spent it differently, so there I think in 2014, 2015 we opened up, said everything they could. Now let's listen to the Constitutional Court and let's not be more popes than popes. She is a budget income and from it will be a good master, a good chief, a good mayor along with her council to spend as it should be spent. And then as I recall, I'm those age-olds that I don't remember maybe what happened today or yesterday, but I remember what happened a few years ago was three, there were three mayors. One from HDZ, one from SDP and one from HNS. They're still three mayors. One's in HDZ, the other's independent, the one's in HNS, I don't know if it's any more, so I wouldn't want to say whether it is or not. One is Crikvenica, the other is Opatija and the third is Malinske. And he said we have a problem, we have a problem with hotels that, for which infrastructure was made, for which roads were made, drains were made. We have to maintain it, it's a burden to us. The case of Malinska, he comes at the end of the year and at the end of the year and at the end of the year pays a minimum communal fee, let's make that something. And then the proposal that was made in the summer of 2015, i.e. in the autumn of 2015, was when it came to tourist facilities that are actually mockery, which are doing damage to that space, that through the instrument of municipal fees not to be released because the infrastructure exists, that infrastructure someone maintains, someone cleans that road, pays that public lighting, must also take care of the water supply and disposal that it, that it is large, that it grows, to force the investor to invest in its real estate and increase the value. Now, that's it, those three mayors must have forgotten on the way somewhere that they thought it or now they think about it, but we're introducing a provision of an article that tells us what a construction plot is, 93, item 4, so it says unbuilt building land can also be where the ruins are, the owner of Halud comes and says Halud's ruins. Is it? It is. And they won't pay that communal fee either, I'll do anything I say because I think it's about two hundred thousand kunas a year, I won't pay for it, I'll pay for it, even less because it'll be a burden on him. I don't know where it got lost along the way, let's talk to the Association of Municipalities and Cities, that's the element where you make someone bring in their real estate, not someone, but know exactly what, for tourism that we all swear is extremely important and exceptional, and that's the branch we need to develop and that, in that space, let's sell your real estate and find an investor who's going to invest something there. The communal contribution, Croatia is on the do list regardless of which, as we do category a, b, c, d, g, 28 or 32 will not progress and will not move on. And that's what the World Bank has told us as long as the municipal contribution is paid before it is paid, or is now paid at the time when you report the beginning of the work. That's where we had to step up, that's where we had to see what we wanted to do with it, that's where we had to see what we wanted to do in this law so we wouldn't damage the municipalities and cities to give them, give them a full budget, but what we wanted to do. Here we are, by this law we have abolished all the exemptions even though I told my colleagues Batinić that the law which had ceased to apply on real estate tax, there it could have been, which was much more restrictive and not here, but through the discussion I think I realized that it would come back. There's a great mayor, I follow his work because he uses a smart city methodology or a smart city. Otherwise, his party that he belongs to in the coalition in power is doing a great job. And that mayor can put a key in the lock if the provisions... This law and it can do to all those investors he called and who he said had the opportunity to help this, I need an investment, I want jobs, I want to do it all together, if that mayor can put the key in the lock and say I was joking, I wanted it because it was one law but now it's not that law, now it's some other law, so I was joking and I changed my mind a little bit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this assembly, no one has the right to really put our mayors and mayors in a position to put the key in a lock and say they were joking a little bit. We all swear on investment, come on, let's make investment possible, let's make investments and let's not bring in the mayors and mayors that at some point really have to say a little joke. Because I have a relatively short time for all of what I want to say is two more things. One thing, poor communal monks. Well, I suggest that when some law comes that communal monks break up marriages because they're not doing it yet. And let's call them supercom because they can do anything. And then we say, they'll have uniforms. Now I'm curious, we have a communal director working in the area of three municipalities. Will he change his clothes as he goes from municipality to municipality, so he'll change because he has to have a uniform? Or will they have a unique uniform so that it will bring the unique attitude of all the municipalities? Let's not do anything crazy. Let's do an analysis of how many communal directors we have, what they're willing to do and leave them with jobs they're willing to do, let's not make up jobs and give them a burden. And for the end, my favorite topic is decentralisation. We all swear to decentralisation, we'll all come here and we'll say that's great, every law that comes, let's do even more centralization or let's make it impossible for the municipalities and cities to do their jobs. And here we told them through the provision of a law that within six months they had to record the municipal infrastructure. I usually think municipalities and cities should register their properties. If you want to manage something, you need to know what you're managing, and I don't have any problem with it, but I have a problem with each other's non-compliance with the rules. So we have the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Cataster and the provision of Article 99.d on the basis of which the Infrastructure Cataster Regulation was adopted in 2017, where it is said who should do who, and then it is said what needs to be done by the administrative body, listen well, unit of local self-government that is in charge of geodetic affairs. I'm interested in all the municipalities and cities, and the mayors and commissioners, how many of these administrative bodies do you have? What is the basis of these administrative bodies? How many do you have? Who's employed? Who's working? Over. [[Intruder Doncic: counterparts Anka Mrak-Taritash...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70241	With discretion I gave you 15 seconds because we worked well together in the government, otherwise no, I'm joking, we sat together, right, an apology. Exposure, we have eight replicas. Comrade Hajduković Domagoj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Taritash, I think you, of course, didn't have enough time, but you have touched a very important topic, which is to smoke and wipe the chimney off the list of communal activities. In fact, smoking is a service activity but smoking and preventive activity is of public interest to the safety of life and protection of the property of citizens. Smoking is the only one of the utility services that can endanger lives and property based on poorly provided services and thus be subject to the Penal Code. In this activity there is no chimney catastra, there is no cadastra storage device. The service will be executed according to this proposal if it is placed on the market, only at the invitation of the users, which is completely unacceptable in view of the number of fires, poisoning in the current regulated system, etc., etc. For us to understand, and the companies involved in the chimney industry and which are concessioning in the area of certain units of local self-government, have no objection to going to the market, but they do not want to go out this suddenly and abruptly because in the Ministry of Economy by whose authority it should be after it comes out of communal activity, they do not want to hear or hear from them until the law is passed. On the other hand, the chimney activity is not regulated at all. So we have no regulation on this by law or regulations or anything else, and it is necessary to regulate what it is that chimney operations are, therefore, the operation of the chimney business, the delivery to the central base or the setting up of a central base, the conditions for the company and the crafts to deal with it, the conditions for determining the area, the methods of selecting chimneys, etc., etc., etc. And yet all we're going to do is bring chaos into the market that can result in both death and the threat of the property of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70243	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. Anka's answer to Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70244	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, that's right, I didn't happen to start by accident that these activities were smokemaking activities. Smokemaking and you have the opportunity to see every little bit not only does some house burn down because the chimney wasn't well maintained but that always happens and death, so when one human life is lost, there's no back and there's nothing that's worth discussing at all. And it's not a problem for new chimneys and it's not a problem for new chimneys, it's always a problem to reflect the old ones. I don't see any reason why it's not in the Law on the Communist Economy. Because that place is there, because it can be there, and that's why I deliberately said that I went to the Legislative Committee very gently and asked why it's not anymore, and I'm also the one who thinks it really needs to be possible and a number of services and a number of topics, but there are some things about human life, which is not the answer to it all together. Therefore, as someone in the debate said, who supported this law in the first reading, that all remarks will be carefully taken into account and that the observations will be taken into account in the law, I think it is absolutely possible to do so. Indeed, at one point it was a desire to be a special law, that law, I had the opportunity to see it, I guess in the impasses of the transition from one government to another government or with that interregnum headed by Mr. Oreshkovic somewhere it got stuck in drawers, it gave up, but I don't see any reason not to be in this law for the simple reason it's good and it's good to be defined there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70245	Thank you. Next is a colleague, Vlaovic, followed by a colleague, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70246	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash, in their opening part of the exhibition, you commended the ministry's employees, and they are doing them well, and the one who is on the roof and who should be here and who is with us is the minister who is unfortunately not there, and you have always praised and said that when such important topics and such important laws, it must be the minister in the assembly and in this way that he is not with us, only shows that he does not care about the citizens or the mayors who today discussed and said that in a certain way and underestimating the representatives and units of local and regional self-government, but in this way the minister is underestimating both our parliamentary representatives and our debates, he thinks it is enough for him to pass the law in the government and that he will pass in the assembly, he hopes that it will not, and I look forward to me that they have discussed it critically under this proposal and representatives of the ruling majority. I believe that we would also be critical if the HDZ minister were but what is important is that the law is experiencing significant changes, to preserve municipal activity and the possibility that units of local self-government are self-managing because who is the minister who knows better the situation on the ground than any of the mayors and mayors, in order to be asked by the council, or before the decision, whether in their midst, in their communal drive, they will also be working on smoking operations or any other economic activity. I don't think it should stay that way and that this is how the HNS is taking care of public policy, public policies, not to the benefit of citizens, but to the detriment of citizens for large capital, and the real question is who the smoker is going to bring happiness, because in our people it's a habit that smoker, if you grab a button, brings happiness, and here the ground is being prepared for some companies, some kind of society, and it's a real question of which smoker will bring happiness.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70247	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70248	You can talk about Minister Štromar, you know that I really take care of the former best. And unlike the fact that every time I'm really with a pay phone, I commend when the minister is here or I try when he's gone, so I say he's gone, he doesn't care, he doesn't care about that law, I didn't do it this time. But there's no secretary of state, there's no assistant minister. Now, is it my fault that I went out for the pay phone and said, or is the reason something else, they know, there's a colleague I've been working with, or I've been working with since '94. Well, he's the only one who closely monitors and records it, but I really think it's the elemental decency to at least be a minister at the opening, to show that he cares, to say what was the intensity, to further understand that he has work to do and that maybe he's gone and not to the end, but at least the elemental decency of someone would be that the secretary of state is there and the assistant, and I think it's also a commitment. Here, they're gone now. Why did they decide that you'll have to ask them when they came. I said how I felt about this Law, and I said that it was incomparably easier for me to praise and when I could say something affirmative, but what I had to ask – I asked: “What was it for you? ” What's the reason? The association of municipalities and cities, i.e. the association of cities with Mr. Turk, was on the board led by fellow Demetlik, made observations, I don't know, on one two or three lists. There are people who have been following that law for years, addressed by the mayors. So listen to them! When you do any law, you do an analysis of the existing state, you see what this law brings new and let's not do a mess where it doesn't belong. If there are common things, let's make it better. If it doesn't exist, let's do something new. But we're not going to do what's right at first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70249	Thank you. The next replica of colleague Petin, followed by colleague Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70250	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, distinguished MPs, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash, you mentioned in your presentation, but you only touched on the management of municipal waste. I know you have a lot to say, that you certainly didn't have time to explain everything, so I'm interested in your opinion now. So, according to government regulations, we all had to make a decision on separate waste collection as units of local self-government. Likewise, our utility companies are preparing and have extremely high costs just to adapt to both the law and the existing regulation. So they either had to go to a chipping bin, buying new programs, so they have big financial investments. And now, according to this bill, no mention of the management of municipal waste is mentioned anywhere in municipal activities. Does this, in your opinion, presently represent, in essence, a cost that is unnecessary for utility companies, because in the end they will not be able to carry out these types of activities under this proposal of the Law? Here, I'm interested in your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70251	Thank you. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70252	Let me get on with it. So let's just take it one step at a time. When I said that there were some things out of this law, something that was carved out was and related to municipal waste, and then the special law defined the provision service, therefore, the provision of municipal waste as a public service and there was a Government Regulation and all units of local self-government were to be adopted and implemented as of 1 February. It is called a decision on how to provide public services, to collect mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste and services that are related to it, and that is the Regulation which is the basis of that Law. Now, in this law, we have some other things in Articles 36 and 37. And everything's fine while it works. At the moment when someone finds themselves and starts a little bit of synchronising one and the other law, so he asks what it is, I don't know how long it will come, so I hope that what we had here through the discussion about Articles 36 and 37 that this debate will bear fruit and that we will define it more clearly, because if we define it more clearly then there won't be this problem here because there will really be a certain problem related to it, the mutual harmonisation of the rules, let's not keep on acting like islands, we each do our own regulation and forget that there are mutual regulations. Who pays for everything in the end? They pay citizens through a service that's more expensive. They're paying citizens through a mess that's happening in space. They pay citizens through the fact that they no longer know how to separate waste, don't separate waste. The waste is really a special topic. I am very happy to talk about the waste, and I was saying that in the context of the waste in the city of Zagreb, you will see what will soon happen in the city of Zagreb when we start collecting plastic bags in the parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70253	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Kleman. After my colleague Kleman, my colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70254	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues here, I'd like to make a little comment on your remarks for the moment of payment of the communal contribution, so in the register of units of local self-government. I think that you are in place, and I think that this should really be a different matter, because Article 88 says that the solution and paragraph 1 of this article will be passed by the power of the building permit. You know that with larger investments, only the adoption of a building permit can take a year, two and three until the start of construction, and that is why construction must begin within 3 years, as various problems are expected on the way to the very beginning of construction. If it is a larger investment, the calculation of the municipal contribution can be very large. You know, for that reason, banks and business grandmothers, but HBOR has been included in their programme of financing the municipal contribution, because it is not easy for an investor to find funds to pay for a municipal contribution. For this reason, I think that this article should define that payment of the municipal contribution is in line with the start of the construction, i.e. the construction of the facility, because in any case it will release additional costs and additional procedures in the investors' banks themselves, thereby increasing the possibility of investing in units of local self-government, and also showing what it seems to me is trying to turn this government towards investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70255	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70256	Thank you very much. My colleague Kliman, with today's decision in the Construction Act, speaks before, so at the moment the application begins, you have to have proof that you solved it by the basis of the contract you made. Now, it's a very sensitive subject. Let's face it, it's a sensitive subject. The mayors and mayors love that, in fact, that the municipal contribution is paid, because it's some serious figure, and that's how they get into the budget. But those who think a little further say, so we don't need every investor to want to start with that he's gone, we're much more interested that he's lying, that he does it, that it works, that he hires workers because it's our safety that he'll be permanent. And now Croatia has indeed, and when you explain to someone that we have both a municipal fee and a communal contribution, it takes a little while to explain to him what a municipal fee is, that the municipal real estate fee that is made because of what exists is important for the maintenance, construction of municipal infrastructure and that the municipal contribution to make a municipal infrastructure is so little more difficult for investors to explain. But let's be, let's not be smarter than everyone in the world right now. The World Bank, when it assesses us, tells us that you will not advance on the scale of doing business what we all characterise how much a country is desirable for investment until you define and solve the problem of municipal contribution. And compares us with Hungary and says, in Hungary, a building permit is usually seen for a production hall, costs, I say now, understand that I do not have all the data but I will lie, cost 50 euros and costs in Croatia 50 thousand euros. And when we say but it doesn't cost, it says cost because it's in that communal contribution. So it's about a sensitive subject. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70257	Here's my colleague Peric, after which, my colleague Juric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here you have mentioned Mrs. Mrak-Taritash in one segment and tourist capacities and their importance, the difference between this proposed law and the previous one is great. So in previous years, all tourist facilities, camps, hotels, apartment settlements paid 1.5% of total income compared to the previous year, it was a communal fee. Now, according to the new bill, this is left out, so we should pay by area, which will be a significant cost for tourists, i.e. owners of these facilities. Now the question is whether we want to punish this activity or whether we want it to continue to work properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70259	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70260	Your colleague Peric, compared to what we want you to have to decide and you are, your club president said that you will support the law and then it is a clear provision that is. But I was discussing something else. So we have the fact that we have, I deliberately mentioned 3 cities of Crikvenica, Malinska and abbey, and I talked about the tourist capacities and hotels that someone has, I deliberately mentioned because they were HDZ, SDP and HNS with the fact that I am sure that HDZ continues for these two I am sure that one is independent and for this third I am not. It's about tourist capacities, they used space, they're in space. There the municipality and the city must maintain the road, they must maintain public lighting and this is a terrible burden in space. And now, instead of telling my people you're a burden, you can bring it in on purpose, if you're not capable of selling, someone will find an interest. We've seen our results, our tourist season we're rewarding him because the way he defined undeveloped building land, it takes a second for the owner of Haludov to say it's a ruin. There is a provision for you that construction land is not built and that on which is the ruins. My hotel Tamaris, the Palace, and what's already a wreck, and I'm gonna pay even less for it than I pay now and I'm gonna make fun of you and I'm gonna laugh in your face. Commissioners and mayors don't let anyone really tell you, look at the laws you're making, don't pass the laws that encourage investment, which allows you to invest, but we'll laugh in your face, too, don't let that happen. Here I am praying as someone who deals with space, I know what space is, once a building is a devastation in space, let's take a step, everything we're saying is already written, everything is already, so we need to make an effort to get in another reading decent law, I would be the happiest to praise it from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70261	Thank you very much Mrs. Dark-Taritash, thank you. The next replica of Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70262	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, in his presentation, here is the answer to this replica you refer to paying the municipal fee to the unbuilt building land and that, in fact, should be the reason why the owner put it, activated that property. When it comes to the cases you have discussed here I would agree with you and indeed all those who have bought or in any way acquired such a property that is most often in a very attractive place and does not contribute to the development of units of local self-government where they are, there is certainly that observation of yours and stands. However, let us not forget that there are many of our citizens, especially the elderly population, pensioners and those who are not able to activate their real estate that are owners of the property on which there is some kind of ruinous facility and under this law should pay a municipal fee. These are usually land or objects that are inherited and that our citizens want to leave to their children tomorrow, and at this point they are unable to build. A communal fee for one such facility would be a great burden on the home budget of our citizens or would force them to sell it to a foreigner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70264	We didn't understand each other. I was talking about strictly isolated cases when it comes to tourist facilities that were in function and not in function. And I can absolutely agree with you when it comes to construction land. This we had some judgments of the Constitutional Court that they were saying, we had here recently in the debate of the Agricultural Land Act which said that when the construction land of agricultural use was not built, it could be put into another function. Let's not do crazy things, it doesn't work in nature. So let's see what's working in nature and we know today that there's one last piece of local self-government that doesn't even collect a communal fee. There's a communal fee zero, they don't give away solutions, they don't collect a communal fee. As I do, you can get information in other municipalities and cities. Why are we doing this crazy thing? Let's see what's good, leave it by, what we want to improve, improve, and not everyone has a law carved into stone and say that something is perfect. I've been talking to the hotel on purpose, so this one in Malinska is really going to pay for something that's negligible today, pays in the end, never gets in the business of execution, and these are crazy because there's nothing I can do about it. I understand they're crazy because then when you go into the spatial plan, the spatial plan says no planning of new tourist facilities, realize these, while this is realised you can have a new one. So that's where we tie their hands, which we absolutely understand. Therefore, the communal fee is also a very sensitive category. Let's take the time to at least clean it up the way we need to. My people, in order for any new regulations to be passed, we need to know what we have, how we manage, an analysis of the current situation, let's finally clean up and record.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70265	Thank you. Mr. Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70266	Thank you. Dear colleagues of Anka Dark-Taritash. In these performances, we always stress that the intensity of our contribution to the debate is to obtain a decent regulation in the finals. I'll be free to say that we in this House have hyperproduction laws. Do colleagues and colleagues really need to be based solely on the number of legal regulations that we are considering and adopting? When it comes to amending the law every law so should this one have its very clear goals, it should be very clear in its provisions. Comments on the law and provisions should be precise, the law must be enforceable and the law must be mutually consistent with the other regulations which touch the points. This law, since I've listed it before, almost absolutely has nothing. Unfortunately, if the conceptual and content of the second reading does not change this law, I do conceptually repeat, then citizens will only pay a higher price again, no benefit from it will be and unfortunately we re-penalize most of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia where we put in indeed an inappropriately subordinated position of the unit of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70267	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70268	The simplest answer fellow Sponzi would be yes. But I need a few sentences, and it really doesn't make sense that at the end of one term or when I say we had so many laws, so we've done so much, and by the way, we have five laws that are already in the debate, which are already once, it has nothing to do with this, but they've already been once, and now we're repeating the first debate, so it's not like it's twice, but it wants to be three times, three times, and it's consistent with another regulation. Every law should be a step forward, every law should be improved and for every law you should always somehow do an analysis of the existing state, see in the existing state what is good to set it up, see what is wrong and when it comes to this law that you listen to? Well, the mayors and mayors, so they have a lot to say there are you who are in a few terms, there are those who like to introduce the police. Imagine how Mr. Bandic would like the introduction of the municipal police, so there are communal police officers in Zagreb, so they dress them up nicely, so I don't know them they have their uniforms, so they go around, so they ask what the OIB is, so your ID card number would love it very much, but my people don't make sense. It's not the point of doing crazy. When the Law on construction inspection and municipal inspection was made, then we asked for records of municipalities and cities as far as we really have municipal directors in the field, then it was 600 and something, with 556 municipalities and cities, and you need to know that in the city of Zagreb there are over 100 of them, it is seriously municipal redistribution. And what a colleague of the Weeleys is when I asked him how many of you have, there's one. There are a lot of communities and cities that share each other, and we gave these poor people extra jobs, and we tied our hands to the mayors and the mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70269	Time, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. We must give our word to Mr. Ant Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70270	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. At the very beginning of your presentation, you said you were accepting what you were in that ministry and that you had no intention of attacking your colleagues at all, but then you said you wanted to pass a law like this. I think given that you have read this introduction you have seen that this Law on the Communist Economy has had 17, 18 amendments, and by some legal standard some law that has three and more amendments should be passed a new law. The law on the municipal economy is a living law, if we look at the formation of units of local administration and self-government throughout that time, there have been a lot of positive things happening and of course there have been some changes. I've already said today it's a hot potato that's been biting, I'm keeping their figurines to last and in this first reading that these remarks that have been heard today are once again with the task force as such discussed and are actually seen and passed in the second reading and a much, much better law, much better proposal of this law. What I expected, you spoke more politically. And given your experience, I expected you to enter the metrics. Well, it may have been too little time, but you've seen today and through this debate when it's some kind of life law, when the law regarding the local self-government unit doesn't have either a secular or ideological colour. That's good. That's good because then you can say the right things and then you specifically apostropheed the decentralisation that I stand for, and I keep saying that in which way the problem should be solved and that the problem should be solved where it occurs, but it may well be repeated in the article in the Constitution, article 135, which actually speaks about what units of local self-government should do, so they are listed from this settlement, housing, spatial and urban planning, health care, schooling, kindergarten, and they should not have been ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70271	Thank you. Answer. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70272	My dear colleague, I absolutely spoke this law I didn't really speak politically, I spoke essentially, I said what were the topics of this law. What do we call local elections? Well, the municipal elections. Why do we call them municipal elections? Because everyone chooses the mayors and mayors he believes will be able to ensure that his roads are fine, that his roads are clear, that he has public lighting, that he has kindergartens, that he has schools, that he has everything else and it's not weird. No wonder this law's gonna be discussing all day. For what reason? Well, because people know what's inside, they know what's holding them back, they know what's wrong with it. And that's why I'm appealing there's an association of cities that's doing a great job. There's an association of municipalities. They analyzed, followed the law, even had their own suggestions. You should listen to them. You know, our biggest flaw is for all of us to listen to the most of ourselves and what another tells us we don't listen. And I've said several times do an analysis, let's see what's a step forward. I have to admit, I'm the happiest one when the Ministry comes in and I work in and I say you did a good job. I'm not happy when I tell my men what's happened to you, where you're going, where you've gone astray. So don't do it, so cut it down. So don't go into any other laws, so define it, so give me some things that are good. So listen to those who have something to tell you. I am sure that after all the days they have spent in this assembly after all the remarks that have been made, after the observations that have been made on all the committees will be taken into account. I have to be honest, too. I trust you somehow most in Mr. Bačić. He's been a minister for a year, he knows what they're talking about. He knows I'm not sure that in his term, the law has been amended, but every year a provision of this law has been changed by will, which I really hope is going to get in the second reading a decent law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70273	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dark-Taritash. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Mrs. Ana-Maria Petin, the club of representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70274	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here are respected MPs and MPs, respected secretary of state, assistant minister of the current Law on the Communist Economy, as has already been said here, experienced a series of amendments, i.e. precisely eighteen in the past 20 years, and it is good that we have one such new law but not in such a proposal as this. I would like to stress immediately that this proposed law does not offer solutions to the communal problem encountered by our units of local self-government on the ground and that the price will be paid again by citizens. I would also like to remind you that the Croatian Peasant Party warned and was against the Real estate law which should also have been a substitute for the municipal fee as the Government also announced, but also at that time we warned that it was not on the hands of the citizens but that they would pay more, and that this introduces a new imposition. We are also warning of this bill and this bill shows one superficial approach and the inconclusiveness of the ministry. This law does not go towards rationalising and reducing the price of municipal services, and unfortunately it does not go towards improving the services provided to its citizens, which should ultimately be our goal. But such a bill is only burdened by units of local self-government and thus by their citizens. Since neither the commissioners nor the mayors who best know the issue of this area are contacted in making such a bill, the question arises whether this law prepares for the privatisation of municipal activities and whether it goes hand in hand to certain groups, or to whom this bill pleases? When we speak specifically of the bill itself, then I will point out the following. First, provisions that prescribe principles of conduct such as the principle of public service, exchanges, benefits, the principle of continuity of the provision of municipal services, and other principles need to be further defined, as this way their application will cause doubt and even complaints from users. In particular, here we are talking about the principle of the 6th or the principle of proportionate benefit because no objective criteria are given to determine the monetary amount, i.e. the municipal contribution which investors are obliged to contribute to the municipal infrastructure. It is all on the arbitration decision of the local self-government unit, which does not create the necessary security for investors, as the rules can be changed at the will of certain municipalities or cities, and at the expense of investors. Such legal and other uncertainty is one of the more important reasons why the lack of investments with which jobs are coming, and there is a reduction in the drain of labourable Croats abroad. This law also abolishes certain municipal activities that have been discussed here today in the Parliament and is subject to competition. Therefore, new companies or concessions are potentially introduced into the market, which can lead to the purchase of services for our citizens because private companies are naturally the first to make profits. It is about funeral services, chimneys and economic activities of the transport and disposal of waste. They have been on the market so far but services could also be provided by utility companies. The new bill makes it impossible. We must, then, firstly make it possible for our small municipalities and cities that so far carried out these activities as part of their utility companies so that they can continue to carry out them. It is therefore necessary to add the following services to Articles 22, 24 and 25. Although we have heard here today in the Parliament and in the debates that the possibility is mentioned that the representative body of the local self-government units may make a decision but, with the previous consent of the minister, also determine other activities considered to be municipal activities, the principle of non-profitism in Article 9 clearly defines that municipal activities are not being carried out to obtain profits but in order to ensure the delivery of municipal services. So this option automatically shuts down and these two things are collapsing. We also think that it would be good to expand the municipal activity to other municipal services such as deratiation, disinsectation, which would ultimately mean lower service prices for our citizens. And as I have already mentioned, communal activities are no longer considered to be water supply to drain or clean up wastewater or transport or disposal or chimneying. However, unlike the drinking water supply, draining and treatment of wastewater now regulated by the Water Act and the disposal of municipal waste regulated by the Sustainable Waste Management Act, smoking is unfortunately not yet a roof law that would be more detailed. We are looking for amendments to the bill of law that would apply to smoking until the adoption of a future law or other legislation that will regulate this profession to certain provisions of the current Law on the Communist Economy. In doing so, we ask that points 24 and 25 of the draft laws that are in the parliamentary procedure be changed in the way I stated in the earlier proposal. In fact, if this is not respected, smoking would remain the only activity without any provision in the laws and regulations of the entire state, which is inadmissible because of the activity and the profession necessary to preserve the security of citizens and property. That is why a specific transitional period should be regulated by a legal solution, in which, until the adoption of an appropriate law or regulation on smoking activities at the country-wide level, it would remain within the scope of municipal activities. Furthermore, when we talk about articles, here is a specific article in Article 43, it is envisaged that the own drive of one municipality or city can carry out municipal activities for another municipality based on a contract between them on whose conclusion the Public Procurement Act applies. The private drive of the local self-government unit is not a legal person and it is not clear that the signing of the contract should precede the whole procurement procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act or that this law applies on the occasion of the conclusion phase of the contract. In the public procurement process, it would not be possible to participate in its own drive as an economic operator and it is not clear how a contract exists between the two units of local self-government. Article 44 provides that a local self-government unit shall establish its own drive by decision of the representative body and in units that have a single administrative department, its own drive may be established as an organisational unit in that department. At that time, the driver of the plant is the head of a single management department, which is already in charge of all the tasks which he has done as head of a single management department, and must also organise and manage the work of his own utility and be responsible for both material and financial operations and for the legality of the operation of his own plant. For all the mayors and mayors who are set up in such a way as to have a unique administrative department, they know what a great job it is for one man who manages almost a whole municipality or a single administrative department. Equally, we have an even bigger problem if one head is shared by two or more municipalities. Articles governing the position of a company established by a unit of local self-government shall state that it may carry out municipal tasks exclusively for the unit of local self-government established by it and which, by decision of its representative body, has determined which municipal activities the company will carry out. Therefore, the company of that type which has legal personality cannot enter the market and its own drive could, according to the proposed one, not a legal person, because no article clearly defines it. Article 60 provides that the previous agreement at the price of the municipal service shall be that it is the mayor or the mayor. In the HSS, we propose that this authority be entrusted to a representative body that, under the new provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, has a significantly less impact on the work of the executive authority and the prices of municipal services can be and are an important thing for the local community. Further to Article 80, the bill did not regulate how the preparation and construction of infrastructure will be financed in areas where it serves a number of different owners of building particles. In fact, it is realistic that all owners will not develop their projects at the same time while the infrastructure is largely needed for the needs of the first facility. This is all put on the burden of weak budgets of local self-government units. Article 88 provides that the solutions on the municipal contribution follow only after the power of the building permit, which may raise the question of the collection of the municipal contribution and thus the implementation of the construction and maintenance programme of the municipal infrastructure. We believe that units of local self-government would be responsible for making public contribution solutions before a building permit at least paying a part if paid in wars. Article 91 may be even more problematic for local self-government units as it provides for the obligation to repay the paid municipal contribution within a period of up to one year, if the building permit ceases to be valid or it is repealed. The units of local self-government do not have to be guilty of suspending or revoking a permit and must return money that they no longer have. The municipalities and cities are working on building plans and maintaining municipal infrastructure and spending their incomes on a communal contribution, which is also their task, without which there is no development of the local community. How he'll repay the funds he's already spent within a year. These units of local self-government can force excessive caution, which can again lead to the investor who has paid the municipal contribution not obtaining the necessary infrastructure in time. Article 94 introduces a tax on small-door real estate, as it is foreseen that the municipal fee is also paid to unbuilt building land. There's also been a lot of debate about this problem here. In this way, the owners of the land will receive a charge that will not pay the land's income but from their incomes from work and other basics. This leads to the debt of poverty to the citizens, who will eventually lose their property, which they have inherited or the only savings. This imposition would make sense that the market lacks real estate, which is not the case at the moment. Article 4 also mentions the payment of the municipal fee to unbuilt building land on which remains of the former building, i.e. ruins or unfinished building are located. This is the only way I remind you of the Homeland War, the situation in Slavonia, and that we still have a lot of ruins, which the owners will now have to pay for communal compensation. Article 113 provides that the communal directors are subject to a number of obligations and duties to be performed. It is not only prescribed by this law, it is also necessary to look at the Animal Protection Act, which was recently adopted on waste management, on construction inspection. Everyone's prescribing a bunch of duties and duties right now to the communal directors. I do not state the obligations of transport and agricultural directors, whose obligations are largely assumed by municipal directors, because local self-government units do not have the means to employ transport and agricultural directors. On the other hand, the Budget Law prescribed a limit, in 20% of the total income that units of local self-government must not exceed for the salaries of their employees, so they do not have the possibility of hiring new people. And in the end, I would just like to conclude, that the proposed Law on the municipal economy contains a series of vague and illogical provisions. As well as those whose application in practice would further complicate, the whole process, the municipal economy, precisely for local self-government units. This proposal also calls into question the survival of existing utility companies, and creates an additional financial cost for local self-government units. There is a risk of an increase in utility prices for our citizens. And because of all the unsaid, it is the Club of Representatives of the HSS that will not support this law in the first reading, and we ask that further changes in the Law be made to the controversial articles and to include the proposals of the HSS, but also concrete suggestions from other clubs, which we have heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70275	Thank you, too. You have 3 and 3, 6 replicas. First replica, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70276	Thank you very much, colleague Petin, in the opening section, for speaking in fact about the participation of dangers and cities at all in the public debate concerning this law. Let's talk about it a little bit and see. So, the law was at public consultation in March 2017 and now we're in January 2018 and what was in public consultation was something else than we have a chance to see today. Then there were different and different provisions and different stories and different ways. I ask you, as the new head of the local self-government unit, did you have a chance, if you were, was there a meeting of the City Association, was there a chance to discuss it? Was there a chance to ask you? Because somehow, it would seem to me to be an elementary courtesy, that those who have and who depend on the law, whose ultimately and successfully suffered will be measured by the basis of how successful and related they are to the management of municipal affairs and the management of municipal activities, whether they all had the opportunity to participate in this whole process at all, because it seems to me that elemental decency, that they should have opportunities. But what we're discussing today and what was in the public debate are still two different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70277	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70278	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Well, I personally must say, I didn't get an invitation to participate in the debate on this proposal for a law on the municipal economy. I know that the association of cities and associations of municipalities certainly made over 500 remarks, but that very few were respected. And that's what surprises me and what I've been talking about. Whatever side of the assembly the mayors or mayors, former or present, are most invited to speak about this particular problem, and at least their proposals are included in this law. It is precisely not correct, because it is the Commissioners who know the problem best and the Commissioners and the mayors who can give the best solution, that this problem in the municipal economy is best managed and that simple solutions are as good as possible and all for the benefit of our citizens. So our goal is to make the communal services the best for our citizens, of course, at the cheapest price. But, unfortunately, here, there was no case and the proposals of the mayors and mayors very little or almost nothing was respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70279	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70280	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Petin, as mayor of Orahovica, I would like to ask you about the municipal fee and the communal contribution. Here, I must point out as the leader who I was in my municipality for 16 years means by the decision of the representative body, or the municipal council, a decision has been made to exempt all persons over 65 and who have fewer incomes than 700 kuna. They brought papers each year, and on this basis we freed the payment of the municipal fee. One example, so this proposal for a new law can no longer be freed and we know in rural areas and Slavonia and Podravina and the Dalmatian Zagora that nursing households live and can no longer free the representative body from paying the communal fee. The communal contribution, I must also give an example that we have released payments per percentage of the municipal contribution to every employee in my municipality by 10% and up to 50%. So these were certain aid measures and new, new entrepreneurs who came forward and also helped relieve the payment of municipal compensation to old people aged 65. This proposal is no longer a possibility. Well, your opinion on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70281	Thank you, too. Mrs. Petin, please. You should only lift the bat before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70282	I did apologize if it was too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70283	So for the future. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70284	Here's my thanks to my colleague, Madero, for the replica. Well, here, look somewhere before we talked about entrepreneurship zones, about encouraging investments, about simple cooperation with entrepreneurs, and how to ensure or attract entrepreneurs to such less developed rural areas as our Slavonia. And now with this bill of law, we no longer have the opportunity to make it easier for local self-government leaders to make it easier not only for entrepreneurs but also for citizens who are in certain problems and who cannot fulfil their obligations. We feel that it is not correct and therefore it falls on the back of our citizens again, and that is exactly what we do not want to happen. That is why we believe that this bill is not good and that there are very, very little things but that ultimately go to the burden of our citizens which should not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70285	Thank you, too. More Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70286	Thank you. Dear colleague Petin, I've come to the replica on the basis of your discussion for two reasons. The first is that you said that this bill does not offer solutions, does not go to the hands of citizens, that citizens will pay more and go to the harm of municipalities and cities. I would add to that and say that organized proactive and efficient municipalities and cities, all have a decision to encourage investment in their entrepreneurship areas. Carefully reading this bill, we see that the unit of local self-government, in particular the representative bodies on which these decisions have been made, no longer have the right to release whether parts or entirely certain user charges. You are the mayor and there is no need to further explain and explain to you how much the leader, along with his associates, must be tortured to allow certain entrepreneurs to invest especially in the new production plant. We, if this provision remains in force, must definitely ask ourselves whether we are a seriously responsible society or if we are an irresponsible and irresponsible state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70287	Thank you. Mrs. Pete's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70288	Here's a thank you for the replica. Well, I can speak specifically about my example now, given that I'm the mayor since last year of the 6th month, and I've been working with my associates on a programme of relief entrepreneurs, of course, with the aim of getting these entrepreneurs into our city and opening new jobs. We have a problem moving the population as well as a large majority in Croatia especially in Slavonia. And with these measures and certain resources that we left in the 2018 budget, we wanted to encourage entrepreneurs to come into our industrial zone and invest. And I can tell you that there were echoes and that entrepreneurs started reporting. And now if a law like this is passed, how am I going to tell the entrepreneurs right now that I just don't have the opportunity to give them any more relief? Turns out we spoke one thing a few months ago and now we're doing something completely different. And what's best and in the budget we managed to secure funds means for a large number of entrepreneurs and the response was good. So here we appeal to the HSS once again that well this law is being re-promised and that simply the specifics to which we appeal to all the mayors and mayors that they are not good to fit and that until the second reading to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70289	Thank you. Next, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70290	Dear colleagues, I don't know if I've been able to read, quote the provisions of the Constitution in any of the laws we've discussed here so many times. So we have an article in the 90s that says nicely that the laws and other regulations of state authorities and bodies that have public authority cannot have feedback. And then in this bill, we have an article in Article 91 of this law that prescribes that 10 years ago we have to return some kind of charged municipal contribution. I think that's a little funny. On the other hand, we had the provisions of the law from before two amendments when there was no possibility of not paying for a municipal contribution before the start of construction, so let's just accept it and pay for it when it started to build because it didn't know it was going to build. And I'm saying something else here. I highlight what it says in the solution to the municipal contribution. So, the local self-government unit, when it prescribes someone to pay for a municipal contribution, must specify exactly what will be done for that money. Now, if he didn't make it a city or a municipality, what he wrote in the solution, then he could, under the applicable law, ask the investor to repay the funds because with his money, it was done in no other way. Here we are now in some illogical situation. You charge, you build it according to your plan, and then you don't know why he gave up after years, you have to pay him back, and you've already spent the money. And it's his fault. There's a lot of things we can talk about here, so if we go through all this, and it's good to discuss it this way, because this definitely can't have party color. This is the life of our citizens, this is a leading unit of local self-government, first and primary contact, from when a child is born to an old man who ends up, unfortunately with some funeral services, all of this is the first step and first contact with cities and municipalities and with employees in these institutions and with municipal enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70291	Thank you, Mr. Claric. Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70292	I fully agree with you colleagues. And it's good that we're talking this way because I can see that we're almost all thinking the same thing. So, we are all in the best interest of developing our environment and improving our citizens. Here, I'm just hoping that, and I'm saying again, that all of our remarks and this whole debate here today will be appreciated and that in the second reading we'll have a much better law than it is here today on our benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70293	Thank you very much. And finally, the last Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70294	Dear colleagues, here we are, despite the fact that we have a lot of objections, but for the sake of the truth, it is necessary to say that the provision for paying the municipal fee for the construction land that was not built existed in the old law, only that in the new law it was extended to two other provisions, which are these auxiliary spaces. So, for construction land, there was the possibility of collecting municipal fees, so almost identical definition that was in the previous law, except that we were not generally using it. Why? Because it was taught by the tax and constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court, where the possibility of tax on unbuilt construction land was disputed, then it was not in this case that the users, i.e. the owners of that land, were cut off the municipal fee. But there was before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70295	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70296	But, considering... Here, I'd like to thank the esteemed MPs for the replica. Here, you said yourself it just wasn't used before, right? I don't think we should get into a situation right now to pass the law so we can have some provisions that we won't use again. The best thing to do is to get these things out of the law and not be there in the second reading. If we weren't alone again, we wouldn't be making laws that we wouldn't be implementing, so in a few years or months, we'd be saying yes again, that was before, but it wasn't being implemented. I think now that we're making a new law on the communal economy, then to respect absolutely all the objections, so that even such things can be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70297	Thank you. We're moving on with the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, Mr. Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70298	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I've been listening very carefully to the debate all day, especially my fellow MPs and MPs, the mayor and the mayor. I can only be a communal contributor. Otherwise, I have no special experience, so I tried to listen carefully precisely because I was interested in matter itself, but I would only return to my profession. So I will refer only to Articles 91 and 127 of the bill. In fact, what I've heard, here through a full-day debate by fellow mayors and mayors, I could compromise it in article 135, I think that's paragraph 4. In determining the unit of local and regional self-government, the width and nature of business must be taken into account and the requirements of efficiency and economics. That's how I understood your debate, fellow MPs. Your debate has actually, all the time, and that replica of Mr. Shucker has just gone to efficiency and economics in carrying out this activity by units of local self-government. I still wouldn't talk about it. However, Article 91 provides for the possibility of amending and revoking a solution to the municipal contribution. According to those provisions, the administrative authority may amend, under official duty or at the request of a public contribution obligor, or, if it is an executive, i.e. a powerful solution to a municipal contribution, if a construction permit, another building act or a major project has been amended in such a way as to influence the calculation of the municipal contribution. Now the new Article 91 speaks within what time limit should this be within which the local self-government must return more funds or complete funds, but for me, the dilemma remains the last item whether or not with interest or without interest. It's a dilemma. It can cause a dispute. However, Article 127 introduces something that is not common, something that is possible for a colleague Klaric to quote earlier. I think it's 90th, 91st, yes. No, it's not 91. I've got the 90th unless there's been a change. You said that the laws and other regulations of state authorities and bodies that have public authority cannot have a feedback. The following paragraph, however, states that for particularly justified reasons only certain provisions of the law may have a return effect. So it's about retroactivity. I don't see in terms of special circumstances, no special differences, no see, no none. Is it real or quasi-retroactivity? We don't know that either. There's no explanation for him. Not to mention that local self-government units have made it possible for me, under the current law, to have the local self-government unit to be exclusively linked to the return of paid municipal contribution in terms of the construction of the facility and the municipal infrastructure devices, or only to the proportion of what was spent. On the other hand, such a provision would, if it were to remain in the draft law, therefore a retroactive provision would lead to legal uncertainty for a possible solution to the municipal contribution and a solution that refuses to return the municipal contribution after 10 years. However, in the theory of law and the EU, and we are nothing but part of the EU, so the legal system deals with a broader concept of legal certainty whose essential aspect is considered predictability, so that as subordinated concepts for the application of the principle of legal certainty, rights acquired and legitimate expectations are listed. I don't think there's any reason in the views of our legal framework, because the reverse retroactive action of the rules must not question the general legal principles and must not serve God's speculative purpose. Here we can also talk about a possible speculative goal. I said, if we understand each other, whether it's over or in progress. There's no explanation. And on the other hand, if this provision remains, you will bring units of local self-government into a blockade. You can't tell me that those from regular incomes, from fees and contributions from municipal power will pay it back especially because you forbid them to bring investors because they must be charged. As far as I know about communal fees and contributions. And for what, ten years? If a building permit in the end line if they accept that retroactivity, it's been valid for three years. What's 10 years for? Either he changed the building permit, changed the project or he didn't build anything, so he'd ask for a refund, but not for 10 years. In addition, according to the position of your ministry, as far as I am aware of the paid municipal contribution according to the permit which has been revoked, rejected or expired, and no construction has been initiated, it is possible to recognise with the new permit so that the owner of the land can obtain a new permit or sell the land in order to include in the price an improvement in the form of already paid municipal contribution. So, I suggest that the legal institute of retroactivity which can only exceptionally be introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia be well considered and that this provision of Article 127 is deleted and remains fair to return more overpaid funds or even total funds if man has not access to construction. Therefore, Article 91 is just in the extreme line just, but 127 is completely unfair and causes legal uncertainty especially in local self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70299	Thank you, too. Mr. Varda, you have two replicas. The first is Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70300	Comrade Vard, I thank you for essentially continuing, confirming what I did in the replica and speaking and what I warned you about. And what I think the law didn't get enough into the problem of solving something that was in practice unimplementable or difficult. We have situations that the solutions on municipal compensation issued by the first-degree body included certain areas, so, for example, according to a certain coefficient, the green area was charged, the transport infrastructure, the manufacturing part in the industrial zone, and then they complained and appeared on that basis, that the case law was completely different because the law did not prescribe how this issue would be regulated. And in this bill of law, we have a whole series of such illogicalities that, now that we're doing the new law, have been able to get rid of the suggestions and the inputs that came from the field related to it. The second-degree body solves differently. So, the city or municipality issues a solution, this one complains. Now in one case, it's solved like this, in another case it's solved like that, but they always have some kind of excuse on the same key that they're going to solve it, we're coming up with some kind of blockade of the system. And not to mention the questions where we have certain debts in the payments being accumulated, and then the entity stops having local self-government units after the accumulated debts to the solutions issued cannot charge that kind of thing. So this first reading by me should be a broad debate that will lead to him being a lifesaver.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70301	Thank you. Mr. Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70302	Comrade Klaric, I think that if you understood me when I was talking about the quasi-racticity institute, that's why I mentioned that term of possible speculation. It's probably about procedures that are under way, procedures in the administration or I don't know which courts. But it's a ten-year period too long. You spend money, you don't have any new income, and you can't just pay it back from regular incomes. You made the infrastructure, right out of that income. And that's why I think this article 127, and I suggested that this article 127 should, in addition to that, you know, honestly speaking, be suspicious to me as a lawyer. If we talk about Article 91, but only in Article 127 does we refer to this article, I am pretty clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70303	Thank you. Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70304	Dear colleague Varda. You are an agent who, with very little words, says a lot of things, so I will try to be in the standard of standards that you represent, where I will say that I support your position in the debate, and as regards the retroactive application of the law with an explanation, whether it is administrative or any other procedure. Life teaches us that one exception draws thousands and thousands of exceptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70305	Thank you very much. We don't have any more replicas. Mr. Baranimr Bunjac. And the answer, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70306	Excuse me, just for a minute. That's why I'm against retroactive provisions because they take back what I said at the end of the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70307	Thank you, too, for your briefness. Mr Branimir Bunjac, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70308	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, state secretaries with associates. We have before us a proposal for a law on the municipal economy and we could finally say, very nice to discuss one Croatian law once, if it weren't for European law if it wasn't for P.Z.E., but what do we get? We get a bill written by the party to the remains of the rest of the HNS, which has a large rating of almost 3% against which the entire Assembly stands even those parties with which they are in the coalition. We have a law that doesn't defend the minister, but sends a secretary of state who doesn't even sit while the representatives' clubs are arguing, let alone what he says. We have a law that's written as if it was written by children in elementary school, here I'm asking you to open article 98 paragraphs 2 and 3, so since there's no gentleman to explain to me what the difference is between those two paragraphs. Here, please, Mr. Bačić, Article 98, paragraphs 2 and 3. Can you tell me what the difference is because I really don't understand what this is about? Furthermore, when we read this, then even what comes from Europe, otherwise the harmful laws come to us, but even what comes to us seems particularly tolerable compared to what our own colleagues write to us. Because ultimately, this law represents nothing more than tax and repression. We have what's interesting even the legislator doesn't even hide, here he was introduced to a small door again tax on real estate or some of his parts and there we come to what the Living Wall warned all the time last summer, which is that by giving up real estate taxes he'll just be looking for a new name to get back into the procedure. And here we have learned that new name, that new name is called the Law on the Communist Economy. Because, among other things, parts of that failed law have just been prescribed in this new law, some new items are introduced that will have to be paid and, most importantly, the same coefficients that are mostly viewed in order for newer real estate to be paid are higher amounts. And that's where we come to that crucial moment that interests our citizens in the end, and they're only interested in whether by passing this law we're going to pay a higher communal fee or we're going to pay the same or we're going to pay less. It is quite clear, unfortunately, that with such a bill we will pay a higher municipal fee, and long ago it is known that our citizens are barely paying the fees they now have and that they have no more than one June to endure any new tax burden. Here, among other things, is the point that you're going to have to pay taxes on undeveloped building land, that's, say, one novelty. It's really not that high in the first moment, but it's important that it exists and that one day it might increase, so it's important that people get used to paying for something, so when they get used to it, they get used to it. Old practice. What happens if some land is reused? Let's say it's re-purposed agriculturally into construction. So only overnight people will find themselves practically able to pay taxes that they didn't have to pay until yesterday. I would also like to warn here that in this law, communal directors are given some kind of police authority and, moreover, the media and some parties are openly saying that this is about some kind of city police. So the notion of a complete unknown is being introduced so far in Croatia, so the municipal directors will represent the city police, so that we can immediately wonder what kind of police will then have residents in the country. Will it be the village police, or may it be the municipal police? Do these people have qualifications to do this job? Can I just say that I can be city judges? Could they be city teachers or other professions? How and why do we create parallel institutions? See what happened when parallel institutions were created, for example when the MUP transferred powers to the Vehicle Centre, part of the power, when the Ministry of Justice transferred some of the power to the Attorney's Office. When, say, the Executive Act is left in the hands of public notaries, lawyers, FINAs, the Agency for the collection of claims. As everything will be more efficient, and we see that there are various abuses and we see what is worst of all that there is therefore a gathering, and the people would say there is an intensification of similar personnel that are not essentially necessary. So now what are these community directors who become local police? They represent the armed force of local powers. After the lex sheriff, you should now introduce a lex ranger. Now the head of the municipality needs to have, so people who can walk around the village uniformly and have powers that the police don't have. Be careful, because the communal officer has more authority than the police, he has the right to enter my yard. That cop can't do it without a court order. The communal director can do that. He has a right to ask me for a passport. Watch out, you've got the right communal officer to look for a passport, that's what the law says. So why are we on customs at the state border that he's going to be looking for my passport now and that's because, say, you're walking the dog. And now, let's say he's interested. Here comes my colleague Bulj outside the house to walk the dog, there's a police officer in the city of Sinya, and he says he's taking out a passport to see if he's got a dog chip. And now let's imagine a situation where someone will say no. Because I'll be the first to say no. Now what? Now what? Now follow karate procedures, pendrek, handcuffs. Are we going to give communal directors the right to use force? If someone won't submit to them, then force. Right? That's what the law says. That's how I understand it. Maybe someone understands something different. So the simple terror that started a few decades ago is only being upgraded, so you don't know the ZET controller, so when you get to the parking lot, here's that parking controller, so when you get home, you get control of HEP, then the water controller, so the HRT controller pulls out the card, jumps out of the window, you got a TV set, you don't have to give you the tip. Now the communal directors will have the right to do that. The main target will be dogs. And it's about the fact that these communal directors should first know how to do those jobs they're now authorized to do, they don't. But then he wants to give them even more authority. Here I invite you to the first time you see an abandoned dog call a communal director, you can call for two months no one will pick up your phone. So they're your communal directors. I don't often say they're all, but I know whenever I call the communal director, he never calls me back, but that's why he's gonna call me when he wants to. That's it, yeah. So there's no need. We've got 20,000, 30,000 cops. So a whole bunch of cops. So let's give these cops what they used to do. If there's a need for a little bit of surveillance, so let's get video surveillance I don't know on public surfaces. All right, somebody at the playground is making a mess. Okay. Let's put the camera on, it's cheaper than having those communal monks. Well, it's not such a problem to control public areas today. What is particularly controversial and what has been mentioned today has been the privatisation of public services. Again, the question is, will this public service law make it cheaper or more expensive? The answer will be more expensive again. Well, of course, it's a tendency. Because if we privatize communal activity, then we look at the privateer, it must always have profit. He's got to have a profit or he won't do it. The public company is operating at zero. That's her goal. And if, by any chance, there's a surplus of income, then they'll either put it in the budget or reinvest it. The private will never do that. If he has extra income he'll put it in his pocket, that's quite clear. And now look at the illogicality if we give the collection of waste to the private and his company goes into bankruptcy for example. And then what? He'll sell the cans, sell the containers, sell the vehicles, fire the people, and no more garbage from tomorrow. Is that allowed? He can't. Look you have the experience of Great Britain. There they tried for 40 years to privatise municipal activities, and eventually they had to give up because all the analyses showed that municipal services were worse and more expensive. Now, as they say, smart learns from other people's experiences in other people's mistakes, and the other part of the sentence says it yourself. Because in Croatia, it is a public secret that in the affairs of waste collection and other things do not care about the interests of citizens, even less about the concern of nature protection than often concerns that individual politicians, suspicious persons and the entire parties take millions of euros in commissions. I've been very careful about what I'm going to say and I'm going to repeat it once more, millions of euros in commissions. That's the goal, not the interests of the citizens. And then what do we have in the end, what practice? We already have practice, I don't know that garbage is being transported from Rijeka to Koprivnica, that someone is paying off millions of taxpayers' money bonuses, that waste is not being separated, that it's not recycling, that marine and sweet waters and various resources are being destroyed, that we have horrors on Karepovac, at the Marines in Piškornica, St. Jurju near Senj, dung bale in front of Varazdin, recycling yard near the purifier on the river Cetina, etc. Among other things, I would like to say that this law constitutes an additional blow to tourism activity because it will represent a new increase in competition. So it is very important for Croatia to be competitive with Mediterranean countries. We have a very big competition, we have Greece and Spain or still Turkey, and that any of this collection is obviously coming to our markets, our bidders are going to work less competitive, it's inevitable. Many already complain about those privates who have apartments, who have hotels that have to pay a lot more than they pay in Germany, for example. Some had, some even have apartments in Germany and Croatia and compare prices and say it is more expensive here. Finally, the question of pollution has to be asked, it must definitely be asked. Here is the latest study published these days showing that in Croatia, the level of CO2 is more than 1.5 times the EU's garbage dump. I can ask the same question again, is this law going to make pollution bigger or smaller? Unfortunately, the answer is the same again, the pollution will of course be greater. Therefore, I call on the motion that this mockery be withdrawn from the law and that it should not be further disgraced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70309	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. First Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70310	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, in your debate, you have devoted a good part of the time to potential privatisation. I said every law, so does this one, that it must be unequivocal and clear. The reading suggested an open possibility of privatising certain municipal activities to the damage of municipal companies within the units of local self-government, which was also discussed by my colleague Demetlika. I believe that in those units of local self-government that have no capacity should enable the involvement of private companies. But if, by any chance, this ends in a way that is harmful to companies, which means to the harm of citizens because they will only pay bigger services, then it would be good to look at examples of other neighbouring countries in certain cities that have privatised all public services to torture today to bring them all back to the property of local self-government units. The privateer only knows the economic category, the local self-government unit thinks very well of the social component that is in line with one sustainable price.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70311	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70312	Thank you very much. Your Honor. This comment of yours points to one very important thing, which is that many units of local self-government cannot fulfill their basic task. And here unfortunately we come to the very cause of many problems, which is that the territorial structure in Croatia is not satisfactory. Not only are certain units of local self-government not able to take care of waste or provide quality other municipal activity, but they often do not even have to pay their employees. We saw in the analysis that was recently here that 90% of local self-government units are unable to apply for European funds. We have seen that some units of local self-government can also not do many other things that are necessarily necessary, I do not know the grave activity etc. It should also consider that Croatia needs a territorial reconstruction, that it is necessary to reduce the number of municipalities and cities so that they get the opportunity to solve their own problems. Surely if something can't be done that should then reach for solutions, and normally no one can let trash pile up in front of houses or I don't know on the street, but privatisation definitely doesn't, not because I said it or you just because it shows practice in the EU countries where, as you say, now they're trying to actually go back to what they had. So if we don't have any smart solutions then let's keep what we have because there's still room for things to get better and get better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70313	Thank you, too. The second replica of Mrs. Mark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bunjac, you mentioned a communal fee and construction land. Let's be honest to the end. And the current law defines the communal fee related to construction land, here it's just a little bit different defined. And how in nature that works. In nature it works that it does not exist and that at all, at all, this idea of burdening construction land is one spatial plan idea that knows certain countries which actually, it is about rent where you have to pay for this land fee as if you have built a property that allows the spatial plan. In a situation where Croatia is, no one is forcing us to have that provision, and I think that in terms of some minimum hygiene, it would be an instructional provision relating to the communal fee on construction land not to throw out and not to force municipalities and cities to actually do illegal work in that part, but it has grounds to consider where the land was used on tourist facilities that I was sort of talking about because it is an income where a local self-government unit cannot put up land, bring in a purpose, can't plan a new land and has a burden because it is meaning and communal compensation? The purpose of the municipal fee and the introduction of it is to maintain existing municipal infrastructure, investment and everything else, so the construction land not built is something that doesn't work, it doesn't work today either. And in the sense that if there's a new law, then it seems to me that the age of some elemental hygiene has come and that provision is abolished and we don't have it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70315	Thank you. Mr. Bunt's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70316	Thank you very much. The called Taritash MPs, therefore, raises the question of whether the citizens can withstand any more tax pressure. So the tax pressure in Croatia is so high that it exceeds even the imagination of the greatest pessimist. So we have to pay 27% of the salary contributions, 25% we have to pay VAT, we have to pay excise fees on non-fat coffee, on gasoline, on vehicles, on sugar, everything we buy, we have to pay fees that I don't know about fees, re-expense documents, communal fees, taxes. And definitely here in this case we see that there's a tendency to raise communal fees. So I've been informally speaking to some people who say, experts that that's exactly the goal of this law, means that in the future, communal fees will increase. And when you mentioned, when you mentioned the opinion of the people, it is very important to ask yourself whether this law has a function of demographic renewal or whether this law has a function of dissipating people again. Because now why should those who build new houses have to pay again, who build new houses? Are you going to build a new house? Will Mr Furio Radin? No, they're going to build young people, young people, young families, they're going to get hit by a bigger communal fee, and in any case, it's not exactly a demographic measure. And right now, among other things on some portals, it takes a public statement on this law of 87% of people is against and now I'm not saying that this is a scientific methodological absolutely correct but someone should appreciate that here's Parliament is against, citizens are against, many illogicalities are established, the relationship of the legislator is very creamy and bad so that this law best not even go to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70317	I'm under the impression that you won't answer either, Mr. Bunjac. Did you hear me, Mr. Mud? I have a feeling you won't answer it either, not just me. ... All right, individual debates. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The first is by tradition Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70318	Traditionally right. Here's the whole day we've been talking about this law that's very important. So at least it was the order of this law, in one part of the session, now the minister will finally come to show himself because I see that he's making statements on municipal police officers, on badges, on how he's going to carry numbers. But the absolute minister doesn't care because he's just talking about these cops, so I don't know how in the underdeveloped areas these communal monks or what he calls them, these directors of what they're going to serve, they're going to be able to come in freely, if this kind of policy continues Mr. Stromar's vice president and the entire government, they're going to be able to enter freely in all these courtyards,... So, this story absolutely, all day long we've been talking doesn't hold water, this Law on the municipal economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We see communal activities being imposed on local self-government and the funds are not secured, the story is to maintain roads owned by the county, the state, that they are secured. In other laws, there is absolutely no truth, and this has been confirmed by a number of commissioners, mayors, for a long time I've been in this local policy. So the team, this law imposes on local self-government burdens and the financial resources are not secured. And as far as the powers are concerned, the public powers that will be passed on to privates, so we don't protect the public interest anymore, we even allow for a small door to enter privatisation in very critical and important things at a small door, because it's easier for Minister Štromar, the vice-president of the Croatian government of the HDZ coalition and the CNS and the SDSS, it's much easier for him to tell the cops about it now the whole state is talking about cops and badges. And he doesn't talk about how there's no sign of a small door in here and the secretary's been denying me with lies and lies all the time. There's no mention here of the city's activity that water supply is. Who wants the water supply? He wants to go into private hands too, so that the private man can take over our water supply, not the utility, owned and drained companies, of course. So when we start on municipal activities, when we talk about us, we call on the EU, the directive, and of course the assistant minister will laugh at what I'm saying. Then I come to the Straight Wheels and suddenly it's like we're on Mars, a black hill in the last 10 years, nobody cares. Di is the municipal order, where the municipal order is in Plitvice Lakes, where the municipal order is in numerous cities, where literally the sewerage is open. They're minor problems. However, it is important to give public authority. As mentioned earlier, as given for the vehicle centre, but here we're going to do, it means something less than 600 smaller ones, units of local self-government, we've voted Lex Sheriff, and now we've given that person we've chosen a huge burden, a huge burden of activity. And the ones that matter where we could make some money, local self-government, that's what's left of the teleopers. Still the Department of Construction is silent about base stations, where they can set up teleopers wherever they want, without being in space. We're talking about space protection, I can put them wherever they come up with them. Rents for 100 marks. They don't need the consent of neighbors, or the consent of local self-government, so this whole list of important things that go into the pocket of others, it's funny here to them, but it's really a role one, along with the Ministry of Health, there are legally, I give the law in the procedure, I've already pointed out a few times. I gave the former Minister of Construction, who is now in the second ministry of the same government, and I gave him a list of legal proposals in hand here and means regulations and regulations that we need to change, that teleopers don't behave, how they behave, and that the DTK network is finally these subsidies in that infrastructure to be in favour of local self-government, not to forgive them. And we had here and the law where we were supposed to vote, but it was over and after the public debate was changed, which is that teleopers pay the right of service, which, of course, they do not do in Croatia, but they do so in Germany, Sweden and countries where they come from. Of course now my colleagues will say, I see them talking, telling stories, of course, and it will be very neat and beautifully privatized all together, and so as telecommunications were called, they're moving a little bit towards the waste, a very important branch, and they're moving a little towards the waters. So, because delivery of water is very important, and that's what utility companies do. But, of course, here's the fuss and confusion about the recycling yard and then it's normal for people to call me from the village of Vojić, and it's done by the recycling yard in Trilj, right next to the river Cetina, that they haven't seen it at all, or in the flats or numerous other activities, which have nothing to do with anything. But the important thing is that there are cops, mostly in underdeveloped areas, locals. It means the local sheriffs keep... They're gonna build me a tower, they're gonna arm me more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the main story all day. Here, I've now activated the portals, the Minister of Stromana who was supposed to be here to explain this lex hack, according to the units of local self-government, but there's no explanation. But they deny it does not say that water will be privatized, that it will receive a concession on water supply, does not write it, no. Well, of course it doesn't. If it did, it'd be local self-government units than you didn't write it. That's what you should have written, that's what local self-government is about. Well, that's the problem. But it's important to talk about badges, cops, who's gonna pay for it? Do you have money for that, where's your money for it? Where's the money? This is where it was active. But you didn't secure the money, you didn't secure the money, you made too many commitments to the mayor and the mayor to local self-government. And even, that they're responsible for what's going on on county roads. This law says so, and you can check it out, famous article, fellow Boric often repeated it this way in passing, menu 22, paragraph 2, where you gave local self-government, where you gave local self-government, county state roads. And he says, we'll be in the Traffic Act. But that's not true. That's not true. You're cheating on the public. That's funny to you. You're introducing a privatization targeted, targeted privatisation of water supply, because you're nowhere to say it's the city's activity. Come on, find me where the activity is. You'll read it to me because it's in art. 22. You state the activity, and the public authorities, a little, look, the public interest is forgotten. Who will oversee the beaches, who will gently allow the wind parks that you are in the former governments, Minister Štromar, his party. Is anyone going to oversee that? No, of course not. They're the only ones we're gonna pay. And because of... The parks that the subsidies left, many young people leave, many. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then 3 wouldn't get millions of kunas a year but they should get 10 million kunas but Sinj, they wouldn't. And the profit goes away, the gain goes away, colleague Klaric, I sign everything you say. You were active at first, I don't know why you stopped, there was an excessive shelling of this law. You've been worse than me and rightly so, you're head of local self-government, very successful, regardless of party belongings, if I have information. Indeed, here you are, replicating me and telling me whether this law is constitutional, as you said the first 20 articles, okay, describing what is described by the Constitution, and later constitutionally. You want to privatize the small door, through this, you're going to say this is lex specialis, lex general, all of you will legally underline it, as you've understood, against the social measures they've drawn subsidies for wind power plants. The government of Mr. Vrdoljak, Deputy Prime Minister of Milanovic, now the HDZ coalition partner, and probably as far as I read it, will now be Minister of the Future or not, or, respectively, Mrs. Dalic, we will see it. So, once again, I would say to the end, that it is sad and embarrassing, what this lex hack has come at all, solely because of the citizens of these local self-governments, mainly in the underdeveloped areas, great burdens have been put on and great obligations and responsibilities, and the funds are not foreseen, the privatisation of municipal waste, water supply, draining, so they are trying and the goal is mostly this. It happened similarly in telecommunications, only now telecommunications has been handed over to foreign owners, and now what's left to clean up, so you gave the law to a man in town, a law on lex sheriff, I believe that the Constitutional Court will disprove that, our decision. But I also believe that these officers that the state will provide at least money for them, but when we have 600 separate sovereign fortresses within the Republic of Croatia that will be managed by one person, you have made it possible for him by law, and of course I will never support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70319	Thank you, too. We have three replicas, the first Mr. Ice cream.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Bulj, how do you comment on a part of the law in which all branches of Zagreb Holding that are not engaged in municipal activity will have to go to privatisation? One of these municipal activities is waste disposal. Now it can theoretically happen, here I won't be a bad prophet to have citizens pay for all those containers that will have to be for recycling, compos and such things, to have someone buy it in a year. It reminds me of the privatisation of Telekom, so when citizens invested in infrastructure in the end it's all someone bought and we have huge prices in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70321	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70322	I don't need to remind you of this privatisation,...so this is it, this is a law that simply has nothing to do with the public interest in which we stress. And I'm sorry what the whole day was an empty chair of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, so he was still famous, he said that he would act like Superman in the government he would solve problems and really man has attitude and style. And it's a shame he's not here, the Minister of Construction, the Deputy Prime Minister for not coming here. Here's the other day, same law. Yesterday at this late hour, Minister Dalic came here and defended her law. A law that had good things and it had to be said, I don't know why. Well, I can't believe there's been a reference here as an activity to the draining and water supply of local self-government. It's easy to sneak in and... say the general law forbids it, but this is a special law of course that's stronger, is it always a special law... And the fact that it's going to be counter-constitutional, that water will be easy on the competition who will win and, of course, the privates will raise our price and that it will be an impact, is it going to say not the profitable companies of the city, the triba given to the private, the privateer keeps it better. Well, the water goes down the hill anyway, I think. In Croatia, the normal way we behave, here my river Cetina flows towards the tribal is to be free water, free, only pay for maintenance of the system, so throughout Croatia. But then it will be privatised and someone will get the money well, but well, that Croatian People's Party has experience there they will do it very professionally and effectively, and especially by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70323	Thank you, too. Another replica, Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70324	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you have touched the introduction of new municipal activities that were not defined by the old Law on the Communist Economy and, of course, that is one blow to the budget of the units of local self-government because we see a new municipal activity of maintaining parts of public roads that pass through the settlement and the definition of all roads, maintaining those parts of public roads that pass through the settlement according to special regulations. We all know the Law on the Roads that public roads count both county roads and state roads, hence major cities in the center of their settlements, all these roads, maintaining them, we mean horizontal and vertical signalling falls on the burden of local budgets. In particular, the one in Vrgorec is now conducting a tender for horizontal and vertical signalling where I will certainly spend about 150 thousand kunas and instead of paying me two thirds of the state and county roads this law will all fall on the burden of units of local self-government and instead of having an additional ten scholarships for students, given the poverty that has already been povertyed local budgets, I will only have to further maintain something that was to be maintained by county or state roads, and we do not have absolute income from motor vehicles according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70325	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70326	Thank you very much. So that the horizontal and vertical signalling that you do not do on your part with this law you will be responsible, no matter what the owner of the county you will answer as head of self-government. It may be good for some if they have the party's membership card in power, so perhaps the prime minister will allow them to do so, and others, of course, will not, and that is the democratic patriotic system we have a party. I think I don't know how to behave both the mayors and the mayors of course who are not tied close to the mayors and don't have party cards, I see that the nervous something of Boric's here is equable, so if you can chair if you can warn. Of course, they are nervous because they should have a party card, of course, so in the place that Boric, who complains to me all the time, thousands of people, and of course he will be able to solve it easily. He'll go to the Prime Minister and he'll take him vertically and horizontally, but he won't do it by this law to you. And then they will boast how successful they are, how they have a vertical, not a horizontal vertical on the road, but a vertical towards power. What you're making is irrelevant. The important thing is that you are in the ruling party, this is exactly how the law is defined and you will be forced for everything you have invested in rebuilding those roads that are owned by the county and the state, you must beg for those funds back. If you have it for kindergarten, if you're going to turn off the bus lines, you want to have for textbooks it's irrelevant, but it's going to be fog and lie. Just as the mayor of Split-Dalmatia has made it possible to secure the funds for the books of 8 million is needed 336 million and then the whole comes down, dernece, lie, and local self-governments are moving from Tijarce to Kamenska and here to Civljani, empty villages with a list.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70327	Thank you. And the last replica, Mr. Claric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70328	Dear fellow Bull, when you called me to rephrase to you today, even though I am through my 20s and I don't know how many replicas I've said, basically yours and my debate about one and the same law is completely in two opposite ways. What's for sure, the way you're discussing and what you call these laws lex as it is, will certainly be published on all the portals, that will be talked about, written, and my say won't. As many discussions here in the House are not written, it does not speak for a simple reason because they are operational because they talk about specific problems, because they want to do something better. I have called this law, but I have called this law in a way that I have mentioned a concrete article, that I have quoted the Constitution, that I have spoken of this law something that is happening in life and the way I personally think that law should be made better, that it is at the service of our citizens. And I think that's how we should all start talking. And we can speak in other ways as some of our colleagues, so we'll all be quoted by portals and I don't know what magazines and media, but this is life. This law is life, this is a tool for some mayor, mayor, your municipality, the city, the Cetina region, in my Croatian coast to be able to implement more easily what the law has allowed him to implement and serve his citizens. So it's hard to coordinate here, but I'm glad to know you personally, that everything I've said is very supportive. For the simple reason that you probably want better for your citizens. But if we're going to attack, we're just going to attack and we don't have an argument, we don't have a fact, so then we twist some of the things that aren't in this law at all, then we're talking about something we shouldn't talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70329	Thank you, Mr. Klaric. Time's up. And yours will be announced by Mr. Klaric, but you should go to the opposition sooner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70330	My colleague Klaric, I absolutely gave your support to your debate, I've even listed articles a few times today, I can repeat them again, if you've listened, probably because this topic is of interest to you, you're head of not only administration, I've been in local politics for a long time, and as with my independent list and I'm aware of it and I'm interested in it being better, but I'm sorry if you think I've been discussing something in a way that I wanted to offend someone, no, I've repeated the same thing you said. Even you, according to me, have shelled this bill too much, but I know now how time goes, that you'll have to stop, but simply with this, I told you and the chairman why. You absolutely know that you agree with my presentation and with all the articles that I have listed and Articles 22 and 24 and 36 and that public powers are being transferred and dio activities have been added, where the city of great obligations are being given, we have spoken the same thing, but I have not considered it much now because in this individual I just wanted to say that our minister has been giving a statement all day about the local police, about the badge and that it will be on that badge of the city. All day instead of being here in the Parliament and he's defending this law. I have pointed out by this law that there are no certain activities mentioned and where I am most afraid it means water supply and, of course, waste where local self-government and the problem of burial, transportation, so we have a lot of problems that we've been discussing all day, but in this debate I haven't had the time but I have studied it well, read it and noticed it with my colleagues mainly with my colleague Pranjiæ and all those who have studied it well and know what it is, believe me. I gave my support, I know I'm an opposition, so you guys need to wash your hands a little bit and you know I'm right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70331	Thank you. Let's move forward with the debates, Mr. Ivan Šipic, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, this is one of the laws that means life for anyone living in a municipality or a city. This proposal sets out the principle of municipal economy, public interest, the principle of proportionate benefit, economy, efficiency and this law, following such a debate on so many examples and observations, should have a clear objective. More efficient rebuilding of municipal activities and better quality service for citizens. First of all, it is not the same to observe this bill in large cities and municipalities as well as those areas of less development and less fiscal capacity. It is not the same to apply this law in Zagreb or Split but also in Dalmatia or Slavonia. We'll agree that the advantage of today's debate is that this is the first reading. It is an opportunity after all that has been said and that all the force of the proposal and criticism can come to the ministry of the proposer. We all swear to a more effective local self-government, it needs this, it needs this, and this bill should, in the final proposal, facilitate the work of local self-government and give it a new momentum towards the extent that there is a city or municipalities and that is more communally efficient and sustainable. The basic question is, do many points of this law make it easier for us to work and to deal with not only municipal affairs but also economic activities? The law needs to help us leaders, not stop us, not make us a framed service. Let us take an example that wants to warn us about the purpose of the economic zone or the struggle for the investor because if it will be taken away from the units of local self-government and representative bodies, at least partially freeing up the municipal contribution, what support do we send that we care about economic growth and development? The mayors and mayors, especially in undeveloped areas, are struggling to create conditions to create and create a new workplace. It is not the same to attract entrepreneurs in Zagreb and the surrounding area or Trilj, Sinj, Croats or Zagora in Dalmatia, and this measure is regularly encouraging us because what kind of investment is being paid back, such investment returns multiple, from employment to communal compensation. It is good for individual articles of this proposal to be reviewed and analysed as e.g. The article repeatedly mentioned 22. refers to the maintenance of the parts of public roads passing through the settlements, here for example the cities of Trilj, Sinj, and Vrgorac and many towns and municipalities in the Cetina region and wider and Dalmatia and throughout our beautiful ones have exactly what we are talking about. And I simply when I saw firsthand this proposal of possible development of the situation in order to say in the Koshuts which entered 3 interrupted the road and there to the exit from Trilj specifically that it should carry all the town of Trilj and carry and state roads and maintain and worry etc.. So I just don't want to believe that that's how the state would treat us through this bill. I also want to believe in what we heard today and on behalf of the promoters of the HDZ Club when he said at dawn this morning that from this basis, the old law and the Law on Croatian Roads do not apply through this part, and I believe that we will also hear it from the promoter himself. So I don't want to believe that under that point of the law, towns of smaller, especially smaller capacities like us and cities and municipalities would take care of themselves and worry about such problems as building footsteps, maintenance roads, editing these roads and trust me in 22 settlements, in our example 22 settlements almost 400km of roads in our unit of local self-government I simply wouldn't, I don't want to believe that all this together through this proposal of this point of law would be something that would add up to us and I'm saying these are figures of which the head hurts. But here's what's going to happen, and that's another reading, and I believe that until the second reading and through the second reading, we're going to clarify this point which is painful in one way amongst the others that we've been listening here today. In addition, Article 36(3) of the so-called section of the so-called ‘big majority’ has raised the question of such a proposal that the company is engaged solely in a entrusted activity and cannot carry out another market activity at the same time. What are market activities then, which can then be specifically obtained from that part if, for example, the company in charge of maintaining, say, public lighting cannot do other activities in the field of labour or the municipality or concessions it may have received. So I believe that this issue of companies and relations within this bill will also get many answers to questions and solve many of the doubts that are being imposed. So I believe that, ultimately, the meaning of this law, which is more effective and certainly self-sustainable local self-government, will achieve its result and that we will not have a law that will burden us more than I believe, will relieve us and direct us to be both sustainable and sustainable, but to be one way to overcome all the negativity that may come from day-to-day functioning in our local units and meet. So I give space to talk, to dialogue, to give simple dialogue and to all stakeholders and we have seen here through many queries and many suggestions that there really are and I believe that a lot of things will be crystallized at the benefit of the local community and not as often as we are here, God forbid that we should hear that it should make it difficult for us all together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70333	Thank you very much. You have four replicas. First Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70334	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Šipić, there's one joke that ends in a woman's way whether you'll believe more with your eyes or with my words. Well, now you have to decide what you're going to believe more in someone's words or your own eyes. But what I deeply believe is that today's debate was not in vain. The point of the Law on the Community Economy and I read it so and I don't want to read it differently is to make it easier for the municipal mayors or mayors to manage their space more easily, to really be what they must be, they must be managers, they must enable the development of the economy. Here we must not forget the municipal councils, or city councils that are in a certain way corrective, but for this you must have tools. And let's say there's some kind of elemental hygiene that needs to be done in this law, so it's this elemental hygiene that we don't have any more communal compensation for construction land because it doesn't work in nature, so let's comply with the Constitutional Court's judgment of 2017, which said that communal compensation is no longer intended but actually goes into the budget and you can manage it the way it is. I remind myself that in this House there in 2014, 2015 there was an amendment to the law of that same when we opened the communal fee and it was only narrowly intended, much wider. And you know what the debate was like? Great. Great, affirmative, the way it's supposed to be in the way it's supposed to go. ... Okay, nothing, I understand everything, it's the end of the day, and we're all more tired. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So what I'm doing through all of this, I still believe all the words that came from one side of the assembly, so in this joke I'm going to be the woman who believes the words and I believe that for another reading we're going to get one more decent law than it is right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70335	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70336	Well, fellow Taritash, you're part of...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70337	I'm sorry, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70338	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You can see everyone's concentration is dropping, so here's my apology. Just for a little while, you belong to a round of MPs that I greatly appreciate regardless of the party's or anything else, since we had the opportunity and in the past to be on some committees and listening and watching your discussions, and your participation, you are the ones who are the ones who can talk about this topic. And that's why I wouldn't say it's a joke or a joke but I certainly believe in words and trust experiences and trust fellow mayors and mayors and my club and the one who still participates in this whole thing that we'll find a solution that's best for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70339	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70340	I believe, I believe, I believe, I believe. Ten times you said "I believe." I believe it will be better, but the fact is, from where you and I come from, that people don't really believe much. It's a lot of empty space, unfortunately, but saying "I believe," it says, you yourself quoted articles and said "I believe" that's not so. I believe it's not like that, but when I read it, then I see they wrote it differently. So when you go through your local self-government, my neighbor, you see that it's becoming more and more empty territory. And you can see that this law imposes new obligations on you as head of local self-government and no means are provided for anywhere. And you speak three times “I believe, I believe, if God yes, I do. ” I believe it, too, but it says different. The Ministry is different here, and the secretary is silent, not defunct at all. Here you are threatened by colleagues Šipić and co-owners of the same company, in co-ownership is Trilj, Sinj and other companies and plumbing, cleanliness, to be the part very easily left behind and in privatisation, you know. These activities aren't exactly listed here. This is what I say in good faith. In the faith of public interest because you know that our Cetina is there and very interesting to people who could make good money from a clear river and just through... and we should have over a pipe home, and we could of course have a good profit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, in our public good and public interest, and I believe that what's written here is exactly written, that we haven't received any different papers than that the law is exactly the same, and let's take this law together to withdraw and change, I just don't know how to change it. Because if 300 objections, none of them were accepted in both this and the public debate, then we know what we're talking about. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70341	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, I'm certainly not used to this kind of discussion, and you know it very well, although these days you've often called me even though I'm not there, I certainly won't go down in that way, even though I've never been to the Parliament again, I'm sure I won't communicate like that, and you know it very well that I won't go to that level. But what's left of me than to say, I didn't say ten times "I believe" but I said it only twice. But it doesn't matter, and if I've said it ten times like that, I certainly won't discuss it or discuss it because it seems a little offensive, you have to admit it, but since I know you and you know me, I won't take it for harm, or for this or for that. So, you don't have to worry about whether I hurt the Rules of Procedure or didn't hurt, I think, and I still hold that we're going through another reading, so now you're calling to retire. And we have room for another reading. So in the second reading, here's what I'm going to say, I believe that it will be crystallized and my colleague Prajic, whom I appreciate as a young colleague and associate, who you have, among other things, unwittingly said is the local sheriff because if we're all local sheriffs, then he's the local sheriff because he's our colleague and he's the mayor and I'm not talking anymore, it doesn't make any sense. I think we understand each other very well. First reading and there's room for a repair lot of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70343	Thank you very much. Mr. Bully asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure but you said you weren't taking him to harm, are we gonna pull it back or are we gonna do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70344	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, paragraph 5, demeaning a representative because I spoke directly about the problem, I spoke correctly about the issue of this law, what you said, correctly without any, I don't know where you found yourself hurt or this or that you said, did you... I told you correctly and your debate that these are the facts that you have repeated all the articles, at no point have offended you, I just said that let's say that Trilj is in a difficult situation, demographicly like Sinj, it was a basic story that we have potentials and resources, and I am sorry that according to the list of highest unemployment per percentage of the town of Trilj, I am sorry, but it is so, and so is my end, I am sorry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70345	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70346	I really didn't want to tell you the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the 238th article is the carrying out of the truth, this last fact, I'm still a colleague of Bulju this morning, I said 238, when I asked me about this part of unemployment in the Trilj area, I said that it was incorrect and that it was exactly the opposite of what he said now. The town of Trilj 33.4% reduced unemployment last year. No, Cvitan, I didn't say. I agree with you. Mr. Bull, I didn't interrupt. Excuse me. Nothing blooms and it's not as you say it is. But it's not as black as you say. I did, however, want you to or whether you like it or not, now 18.02. 10 years mayor. No matter how hard you try to say the opposite. Ten years! There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70347	Okay. Thank you very much. Please nice, please. If I was an American judge, I'd say get rid of each other's records. Let's move on. Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70348	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Šipić, you have said several times that you cannot believe and that you are surprised by certain items of this law, mainly in that controversial Article 22(2), relating to public roads passing through settlements. I couldn't agree more with you. But I really can't believe something today. I can't believe this bill of law from your coalition partner has even come to debate in the assembly. So did you even read this law as a coalition partner and how could the government get to the Parliament today? And as for the lex sheriff, I don't consider myself a sheriff, but I'm the only mayor who proposed to the city council to examine the constitutionality of the lex sheriff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70349	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70350	All right, look, as far as I'm concerned, I'll go from behind, of course, the Lex Sheriff neither admits nor does that. The very fact that you've been chosen is legal and everyone needs to say hello. That's how the other side should be evaluated. And as for whether or not we've read the law, I think everyone's read the law they discussed here today. And the law isn't the Bible, so it's not subject to change. It's not a dogma that can't go to the revision, which can't come under the questionnaire. So I think this time and this space gives us enough time for the motionor to accept what he heard today, among other things, and what will come in this time that it is. So it's not my instinct to raise praises in any way right now or to degrade people's work. So this is susceptible. The very fact that you have had the opportunity to hear many thoughts of colleagues of the commissioner and mayor who are contrary to what we have heard today from the promoter and what we have here says that HDZ, that the Croatian Democratic Community is not so narrow and so self-loving that it will either poison itself or find an objection to its colleagues if we have a position because we are coming from local units. So I'm staying with that, and so are my colleagues, that everything is subject to and that we'll have a better and more quality proposal in the final one, and that's another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70351	And in the end, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70352	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Šipic, therefore, to continue at the end of this replica and I hope that we will have a better and better quality law. I remembered once when the National Protection and Rescue Authority held a seminar. She invited all the mayors and mayors there from my county. When people heard what they were responsible for, one of them said that I knew about this, I wouldn't run for office. I never called people local sheriffs because they are people in the Republic of Croatia who have really electoral legitimacy. They were directly elected here as colleagues Pranic and you people who, this one, are citizens who choose and who are responsible for the citizens. But you're right when you say that this law not only has implications for the lives of citizens. He has implications for those people who are responsible for the lives of citizens. So, in this case, commissioners, communal directors. This has been warned that the communal monks are slightly placed in one position – for everything they are responsible for. Today, a colleague, Klaric, read a court ruling. If I understand correctly, when it comes to Article 22 of this Law, it is related to Article 27. The Law on Roads and which says like this: "in paragraph 2, a legal person who manages a public road passing through the settlement does not perform public road cleaning tasks, except for the cleaning of snow." So, look now, in Slavonia the tractor goes out to the county or public road, the state road, leaves mud, rain falls, it slips, the car comes along and God forbid, lands in the canal. Who's responsible? The head of the community. It's not a tractor that's responsible. He doesn't write the law to maintain a farmer. He keeps it, because the local self-government unit is also required under special laws to maintain this. Otherwise, Polish. ... They say in the western countries of Germany there's a nice place where there's a hose and this one, opera. But I mean, there's responsibility. So this law has profound implications for many. How does this law improve? At this point, it would be hypocritical of me to say I know how it would be better. But it has to be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70353	Thank you very much. All right, let's do more, let's do more. You can talk more. Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Peric, and the answer... here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70354	Here, just a little bit. Well, we agree. So he's alive and will certainly direct future, in one way, future development of local self-government. As whatever the law on local taxes has brought well-being to us, especially for smaller cities and municipalities, and we all know that. So I believe that this law will one way follow this further step towards improving the development of local self-government. As for snow, I too would have an example of snow, because Croatian roads were cleaning up, so they switched to our footstep, so the woman broke her leg and paid for the city. And we could use a shovel to get that snow back and then, what would we get? So we have a lot of illogicalness and a lot of things to discuss. But I believe, I repeat again that this step forward will be done with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70355	Thank you very much. Let's continue the debate. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Tomislav Jagar. He's here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70356	Thank you, Vice President. ... Now, since I've already said some things through replicas, I'm going to try to do this for a little while, in the debate, to say those things that I think are important to emphasize. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I personally find it controversial in this law Article 36, I think the second paragraph where it says they are not allowed to apologize, paragraph 3 where the competition is actually improving, is that, in fact, it prevents communal businesses from dealing with other economic activities. I think it's going well, but it's not going to get results because whoever stops them from starting up again, that units of local self-government set up companies to deal with these certain economic activities because they kind of have a monopoly in that area, they can condition other owners to behave in the way that they do, of course, cross the frameworks of this law. I'll give you a concrete example, I can see that you don't exactly believe me, here in 2015, right in the area of Virovitica, entrepreneurs joined themselves and had an initiative to protect the competition where they complained about those companies owned by the county or the city, which conditioned their own services by getting other jobs, but it crosses the frameworks of this law. Will this law really prevent those who want to manipulate or make it difficult for those who work righteously and honestly, so let's say in this case of funeral activity, if he can't sell the coffin, he can't sell the flowers, and he's engaged in the funeral work, will he have to start another company to keep doing it? I'm not sure that the restraining order will achieve that result, I think it's more done by you, it would be more useful for inspections to do their job, to respect the Public Procurement Act and other horrors. But this law in this section prescribes it, so let's just say we hope it works. And what's particularly stuck in my eye, it's an article of the 113st municipal directors, you know now that I don't express myself, not to say hips, but what's going on in the Republic of Croatia is all loaded on their backs. You wanted to give them back their dignity here now, so you say they'll have a card, they'll have this. But how, I don't see that he's gonna come on private property that he's gonna tell someone to remove that plum or that, you know, that's a pretty dangerous story. How is this practical? They have a landscaping, then they have noise protection, so they have a veterinary inspection on their backs, and they are given a little attention. Maybe this part of the law should work out a little bit more, give them some other possibility of education. Probably another law defines their state-run expert exam that they must pass, but simply to provide them with more space, and here only defines that it is enough to have an ESS. And it doesn't even define that units of local self-government are obliged to send them to training professionally and so, maybe this should be introduced here given that range of jobs they have. And finally to conclude, I doubt this law will achieve the result that he predicted quite ambitiously, but here I believe that until the second reading we'll be doing something here and fixing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70357	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70358	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sagar. In your debate, you mentioned the communal directors, and if you hadn't mentioned them, I wouldn't have answered them, I promise, but I didn't say no. That thing with the communal directors is how you know when a little hole is made for you in your defense, so don't lock it up, bigger, bigger, bigger and the dam goes. So it's in your decision to take care of municipal waste in the city of Zagreb, which was in the City Assembly, the idea that municipal directors take care of the stink, and then see whose garbage can smells, and then punish the one they're going to figure out if one or more of them are going to go to absurd. And really when we don't know and we know that someone needs to be burdened with something and we don't know who that would be, then our rescue solution is the communal directors. So here's the debate today about how they become municipal police officers, and it would be really convenient to know how many of them there are in Croatia at all, what they are even professional devices, what they are doing today, how many they are doing, and we are really going all the time and we are thinking the way it is in the city of Zagreb. In the city of Zagreb, there is a serious utility service, the mayor of the city of Zagreb would certainly be pleased if there were city police, so there he would have his police, who I don't know how to call and manage, but let's see for ourselves what we have and what opportunities we have. And what's the whole time that you've been following our regulations for a little while, in regulations, we write it all together that when we're passing a regulation and we're discussing it that we know we're not going to apply it. When it comes to the existing Law on the Communist Economy... communal compensation on unbuilt building land and no one, I do not know that there is any unit of local self-government that... The same way we have... /Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70359	Thank you. Mr. Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70360	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Taritash. So this may be the real question in this law I don't know who's in charge, is it the Ministry of Administration or the Ministry of Economy. ... The Department of Administration to list how many people there are because in small municipalities you have people who are extremely valuable, enthusiastic, and who do a lot of work. In particular, in my community, do you know who built the cemetery cadastre? The same person who's the communal director. Then the State Department for Protection and Rescue, so you have a risk assessment of fire protection, so threats can be made by these people, but they don't have the authority, it has to be made by someone who has the authority. But people have knowledge, they have wills, but they put them in these awkward relationships that they dig through buckets or that they catch lost stray animals there, all sorts of people call them for everything that should make their position and role in society clearer and ultimately define their pay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70361	Thank you. Now we give our word to Mr. Arsen Bauk. He'll be the last speaker today because at 7:30 we interrupt even the replicas won't be on him today. Here you go, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I hope that the new Rules of Procedure will allow individual debates to come to an earlier debate on the first Intruder Radin law: It has not been concluded before, it has been agreed before./... No, no, therefore, I hope that those who have applied for an individual debate will come a little sooner in line for the new Rules of Procedure. So, firstly, I would like to point out, that this law cannot be supported, because it implies, that municipal companies, cannot carry out jobs that are on the market or which are not designated as municipal services. Communal companies digest among other things and many interesting jobs, so, one is a bond and a seductive... Then charge fees for nautical commercial and utility vehicles, then craft construction works and maintenance of green areas to third parties, and it seems to me that on the island of Lastovo the communal burns bread, not even bad, I have to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, according to this, it turns out, that you should go into breaking up a company to municipal and not municipal activities, and it's also a question of what it means to take out a waste disposal from a list of municipal activities, because the obligations on units of local self-government come as penalties, and they can be found in a situation to discuss a tender that any company, which will not have control, will then have to implement a waste management plan that brings units of local self-government. And yet all responsibility for the orderly maintenance of the site and the disposal of the waste remains on the leaders, they cannot control the implementation. Yeah. As far as the communal order situation is concerned, there's a feeling that they should be supermen there because of the angle. They have obligations. Ugl. are required to the units of local self-government. In view of the complexity of the particulars of the affairs of municipal directors and the conduct of certain or administrative or infringement proceedings, which require excellent knowledge of the legal rules governing certain areas by law or sublegal act, I ask the applicant to consider introducing the possibility of a degree of communal director, and the question is whether the term is adequate, because citizens are generally perceptible, so as to consider the formulations of a municipal scout, therefore, a person with completed secondary education in a four-year period, a communal director, a high school gymnasium administrative or economic education or an economic programme and 2 years of working experience and a communal inspector as a person for 6 or 7 years of education and 5 years of working experience on these or similar jobs. Usual cities, at that time, could easily deploy competences in handling, given the degree of complexity, the responsibilities of certain jobs, which are placed before the communal offices. As for the rest, since my colleague Zeljko Jovanovic lost the right to debate due to the signing-up of a large number of MPs, I will read a part he meant to say to remain for the record, and I will try to make sure that if I am almost 19.25, I give the word to Mr Pranjic. Can you do that? Thank you. So, Art. The 36th Law states that a commercial company engaged in municipal activities, whose establishment is a unit of local self-government, cannot carry out another commercial municipal activity. The previous draft law contains a provision under which it can carry out that market activity, which is related to the basic municipal activity. If the current proposal is adopted, major problems arise in the municipal societies, which carry out funeral activities, as they will no longer be able to deal with the funeral activity, which includes transport and equipment of the deceased, but only the burial and organisation of the funeral. The fact is that at present all municipal societies in the Republic of Croatia are carrying out this activity by the basis of the Law on undertakement, and other activities are carried out by private undertakers. Communal companies shall, in this respect, have all valid authorisations from the competent authorities. In the absence of such operations, which are closely linked to the basic activities of burial and the management of cemeteries, it leads to the lay-off of one part of the workers, the capacity and real estate produced for that purpose and the other. With this in mind, so far many activities have been launched and the very group of municipal societies at HGK are all familiar with the above problem. Article 38 of the Law provides that a public company shall submit to the representative body an annual work plan for the following calendar year and a report on work, a financial report for the previous year. In view of the fact that the basis of the Law on Commercial Society has raised the question for the stated jurisdiction of the Assembly of the Society, the applicant shall therefore take account of the meaning of the term. Does it mean adoption, or just for information? Also Art. 105. The law lays down that the decision on municipal order prescribes the conditions and the way in which the area of public use is temporarily used. This leads to radical changes in the way the municipal departments operate in local self-government units so far, since under that provision, municipal redistribution would now implement the procedures for awarding contracts and charging the use of public areas. The fact that it is a completely separate business, which does not have a supervisory function, which is the basic activity of the municipal directorship. And finally, given that our fellow mayors and mayors, from all parties and even from HDZ, have criticised this law, I have suggested, together with my colleague Mark Vedligaj, that even before including the final bill in the procedure, an opinion be obtained and that it be delivered to us in associations of the towns and associations of the municipality of the Republic of Croatia, but on the proposal of the law, and not on what was in the public debate, this has been quite changed. Thank you. Here, Ante, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70363	Yeah. Thank you very much. I said you'd be the last speaker, we're giving you more opportunities. We decided to end up in seven and a half for objective reasons, believe me. We only give the opportunity for two more speakers to speak and to thank the promoter at the end of the day. It's about first reading. We'll be able to talk a lot more in the second reading. I would then give the word to Mr. Pranic. They promised to be shorter, so we can end this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70364	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to look back on what maltenes almost all looked back at today's debate. I'll look back at three details. First of all, we all know what is financed from the municipal contribution and the communal compensation. We mayors, the mayors, would like to see that the project documentation of capital projects that are under construction can be financed. So if this provision can be introduced, the financing of the project documentation, because indeed, many units of local self-government, do not have fiscal capacity, literally or finance project documentation, let alone carry out these specific infrastructure works. As for the communal director, I think it's time we had to start living in the 21st century and think about the introduction of e-orders, meaning that certain features of this director that you've now cited that have a minority officer's decision to switch to a certain M.O.P. And the third paragraph, in my presentation, I'm going to focus on Article 131, I don't think anyone looked back today in the debate, it's a municipal infrastructure, and it's recording it in a cadastre and enrollment in land books. We all know what this law defined as municipal infrastructure. It is clearly specified in Article 131 how this municipal infrastructure which is not recorded in the cadastre or if it is not recorded in the land book can be recorded, it is really very good and commendable that we can finally develop this infrastructure through project documentation or other. However, it is not good that Article 6 of Article 31 of all these provisions which you have stated and which would allow us to enter a cadastre and land book were simply killed if that municipal infrastructure was built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. So retailes throughout the Croatian municipal infrastructure, unclassified roads, parking lots, garages, green areas in reality were built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia. So if you drop this article, you will make it easier for all of us to record property legal matters on communal infrastructure that we can later develop and upgrade. And we would really like to see in the municipal infrastructure the definition of the concept of distribution telecommunications sewerage because right now we can really find it difficult to record that sewerage or the DTK network in our property and as such we cannot exercise the right of service in a teleoperator or they collect their own maltene, use the infrastructure, not pay the fees, or if we try to force them to do that is practically impossible mission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70365	Thank you, too. And finally, Mr. Boris Milosevic, here you go, and that's final, yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70366	I've only got four minutes. Here I am also going to try to be short and very, very focused, I won't, I'm going to skip the introduction I thought. So I'm going to hit you right in my head. Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for letting me speak finally. In any event, I would like to refer to this provision, which is the most controversial, which is that the municipal company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and that it cannot carry out any other market economic activity. By applying this provision, I certainly think that, in order to make discrimination against units owned by local self-government, this could be avoided by, as suggested, the local self-government unit would establish a new company which could, therefore, carry out the activity of the economy. I think we should certainly discuss this, whether the proposed solution we are in breach of the Constitution and on the other hand, the fact is that municipal companies have a monopoly on the performance of municipal activities. This is not at all controversial, and I think in fact that no one is slowing down that monopoly, and in fact, the citizens are glad, they trust in municipal societies, they don't want societies that will primarily be a profit target, but essentially a quality utility service. In my opinion, this solution would then be half-way. It should go to an overall solution which, whether or not, should remain as it is now, so that public companies owned by units of local self-government can also exercise economic activity or prohibit units from establishing or operating economic activities in any variant. Because as it is now proposed, this newly established company will anyway be owned by units of local self-government, so the ownership structure will be the same only we will actually cause units to cost the new director, the new management and the question of whether it would be commercially and just sustainable. The second thing I wanted to do was look at the consensus given by the resolution minister if the local self-government unit decides to declare a communal activity by its decision, some activity to declare communal. I think we already have the current solution, i.e. the current laws, which is the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government gives a solution to this issue and without introducing this agreement, which is that when a unit makes such a decision and so the Office of the State Administration and Resolute Ministry are doing supervision and although they believe that something that is not a communal activity that the unit of local self-government has declared will simply suspend that decision. As far as municipal fees are concerned, there are no major changes, but what is important to point out that the law no longer stipulates that the content of the decision also contains criteria for the exemption from municipal compensation, there is no exemption from the communal contribution. I mean, if we leave every unit of local self-government to base my own decisions of my representative body to adapt both the communal fee and the communal contribution to its opportunities, then we should also allow for the release because we have a lot of people living without adequate roads, living without electricity, without water, without organised waste, people living in these settlements from small social benefits and pensions, so for them should provide for the possibility of getting rid of such payments. As far as communal directors are concerned, I think it's quite said today. I agree with one part, in any case, the communal directors perform a wide range of affairs, perhaps even commit a special law to the communal directors, introduce education. They may be able to legitimize people but they won't be able to apply force. And in that sense, and it's a good thing I can't apply force, and in that sense, I think they need a lot more attention. Finally, I would only mention a provision relating to the cemetery, according to the Law on Cemeteries, they are a municipal facility owned by a unit, so I believe that all cemeteries are owned by a municipal unit, so this provision confuses me regarding religious cemeteries, i.e. cemeteries owned by units, religious communities, and that jobs are carried out, entrusted to non-profit associations. I'm sure and I believe, and so it's in practice that we have such situations on the ground, but here's why we may now be trying to legalize them, we need to take a good look at whether this is the right way, maybe, but the promoter needs to talk me out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70367	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to say something or welcome these five MPs along with me who are left? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70368	The esteemed ladies and gentlemen who have stayed until the end, the whole day of the debate is very interesting, quality, all that is in the capabilities and frameworks of this law. Therefore, not in other laws, we will include everything that is constructively involved further in the discussion and most of the debate was related to the balance between market and municipal action. Certainly this balance will be set up by the public debate and this House of the High, so we expect further cooperation and I thank you for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70369	Thank you very much. We'll continue at half past ten tomorrow, at 9.30 with a proposal, first I close the debate, of course and will vote when the conditions are met, it won't be tomorrow. We continue with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework in the first reading, at 9.30 p.m., be here in a larger number and you can leave, you don't have to stay any longer. Session adjourned at 7:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70370	Proposal for a Law on the municipal economy, first reading, P.Z. No. The 264th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on the municipal economy, second, any objections and proposals, will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 3 abstentions and 36 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Representatives Arsen Bauk and Marko Vesligaj have proposed a conclusion which reads: The proposer is tasked with obtaining and delivering the opinion of the association of cities and associations of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the proposed conclusion, with us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Honorable Željko Uhlir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70371	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed conclusion shall be adopted by the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-08-0.u70372	Since the conclusion is accepted, then we do not need to vote on it, or should. Then let's go vote, so I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. In agreement with 115 votes, it was concluded that he was proposed by counterpart Arsen Bauk and counterpart Marko Vedligaj. And now there are four hands. I didn't see the exact order, so we'll let the lady go first. Comrade Jerkovic, here you go.
