ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92404	Followed by a statement on behalf of representatives' clubs, four clubs have registered for the time being. The first club of MPs to take a stand is the Club of HNS Representatives, on their behalf, will speak MP Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92405	Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the reason for my address is a series of unargumented attacks and personally against Minister Divjak, and so is not carrying out curricula reform. The fact is that scientist and professor Blaženka Divjak, the first minister to lead education reform to the classroom, are facts. I'm going to go ahead and try on my colleagues, who have criticised and answered certain questions. Bridge colleagues say the HNS has privatised education reform. I could thank you for that, but I will say just one thing, the HNS has created assumptions, the political framework has given to the Minister Divjak, hundreds of professors, teachers, scientists working on the reform they are conducting. The word reform, when you pronounce it, it has the diametric opposite meaning of what the reform is in principle, and you had the opportunity for two years in the government to confirm. The HSS party that I think still has the slogan of Faith in God and the peasant style, criticises and says, you fool people because religious science is in schools. And I tell them that they insult the believers and their choice. Equally such a religious teaching as an electoral object has nothing to do with the Ministry of Science and Education, it is the consequence of interstate Vatican contracts or you do not know or knowingly manipulate the public. He would tell his colleagues from CROATIA as much as they try to argue with things, that our children will not be taught that the country is a flat plate and we will not use the curricula in '15, '16. Or I don't know from what last century. What's my kind of disappointment, it's primarily what GLAS is like a party that positions itself on some liberal left spectrum with a lot of cynicisms instead of "The School of Life" calls and criticises life for school. I can only tell them that this September, if they don't know, "The School of Life" went to 74 schools and certainly it's a historic step, whatever they think of it. Why am I saying this? I may be a little too strict, however, but something happened in this assembly about educational reform, and they're still missing, in this group of colleagues from the Living Wall, so maybe since the Amsterdam coalition obviously didn't come up with an idea, maybe to form a coalition of chaos. The fact is this, Minister Divjak and hundreds of professors, teachers and experts are working on reform and, yes, it was politically made possible by the HNS, whatever you think of it. My colleagues and colleagues have won... The profession will continue to work on reform as long as the HNS is politically in charge of it and we can only tell you that our children in the HNS are neither left nor right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Petrov: My colleague, please, Agent Beljak, you will have the opportunity to take a break.]] HNS and this government have created and created an education system that will drag Croatia forward. And that's why colleagues and colleagues are not left or right, so go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92406	We are going to the last debate, on behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, respected colleague Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92407	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats, as a liberal party, of course we support and represent freedom of speech, the right to opinion, the expression of opinion, the public speech, but equally, we will always and now condemn those who do the opposite. Article 38 of the Constitution guarantees us exactly that right so that we can speak freely and express our thoughts through public appearances and here in the assembly, and in society, but equally art. 39th of that same constitution says otherwise. It even cursingly prohibits certain phenomena, spread hate, hate speech, but what it would like to point out, encourage and call for any form of insufferableness. Did we ever wonder what the word "insufferable" means and how it comes to that word? Of course, the Constitution cannot specify the ban, tell lies. The constitution does not prohibit manipulation. Manipulation, lie, we can qualify them as tools to promote intolerance. Here, I'm going to give a very mature example, which in some way encouraged me to, on behalf of the club, present the position of the club, not only on this subject but also on the general situation in society, and I think I also appeal to all of us here to stick to not only the letters of the Constitution but to not be ourselves who encourage insufferableness. On Monday, the Istanbul Convention entered into force, I do not dispute who was against, the one who was in favour. Everyone has the right not only to be based on the articles of the Constitution but also as a liberal, gives everyone the right to express their views and to have an opinion on it. But what I want to point out is that twisting the truth or lying is something that's unacceptable. And we like people who talk in public space that we should refrain as much as possible. Namely, by twisting the truth of the lady, you will allow me to read because I do not, I do not know her so much, Christine Pavlovic, the HRAST Initiative Truth about Istanbul, which says that it is the Istanbul Convention that changed the content of the testimony where there is no, so in the testimony so students get at the end of the school year, no more sex and no parents' names in June, because of the Istanbul Convention. Well, ma'am, she told a notorious lie. The argument is that a year ago, even more than 17 May 2017, the regulation adopted by the ministry defined what the testimonies would look like at the end of the school year. I don't know who Mrs. Pavlovic is, I can't criticise and I can't, but what's very interesting is that she is more than familiar with it and was present at that press, and she spoke publicly about it and former secretary of state, Mr. Schlezak, whose mandate just passed that rule. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues and colleagues, putting lies in place, creating misinformation, manipulating them as an insufferable tool. I have cited this as one very example that since, I think, last Monday, or last week or this week, and I think that we should all together in the public space condemn such speech and equally appeal to all the media because everyone has the right to the denial and so would beg and appeal to the media that what I'm saying now, that all those who have published this extract from the press, the report from the press, that equally publish what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92408	The next club is the HNS on behalf of which a respected representative, Milorad Batinic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92409	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, although yesterday was a debate on the Energy Efficiency Act, I considered it necessary and in the HNS club to remind me of a problem that is certainly current and will be current especially in the coming period, especially since we have a winter period, a period of heating. This is about the application of the European Commission regulation that no longer allows the sale of classic turbo gas boilers but practically for greater energy efficiency, requires the installation of new generation boilers, etc. condensation boilers. Why do we find this extremely important? Mostly because this problem affects especially the users or citizens living in multi-state buildings. There are about 75 to 100 000 users working somewhere, and of course these are mostly large cities that have gasification, Zagreb, Osijek, I don't know if I know any others. Namely, what's this about? This is primarily the case if you have built-in old gas boilers in a multi-room space, the problem is that the dimodes that are suitable for the old gas boiler do not meet the criteria or standards used by condensation boilers or heating. The assessment is that the replacement could be very difficult to organize in multi-state space, I don't know, on the first, second, or whatever floor, take a ten-story, several apartments, can't install a condensation boiler on an existing system of old chimneys, but all tenants should give consent to change and, of course, participate in co-financing of the replacement itself. It is estimated that this total would cost more or less than 2 billion kuna for multi-state replacement facilities. The fact is that maybe saving through condensation boilers isn't spectacular, somewhere around 3%, but what's a major problem of the security nature of the lives of the citizens themselves, or all those tenants living in those buildings because it can happen, these old water heaters if they break down, you have it, and the whole heating system is on that old water heater, you can't get consent, you can't replace it with the condensation and old water heater, or the old turbo gas heater they call it, you can't buy in Croatia or in EU members. So illegal imports from the country, from non-member countries, and if you black-mount it, you're jeopardizing every single tenant in the housing block. When adopting this Regulation, the fact is, these are facts that Croatia could not participate, the highlighted specificities, however, there is one possibility and one possibility that, if in cases of inappropriate high costs, this is also an assessment of these calculations, an exemption may be sought but this exemption cannot be requested in a sudden manner. So there are deadlines for the application of the regulation as a whole, the delay is possible and it is requested and it is in force, however, we have not solved the problem. And we at the HNS club, on the trail of this, think it's important to talk about it and also find a long-term solution for this problem that all citizens, especially in multi-state facilities, that I consider it important for the Republic of Croatia and its citizens to save through not only energy efficiency but also through certain projects and programmes, whether they will be implemented by resolution ministries or funds, in a way to find the possibility of co-financing in terms of energy efficiency, as well as reducing CO2 pollution is far lower in condensation boilers and sizes, our proposal and our thinking is going in the direction, we will also send a written request to the rest ministries, to find opportunities, measures in the coming years of co-financing of old gas boilers with new condensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92410	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92411	Mr. Batinic in front of HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92412	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I asked for the possibility of free speech to inform the Croatian public once again from this pay phone, and I wish our teachers and teachers both personally and on behalf of the HNS club happy day. Education, as we know, is the key to every society's development. When we talk about teaching teachers, teachers, they are a pillar of each and every one, so there should be such a relationship and we here in the Parliament should be the pillar of our Croatian society. However, what we may not say often enough is that teachers and teachers raise generations of our children, our Croatian children. I believe that, as Parliamentarians, we will all, and the whole society in the next period, not only here after the pay phone, but also in parts to show and prove that we care about the development of Croatia, that we care about both teachers and professors and that we will, in particular, share our laws, the Ministry of Rules prove what I am saying. The goal, especially for us here, will be the state budget for the next year and projections, and will be to raise our hands to this end when the government's proposal, i.e. the rest of the ministry, comes in and out of the far greater funds needed, not only for wages, but also for all that is necessary in achieving and continuing the project at this stage, and in particular the curricula reforms, because the reforms will not be and cannot be without teachers, without teachers, and in fact that is their work and their reform. Dear teachers, professors, I wish you one more happy day, and we here in the Parliament, I think I can be so free to speak not only in the name of the HNS club, but also of all MPs, we will surely support all efforts of the Resord Ministry and Government to make it better for all of us together in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92413	Thank you, too, Mr. Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92414	We're going to the 9th debate, dear colleague Stephen Curaj on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92415	I thank the President, dear colleagues and colleagues, today I would like to take this opportunity and remind you all that today is International Day Against Poverty. What's worrying is that every year before this day and on the day itself, it's statistics that aren't great even this year. So almost 20% of the population in Croatia is in danger of poverty, 10% of the population cannot afford 4 out of 9 basic material goods for life. Almost 28% is on the verge of poverty, so 1.2 million kuna. Only comparisons in the EU have been estimated somewhere around 112 million people who are just at and at risk of poverty or at the edge. When we speak on the edge, it means after all the social benefits are given. What does that tell us? That it's about time, already what they say, it's been 5 to 12 for us all to move forward and ruling both the opposition and the local community, all of us, self-government and get into really the 5th speed of reform, of the bill, of what it can bring us. Let's just say one of the most proselytic examples. We had here a debate on the new tax, a proposal for new tax laws and Croatia, now a new data will come out on the scale doing business, quotes, I think 51st place, when there was a reduction of property tax from 5% to 4%, it is one of the elements that directly affects Croatia's rank on that scale. Now we have a proposal to go to 3%. That's the kind of thing. Of course, one such thing won't bring us anything, and that's why everyone needs to put in the 5th gear and do everything the citizens expect of us in the next two years. When we talk about our resources that the HNS is leading safely that some of the things in the last year and a half are, no matter what people think and whatever they think of us, I give the right to have everyone's opinion but the facts and results are irrefutable. And you can hate HNS, but the results are there. If we talk about education, we have yesterday's report, or the European Commission's day, where it has just praised Croatia for its efforts in educational reform that we know have been standing for years. There we are, somewhere to be commended. If they had let us down, it would have been out of these ten debates today, surely five of them would have talked about it, so come on, it doesn't matter. But it has to do with our children, it has to do with everything we're talking about. The going school for life, the laws on vocational education have enabled them and will enable a billion kunas of European funds to go to that deficit labour market to really start producing people who are competent, who will bring that added value, and that is precisely one of those reasons that we all need to pursue, so just one thing when we talk about pension reform, tax, a series of housing laws, etc., can't make any difference but such 50, 60 things, it will, indeed, show statistics. But the best statistics is exactly what we're saying, that people live better. When we talk about the Department of Construction, 8,000 POS apartments, nearly 20,000 young families, we also have their testimony that they haven't left, that they've been given the opportunity to solve their housing issues here cheaply, and that's why they're here. Of course that doesn't apply to everything, but I say once again, on all sides, everywhere for a little better society and for as little poverty as possible. Because this data, no one can tell me that someone lives well with 5, 6, 7, 8000 kuna household income. Well, that's survival. What are we talking about? That's why people leave. Because they don't want to survive here and say here I have enough to buy all those nine basic things that I can survive and not 4/9, but 9/9. I can buy it, but they're still leaving. That's why this new tax reform. We are the ones who have proposed that even the most highly educated with the highest wages continue to remain there, not after they gain their education, which they gain experience, go for twice as much pay somewhere. And so once again, it's really high time to get into speed five and move forward, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92416	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92417	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92418	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have seen and heard in the media, today is 2 years and half of the term of office of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, which after 8 months. HNS is also connected. What's in this period that I'm going to talk about, which is the last year and four months. Made, I think every... We have suffered and I will even say justifiable by the citizens and expected, figuratively said beatings because it was not an easy decision for anyone safe, I think it should be clear everywhere but sometimes, some of your own feelings should be put aside and look at the wider interest because we do not believe that another decision would be different, that anything better would be better for Croatia, so ultimately for the HNS... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In these years to two or a few days, we have made it possible only in the education sector and to do more than in the past 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that some of this hurts not because it's done well but because it's done by the HNS and made it possible, in fact, because it's done by professional people not by party, fact. Today, it may well begin symbolically for 30,000 professors who will apply full curricula reform next school year. It is experimental in force, fellow objectors are not complete for some reasons that are unknown to me, so they say too quickly, so it's not fast, so slow, so it's not mostly slow to seek sometimes as we in the people know how to say "hair in the egg". It's experimental in force just to determine that it's going into that full application, to see all the advantages and flaws or system failures, a new way that's very difficult to change something, not what's 20, 30, but what's 50 years in our head and the way we think about it, and there's definitely gonna be some more difficulties, problems, it can always be better, so of course, but if you're afraid to change anything that you're going to make a mistake, you'll never do anything in your life. We weren't afraid at the price and of our kind of ratings that... It wasn't anything then, but no one can say that today a billion kunas in vocational education, it's experimental in 74 schools, we had this week just the Copyright Act where we fixed something that I don't know why 20 years of waiting, helped blind people to actually lift their copyright on books with Braille's letter and again something's wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Student affairs, we've heard some amendments here today, why it hasn't been done before, it's done now. Something that might be better, it'll get better, but it's positive steps. In the construction sector, 13,000 homes are secured by our fellow citizens, some of them say this isn't, we'd be gone. Energy renovations, billions of them. Nearly 2 billion more have already been fired, 250m euros are required of European funds to invest, repair the construction sector as well. So, we're working, working on a series, I'm sure HNS is offering this government that we would never adopt the Istanbul Convention. D might have some, I won't say, some ugly word but certainly not a progressive family law that we... I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what you're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Peace reform, that's what I'm gonna end up with. All we hear are objections, I., II., pillar, we kept quiet, we didn't media out, we sat down, we gave constructive our proposals, we negotiated with our partners how it should be, we kept and strengthened II. It's a post. Well, that's what we're gonna do with this penalization, too, I'm sure. Minister Pavic has an exceptional ear for all good proposals, in the end, and I believe that will be improved as well. Now it's no longer a problem II. Column, now the problem is retirement at 67 years old which moved away by 4 years. So it's not that problem, it's something that needs to be made possible for people, I believe there are just a lot of members of those same unions who would like to stay in their jobs because unfortunately their pension is too small, that's the main problem. And they... The other 65, but don't punish those who have a lot of internships, and we'll certainly try to make it right, that they're over 40 years old to get someone... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92419	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude today's session by seeing you again on Wednesday, October 24, at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 13.46 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92420	Next on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club is counterpart Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92421	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's an opportunity for a free speech to say something positive about what happened in the very close past. In fact, the positive changes in science and education that take place primarily thanks to the work of Minister Blaženka Divjak and her team, last week, received international confirmation through two excellent news. First, the European Commission praised ambitious reforms in education and second, Croatia exists in part of the world's largest scientific laboratory CERN, which opens up a great opportunity for our economy, as well as scientists. Very briefly, to remind the meaning of the last year, three reform processes have been launched for curricular reform of general education, reform of vocational education and changes in higher education. 74 Croatian schools, a programme of schools for life, legal changes in vocational education, opened up the possibility of reforming vocational education and thus finally aligning it with the labour market. It is actively working on new programming contracts between the Ministry of Science and Education and higher schools. To remind you, 8,000 new scholarships were provided for students, for the first time in 3700, 3400 stem scholarships per year for stem areas and motivation students to enroll and study study programmes from the stem area. Over 370 million kunas are secured for the scientific centres of originality, about a billion kunas from European funds for scientific equipment and infrastructure. The conditions for the employment of 350 young scientists and their stay in Croatia have been ensured. Croatian science has received one great opportunity and recognition, which is a confirmation of Croatia's entry into the prestigious scientific society of CERN's largest and most respected research centre in the world. This way Croatia enters the scientific elite, new opportunities are opened for Croatian scientists, teachers and teachers. It opens up absolutely all the educational opportunities that CERN offers, from various programmes for students to doctoral programmes, new opportunities are opened, what we consider to be particularly important and opportunities for Croatia's innovative industry, the possibility of participating in CERN's bids worth up to 500 million euros per year, where business processes can be significantly improved, especially in the IT sector and the creative industry, and thus access to a completely new market. And the summary, so the CERN membership opens the door to the economy, the country's technological development, it's not just a matter of science, it can also be an economic stopper. The World Economic Forum's report notes that everything is divided into countries, which will catch up with the 4 industrial revolutions and those who will not. We want and we need to be one step ahead of those who aim and develop technologies and completely new industries. It would be devastating for Croatia to stay on the wrong side of the so-called Iron curtains. All these results, which are significant and measurable, have finally created a framework, that in our schools, universities, in our scientific community, education, which will provide young people with opportunities to achieve their ambitions, as well as to stay in the Republic. Both colleagues and colleagues are especially here in the Parliament, but all of us, as citizens, are calming down ideological debates and we have nothing left, left or right, one excellence and entrepreneurship can pull our society forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92422	We're going to another debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92423	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, first of all, I would like to point out in the interest of the public and a small number of representatives present here and draw attention to the fact that today we had a vote in our first reading on the Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, which was mostly adopted. However, it is clear what certain clubs or representatives were against and did not accept this proposal for a law in the first reading. First of all, this proposal opens a catalogue every year, which can make certain changes if necessary for textbooks in secondary and primary schools. We know that because we had examples when something was showing that there was no good in a textbook. We didn't, he couldn't react at that school year level. Of course, the length of the procedure for approving and selecting textbooks is shortened and simplified by this proposal. What is important is that these draft laws actually pass in the first reading, complementary and auxiliary teaching tools become second educational material, and the decision to use them is made by schools or teachers. What does that mean? We give more freedom to teachers, autonomy in a way that they transfer material as they think and in what extent they are. And of course from which material. Also what is new and very good that will expand the absolutely and very choice of our teachers, and that is the Central virtual repository of educational materials actually where they can get regardless of the selected textbook all textbooks and can be used in this range with all the information that can be used further in their lectures. So the quality of the lecturers themselves or what they teach is absolutely increasing. And these materials in electronic form must not exceed the price of 20 to 40 %, in fact, the price of the books of mandatory items. So that's what you're looking at. What's really important and what's incomprehensible when we look at it, when we talk about the singles and complaints of both parents and the public who were, and you all know that when we see what those first-class girls have to wear in books, and how heavy these bags are right here, despite the opposition of the publishers, some representatives and clubs quoted the same representatives of publishers who fight hard. I'll tell you why. Because it reduces the weight and thus the number of paper needed in each textbook. And it limits their price because it is the democratic or social character of this law. So cheaper textbooks and smaller ones. And now that we look at both the results of the vote and the only debate we've had. When someone explains to me that certain work notes are now being placed as a supplemental tool and can be a choice and do not go into mandatory to reduce the quality of something. On the contrary, more choices are given to the teacher to absolutely choose what he thinks is best in his transfer of knowledge to children. And at the same time, we're making our bags easier and reducing our textbook prices. And now somebody tells me that if someone's against not going on the hands of publishers who are in the interest of being as many papers as possible in one book and as much material as possible, the more extensive it is, of course, the more it buys the very price of printing. That's why it's necessary to say that between these two readings that will be to let the public know what is done and how it's being voted here and I've said it a lot before. I'm afraid this is above all, and these views here today that are clearly voting whether against or abstention it was still against going to our children's benefit, parents, and that's actually going by doing so if this law wasn't accepted for the purely direct benefit of the publishers. And then who's standing in the defense of a little man and who's standing there in the interest of publishers and capital if you want to, so there's... One syntagma to say which many of our colleagues who use large capital or whatever you want. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's clear what happened today and that's what we must certainly correct whether it's HNS, SDP, HDZ, whoever is proposing what's good, we have to have a consensus and certainly all those good proposals that are going to be accepted, believe me, but this is already only when it comes to voting and in the debate itself, it must have fallen a lot of masks already today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92424	Representatives' club Independent for Croatia also wants to state the club's position. Here you are, on their behalf, will be spoken by MP Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92425	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, here again the subject of the neglected Croatian diaspora without which we will not go far. Here, a year ago, signed by Mr Plenkovic, Prime Minister, this foreign and European secretary and the Defence Ministry, Mr. Medved, General Medved, some demands that have not yet been met. It's a legal document for me. Here, one was... A Croat outside the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did it really take 30, 50 years for you, to make... in cooperation with missions outside the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you have some estimates between 3 million and 5 million Croats living outside. They are totally excluded from economic and social development. That's the program, and how long it'll take, we don't know. Here, the new Law on Croats outside the country, the draft is done, when will we apply because by the end of the 10th month, did it take that long? Here. Other information, critical information, the fifth HTV program for the diaspora, what is this program, is this a one-way street? Did our diaspora guys from North America, Australia, Canada get involved in building a better society? Where are those people? We have... professional people out there, we don't have professional people that's proven, we don't have professional people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why the state is where it is, we have former personnel. I've got them, I've seen the proposals of people who've been giving to the former governments, here's a proposal to digitize land books, simply, Canada did it. Not even 5% of the books are digitized. The proposal is for tax reform, which is what you're talking about today. Suggestions for the reconstruction of these counties, that it's getting simpler, it's all rejected and we're doing it the old way. We'll get legal, business and financial security... People like this? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got a bad one so far, it's a bad picture, we're repeating the same mistakes, we're spinning around in circles. At the 11th month, this economic forum is here in Zagreb, and people will come out again on the same issues, three years of bureaucracy for citizenship. Why this? The Croats from the diaspora are undesirable here, they're afraid, like this, these former personnel are afraid of your knowledge, your money power and what's the most patriotism, patriotism. There are mostly anal frames that take more care of their buttocks. It's proven, it's proven long ago just make one superficial analysis of the government since 2000, from '95. beyond what's going on. And today these Croats outside the country are the largest business branch in Croatia. More than all foreign investment. If they weren't there, the pension system would be gone overnight. But they're unwanted, they're undesirable. Here, what about economic diplomacy? What's up with that? ... If you have an investment of $100,000 here in Croatia from America, the ambassador comes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where's our economic diplomacy? What was going on out there? What diplomacy, you had 1,000 unsolved items in Chile and Australia, and some, when people were killed here, some were stealing money and going to public houses there to enjoy brothels, names are known, so much for our diplomacy. But they're careful, those people out there because they've already peeled them for money and they're careful. But unless there's a legal framework for investment, no one's coming. What do we have here today in Croatia? We have a continuation of communism. And what's Communism? Terror each against each and every moment of the godfather's affair, the Agrokor affair. What's going on here? Why, for example, is Australia a completely decorated country? Because that's where people respect laws and pay taxes. But that's where the hiducia got into her head. And what do we have here? We have here former UDBA associates, Communist parties, Masons. I'm looking, some heads I'm looking at here, the peasants are spinning around in the grave. My grandfather is spinning in his grave when he sees some heads here. When he got up here, Mr Bernardic said he should pay back the debt from... from '45. No one was complaining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why was the village destroyed? Why 5% of the land is digitized, rhetorical issues. Like this, you have other people who suffer from alexythmia and... Oh, yeah, he knows, there's Professor Peter's alexite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They act like they're sympathetic to the regiment. In fact, they only care about their buttocks. It's those heads. And nonstop spins that circle and more left, right wing... He's got his back, in the... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and other places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are we kidding here? This is actually another one-party system, and that's where we're stuck, and this is all just a story of reform, of tax. While there are no key reforms and the return of Croats outside the country, there will be absolutely zero of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92426	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92427	It is now up to the Advocacy Club for Croatia, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92428	Dear colleagues, first of last week in the paper, one piece of information came out that I was gone for three days unwarranted from the Parliament, that's a total lie. They got this memo, this appointing committee, until I get an official apology that I'm going to consider to be a deliberate sabotage that it is. The main topic of HVO, here, for the past few weeks again one campaign orchestrated by juzomboids, assistants, mental south Slavena, in the Yugoslav newspapers where former Ubobashi and the South Slaveni against HVO work, why does it bother the people? Like this, when will the truth come out? There's been a lot of talk about this, where are the papers? Here's for one... from an HVO who may not have moved into an unwarranted apartment, justifiably,the whole hack. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not a word of 1,000 taken apartments after '45. where people were killed. 1,000 apartments where people still live today have other properties because real owners can't move in, they have to wait another five years. Not a word in that paper. Here's the newspaper that places that information finds other advocates out there, south Slaven and places those misinformations, here. We have at least 3, 4 working there for KOS and UDBA, you have one in... It's been known for years and it's been spreading hate and misinformation, and nobody's talking about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have Stephen's apartment... The head of the Krapina OZNA, about Macele, where you have three... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The forest, the life in the apartment upstairs in Tuškanac kills 20 gatekeepers, shoots the head, nobody cares about Croatian media, but they are interested in HVO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those six, seven, and some thousands where they're getting a pension from the HVO. Not a word about the Serbian Orthodox Church that has brought an unauthorized party since 2000, said Minister Racan half a billion kuna has won, see, it is the Serbian Orthodox Church. Everyone can practice their faith, let them come here, let them set up a mission, let it be paid by Serbia, not by a Croatian tax collector. They don't mind these party pensions, these partisan pensions, any of the 40,000 years ago, five, six years, inheritance pensions, inheritance pensions, it doesn't bother anyone. It doesn't matter if some of them wanted a party here one, she started the procedure, it was silenced in the main stream media to launch an international court to work in Switzerland to pay off the pensions of people who occupied Croatia's country, pension payments since '91. Until '96. until Croatia's integration into its legal order. It doesn't bother anyone. HVO's a mess. Here's 50 times I said there are no four choir areas of HVO, Mr. Matic, that there is no... Posavina, Central Bosnia, Northwest Herzegovina and Mostar, you wouldn't be sitting here today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There aren't below 400 dead in HVO Bosnian Posavina, below 400 dead in the brigade upstairs. Who cares about 5 hundred 68 HVO suicides from 2006 to 2008 who's counting? And then... in a terrible way burned with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Recently, who knows his name, no one cares. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're interested in the affair of this, inter alia, these, these messages, etc., to no one, no one is interested in the HVO. And what happens to Croats down in BiH, they disappear from BiH. And some of the guys here who win, Yugoslavian Komsic, some of them like, they're glad, they can't say it openly, they're glad. And you're dealing with totally irrelevant things here and nobody's taking care of these people down there. Here, let's go about hunting a little, the Croats are just interested in their money. I'm behind... The troops of the honorable HVO Tomislav City only for '92. For a year we have books of conscious donors, in '92, thousands of about 10 grand were given out of their miserable pay, they're these people, you weren't paying, they were paying for it, there's only '92. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the other HVO donors on the outside? They paid here today for Croatian contributions, in the budget, from the diaspora of BiH Croats. What's this, say, nobody's saying, what about Mia Black? He's blacked out, he's gone and in court he's won, I remember, the newspaper, the captured Dalmatia, you don't want liars, cheaters, thieves, imagine that. The kids threatened him at school. And that hack goes on, that's where he sits... racists and their heirs. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Juzomboids and others who only spit on Croatia, HVO, for no reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 19.10. comes, 19.10. was killed, 19.10. on quota 437 last member of the Croatian forces, not... Tony Dragonja, now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 20km from Banja Luka. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who remembers that? No one. And we sit here and deal with ping-pong balls and verbal diarrhea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92429	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92430	The next Club of Representatives is the Independent for Croatia, on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92431	Dear colleagues, listening to this debate these days, I think we live in Somalia. Of course, the foundations of every healthy state are the health system, the pension system, it has to be fixed. But don't expect the state to do anything, it won't. Where it's mentioned, when two words of individual responsibility were heard. Is the perfect system a health care center? It's not perfect, here, hospital sepsis in the EU 1% per hundred people, 1 per 100 is 5 per 100. Is there any corruption in health care? There is, of course, where are the detailed investigations, and not the words said. Where are the lessons learned, say from the war, one of the seven systems... logistics, where it sat after the war, team and medically and made how best to do triage on the first line, I don't know the generals didn't call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not even fighting tribes, right in the army with a medical profession, this. Here, you have, for example. Patients, our patients have data somewhere, we're patients that come 60% of the people, 70% of the ambulance for no reason. My mother was like that, 89 years old, you've been in pain, you've got nothing else to do but come to the ER, and here you go. You see the order there, again, 60% of people, can correct me because I heard some data that 60% of people don't come to their labs at all, when they're done with their tests, diagnostically, who's to blame? How can we blame a surgeon who did five surgeries a day? He comes home and sits down and he's called by someone there and he has to come back at 3:00 in the morning or when he's asleep. We don't think about these people, we're also part of that system, here. Without it, this system can't function without us, it's a total vacuum and we're just whining. Here, preventive medicine. Here's how many people got in the mailbox preventative checks to come for colon cancer, breast cancer, etc. As many people have come forward, I don't know. We're talking preventive medicine, here's an example of dentists, I've talked to a dentist, two, two people who've been in the profession for 40 years, and they say, from 1-10 grades for school age to high school that up to 1-10 threes, threes. And who's to blame. In Canada at school, in third grade, you see this and the dental floss. Because that's what happens at school, in the army you see the dental floss and this, how do you use it, if our kids, our teeth fall out in six and five years, who's to blame? Is it the medical profession? It's parents and other characters. We've got a third of the threatening children, look what they're eating, a third of the threat, and we're throwing 400,000 tons of food and we say hungry Croats, we're just whining. It's not a one-way street. I'll wash for this again, we'll have enough enemies in Zagreb and elsewhere, I'm proud to be hated by the people I hold in total contempt, there I am proud, and there will be after this fire again, but that's how it is, here you are. I've come here for 300 kn you can perform all diagnostic tests in an hour. You don't have free health care in Canada, Ontario, you pay more GDP 14%, you actually pay the goods tax, and in western Canada you paid 57 dollars a month. What free health care? What's free in this life? Nothing. And finally, there are some people sitting here defending the system that they were building, the former system, where you had, like, a dialysis machine, you had to go to Vinkovci, from Vinkovci to Tuzlo. These people are sitting here today talking about modernization. Then how was it? Well, the last hospital in Zagreb made you Ante Pavelic, and it hurts them too. So what have they done since then? They couldn't make a highway there for 45 kilometers where they pulled the money. These characters can't modernise the state. I can't modernise the state, and it's just a wasteful moaning. We need to raise one level of consciousness and... that individual responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92432	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92433	Now we're going to have a brief statement on behalf of the clubs and we're going to do a little break-up and then we're going to move on with this discussion. First of all, a respected representative named Željko Glasovic appeared on behalf of the Independent Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92434	Dear colleagues, we are now sitting here, meeting the National Council for the Implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, here. I've made some suggestions there that are strictly related to this subject, that's all I have on Face not to talk about. What are the results quantifiable in the fight against corruption? Where's the statistics? According to some statistics, Croatia is the 67th country out of 183 countries in business, here is corruption. 56th of 186 countries, Croatia. That sounds good, but we're the only country below us in terms of corruption, that perception index, and that's Bulgaria. We have come so far that the Transparency International Croatia branch has been abolished by the main organization because that's how something was carried out, thieving. In Serbia, too, this strategy group has been stopped there for corrupt activities. It's that mental set and heritage of that former system. Speaking of Uljanic, today they're screaming this newspaper, 822 million kunas are unauthorized, unintendedly spent. Who's to blame? Is it the government's fault, the IDS, is it the management's fault? Well, of course management. What about 30 billion kunas paid off by shipyards last since '92? Sir? What's here, here. We have people running these state-owned, also state-owned companies to enjoy Monte Carlo's lifestyle and have Balkan working habits. 40% of people are employed in state-owned companies and where are the results? Where are the audits? How many people have been arrested for tax crime, etc.? What about the 100 billion kuna given as an incentive for agriculture? Where's the money, where's the results? 200,000 cows, the O.P.G., to whom that money was distributed and we're talking about Agrokor. Oh... Five hundred thousand million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are the results, here. We have a lot of theorists without practice and we don't have a mechanism to implement that strategy on the ground. You have in 2009, since 2010, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been implemented, it has changed that Give me 10 seconds for these characters. [[Intruder Reiner: Fellow colleagues, colleagues, please at the entrance we can be quieter or, so that fellow Glasnović can say what he thinks, please.]] In 2010, the constitution changed that there was no obsolescence of crimes in privatisation and conversion and this war profiting, so far we have only Sanader, as possible, here. Where the retroactive laws, where the return of property, the confiscated property, the people who stole the state, not only from the 90's, but also, where 3 to 10 years in prison are for officials, public officials who received bribes, minimum 3 to 10 years in prison, and where the confiscation we're talking about, no one's been punished so far. So far, we have that council without any results. In fact, the Criminal Law of the Middle Ages against corruption was better than this one now. There, at least, you were paraded naked, from the center of Zagreb to the Upper city, if you were oiled with tar and feathers to shame the entire regiment here, and today nothing. What is produced from that system? The lack of this control and mechanism, we have Mr Vidosevic and other kleptomaniacs and many others who are still walking around Croatia without any results. We have to decide here today, today, here, this Council is meeting today, we want to continue this self-government anarchy and let us be led by people who are morally and mentally maimed or we're going to spend this, whether we're going to create a modern and legal state. Here's when we talk about the robbery, did he ever mention today, about the tax, I'm asking these lumens here and the others here how much was in the pension fund of the Republic of Croatia in the fifth month of the 1990s, how much money was there? Whoever's talking about $5 billion stolen from Milosevic, that month and another 5 billion after the war, which belonged to all the republics, no one's talking about it. And secondly, for some people who still don't know who attacked them, you had 300 thousand false Partisan pensions only in Croatia that received pensions from 45th onward, is it robbery or not robbery? That's what nobody's talking about, here, is that a robbery? Di's the money, where's the money by the '90s, and now you expect overnight to fill the state budget, that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92435	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Željko Glasovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92437	Dear colleagues, comrades and friends, there aren't many comrades and friends here, screaming tonight's Evening List, screaming measures to bring back the emigrants. How's that supposed to be a new mover law for 30 years? We forget about ourselves, the ones that are... and Croats outside as the extreme right, Ustasha, etc., forget that these Ustasha emigrations are so-called. She was creating your synergy, paying for cottages at sea and saving the buttocks of former communists, here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Only half a billion dollars came from Australia. Half a billion dollars from Australia. And what about the little... Little Tomislavgrad? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thousands and thousands of people put their houses on mortgages, paid defense offices, Swiss francs, German stamps, etc. And what happened after that, you forgot those people, they're excluded from economic and social development and today, I repeat that again. You haven't taken advantage of their potential. Some don't want these people here after billions and billions of dollars being sent here, they don't want them here. And who are these people who don't want them here? Those same old characters. Some have code names like Konobar, Loto, Golf, it's just one list of people who worked for the National Security Service. Today they are shaking the Croatian judiciary, some of them are advisers to this council, the council for the repression, the strategy for the control of corruption, and they are giving lectures to us today. I'm going back to this rag where it's being tried over these newspapers, I don't know who's writing, it's not even signed, it's going to black out Independents for Croatia, some topics, neo-Nazis, Glasnović goes there, there, one thing I'm going to tell them here, a short thing. When I was on the line down there, I had a whole platoon of strangers. From the French to the Germans, some were from the NPD. I was killed by Deputy Jurgen Schmidt of Germany and the other Michael Surowitz of Germany and others, while the communist heirs cooled genitals by their birts and told war stories. That's why I'm going to Germany, not to meet some neo-Nazis, etc., here, you forget it, but for those people who died for the Croatian state and who opposed that, the danger that comes from the east. They don't care about this typewriter, they don't care about that substance, they could call me, they're just interested in putting something in the paper and... Nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, here's what about the logical support that came here from Germany, from those so-called. A neo-Nazi? A million dollars in NTS, materials, weapons, sniper rifles, uniforms. And those left-handed people who created these words that kidnapped that jargon in Croatia, neo-Nazis, clerofashists, Ustashas, didn't rebel too much, who was here when he showed up in Fascism's Square, I would say there should be victims of communism because for the Croats the most injured, they didn't rebel against the Soviet flags, against the Serbs and hammers where yesterday was marking.../incomprehensible/... no one came from.../incomprehensible/... the communists that remembered 7 million Ukrainians killed, by the Bolshevik Satanism, no one came, of which 3 million children, no one came to worry about that, but I'll tell you one thing. Behind this head and the Living Wall have no idea what they're talking about, the war in BiH was not there, and this is how it will come. One told me yesterday the defender, inspired, has no two legs, has lost one hand, he said: When it comes to Croatia then Croatia will be reborn, we have no neo-Nazis here today, I don't know who took the Ustasha oath, and we only have former communists who have not been removed from power and their successors who are now waging a psychological war against the Croatian state at all levels. This is what NGOs do, e.g. Yesterday there was this so-called. Gong, I don't know how many there are anymore, which is paid from the state budget to black out Croatia. They tell empty stories, repeat statistics from the outside, from the media of the international media as historical truth, never mentioned lustration laws, the return of kidnapped property, decommunisation, kidnapping and the largest genocide in Europe, this part of Europe outside the Soviet Union, they never mentioned it, here, and when it comes to this truth Croatia will be reborn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92438	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92439	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, to represent the Independent Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92440	Dear colleagues are heard a lot about school reform and curricula. One short question, how will this system, the new system of education, what kind of man and person are going to produce this new school system? There's a lot of talk about this digitalization, robotics, STEM technology. Here's the digitization, 20 years ago Chile introduced the digitization of public administration 20 years ago. We haven't even done it in court today, here. Also New Zealand, here, you have, for example, Canada introduced digitisation into land books 20 years ago and we still tap in places and other people living in other people's apartments, that's the problem of the former South, I would say to our former speaker here because a state where private property is not respected is not a state and that's how it is today, and that's... confiscation,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] etc. Here. Who mentioned bioethics, morals, if anyone doesn't like religious science in schools... Go away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croats are mostly Catholic people with the tradition of Christianity. There are other peoples whose tradition is Christianity that do not believe in politics correctness, the monster of political correctness, gender confusion etc.. The question of this, again, is the same question whether we have the personnel that can produce this reform, I doubt it, here. We've had years to develop a unique system in the west, for example. By the eighth grade of primary school, people are separated, students, people for crafts, people for technical sciences and for the academy. Not everyone can be Justin Bieber, not even perform at RTL there or Life on the scale. Here, we still live in... society... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have, say, when you translate, translate, it's not the same to translate school manuals for social science, let's say, technical manuals. I was reading some manuals where a man would faint who was doing it, he needed it, I'm not gonna say shoot but at least by the soles. You have an example. Why are some things, some scientific papers blocked in... Not only at that level of elementary schools, high schools, but at colleges. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I keep here the book of a young Mrs. Blanca Matkovic who is... of the research of a thousand 3 hundred pages and this book is called Vrgorska Krajina Makarska Primorje and the Neretva region. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's where you'll see what those former Red Commers were doing. One found his grandfather here because it's... Shoot thousands of people, nothing but heirs to this cultural European Marxism sitting in the Parliament here playing democracy. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you're part of it, you're playing that democracy and you've never changed it, it's just Camelot. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And in the end I'm going to say this, you have a taboo topic that's completely blocked here... And that's the mental set. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Our problem isn't, he's not economic, he's social, he's anthropological. We've dug into these trenches and we can't get out of a system that's promoted a culture of cheating. Remember again when we were talking about the school selling exams, you had a man down at the university, he was a Dean of the Faculty of Economics, he didn't even have a high school, etc. That means what kind of... The man produces this system even though we have robotics, the industrial revolution of the fourth generation, it's all done but we're going to get some kind of moral freaks, we're going to get ideological schizophrenics and so on. honest liars who play democracy plural and in fact remain trapped in cultural Marxism and today sell us floscules, democracies, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92441	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. The first one's a colleague of Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92442	Article 238, Mr. President, I can't agree if you get your shoulders down and say it, and that's Glasovic, let him talk. I can't accept it that way on these grades, calling parliamentary deputies, connecting them to the crimes that have been happening in our past. I don't think it's appropriate with some syntagms of torture, hitting the ceilings, I think we should react to such rhetoric if you react to the mass of other things, you're here, you're silent as water. Here, please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92443	Thank you. I don't respond to any of your statements that are very often inappropriate. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92444	Thank you, Mr. President. He's been injured. Paragraph 240 of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that Mr. Glasnovic should have been taken away from him, given the warning by taking away the words, because at least he insulted other communities, especially those he said himself. And I must say, if there was, I wonder what world history would have looked like if Mr. Glasnović had been a general in the 2nd century. Not in the Homeland War. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92445	Please don't throw away your colleague Glasnović, please don't throw away. I don't think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a free speech, everyone is responsible for what they say. My colleague, Bauk, spoke earlier about the fact that it is the right of every representative to speak the way he thinks it should be spoken. With the many things I hear from you, many things go beyond what I think is appropriate speech, but I haven't given any warnings so far, because of what MPs say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92446	Mr. President, I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, since you have not agreed with me, that the injured Rules of Procedure have asked the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system within 24 hours and I also want you, if you allow me to say, that I did not ask Mr. Glasnović to press charges for slander, as I said about the pay phone, but only to give him notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92447	All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92448	It is now up to Mr. Zeljko Glasnović, who will present the position of the club of the Independents for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92449	Dear colleagues, there's a mantra that says it's easier to create a state than to protect it. That's true. Here, I think that running the state management as well as in the military, standards are the same, they're just different reorganisations and structures. Here, the U.S. Army has formed a center for... The lessons, I think they exist in the Croatian army, but of course the doctrines don't interfere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we were setting up troops in the Homeland War, I saw that it didn't exist in that former JNA system because we didn't have a concierge. And this chamber, the establishment of that staff, in the structure of the military, lowers responsibility, the initiative to the lowest level, it needs to be done here, in each ministry, but we need to create a system of individual responsibility. Here is this manual made in the war, there are procedures for guidance on how to lead and provide an initiative to the lowest level, in war as well as in peace, the most important factors, experience and morality. The judiciary is the foundation of the state we're all talking about, I handed over 24.10. 15 points board, some committees here in Parliament, DORH and other institutions, 15 points how to improve this legal system. Some of the points are erasing unnecessary laws, abolishing red tape. What generates corruption. You have other these simple solutions that could have been spent a long time ago. It is the origin of property and also the confiscation, a better review of tax data, a review of companies that have no operational ability to do anything but are employed there in public tenders and in public works. The blacklist of entrepreneurs who have been blamed under the law should be public so that they can get a job again. I'm not going to read all that, but still the doctrines don't interfere because we have people in that system who grew up from the former system and haven't done that job by now. Here some have pictures of Trotsky and Lenin on the wall and other characters from our ancient past, not so long ago and these are not ideological issues but questions of building a functional state. Why didn't anyone dig a tunnel in the direction of another direction before the fall of the Berlin Wall? People went to functional states. What law rules here? The rule of law. Mantra rule right all the time we hear that. How can we form a state where some laws change 21 times and undefined laws where they can't be interpreted by legal experts. Here, some can't accept these arguments even if we haven't come out of a party system yet. These are not only former personnel, but heirs, from the center of Split to the Slovenian border. That's what hurts when you say it. Here. Some have problems with me and I'd tell them if they had these problems, now I'm going to give them my phone number, here's 091/5168447. They don't have to threaten anyone there on or saying they're gonna kick me off the plug, not the silencer, the silencer. I live in the Engineering Road near the Bus Station, call the number, come to the Independent Club if you have to, here, where I live on Engineer Road No. 2. The 7th floor you have where the camp was, the canal, where the old Zagreb aristocracy went missing. Yes, and who removed them, buried the head of the army, Vlado Ranogajac, who today has a street on Jarun, led the troikas and you have there but is headed there as a sports worker and not an executioner of OZNA. These advocates of this failed system can come to me, we can debate or if they don't, have some other solutions, we can close and what happens. In the end, these people, we saw that they had failed states and, based on false socialism, Cuba Nicaragua, here's Venezuela, we saw what happened to Venezuela. And we saw now and Bolsonaro won Brazil. And the foundation of his political platform was the rule of law because it's a country that has 60 and a few thousand murders every year. It hasn't been established yet by the Socialists or will be done here until we have laws with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92450	Thank you very much for your accuracy, exactly five minutes, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92451	We have another application for a speech on behalf of the Club, esteemed colleague Zeljko Glasnović, Independent for Croatia. Here's my colleague, Glasnović, and besides you, Col. Curaj reported on behalf of the HNS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u92452	Dear colleagues and colleagues, those who go and who stay like this. We see that some topics are blocked in the media, there's censorship. I'd like to see these audio records from the Committee to see what's left out of those records, but some things are systematically blocked. Here, conversion, privatisation has been said for years, and we haven't moved an inch. You have an example. The tourism land law, which has not yet been read, will again cost if it is implemented in the wrong way tens of billions of euros of Croatian tax collectors and Croatian people. And the state. Here, we have the Law on Conversion and Privatisation where all the land and hotel houses that didn't enter the basic capital to belong to the state. What's it gonna be? And what happened before that, we have a dollar for three kunas, someone bought hotels in Dubrovnik, and this property, there's not much to talk about, we forgot, and we closed almost the doors to that legalized robbery process. Evidence, like we treat private property, proves that we're still in another post-communist anarchy. You have the basis of the law of law that says that you have, here, a gift and a purchase contract. The foundation, here, of legal private property. Also, inheriting, that's another way to confirm, here. But he says we have some kind of conservative legal party, democracy. But the foundation, the foundation of right-wing conservatives, not socialist, whose right in this country is the abduction of confiscation, is the rule of law. Private property and protection of individuals and families. We see when it comes to property that it's not like that. Here, we actually got a second one, if we look at this and this is a taboo topic censored in all the media, those who work, halftrons and heirs of this system in the mainstream media, we got another socialist Republic of Croatia. That's what I said today, some of them will laugh at it, but the superficial analysis will show that we've rewritten the laws from that country. They rewritten the laws, here and the entire bureaucratic apparatus has crossed over to this present-day Croatian state and that means they inherited that system, that system of sons and grandchildren of communists. And that communist top actually took it and, she took the property and she legalized those illegal works and today this illegally acquired property. Today I also mentioned that constitution, the 2010 Constitution, which says that this illegal act of conversion and privatisation and war profiting is not outdated. Why don't we get this done as fast as we can? It is a key problem for the security of the Republic of Croatia. Here, I see it now on the Internet, what the last talks other speeches are missing. It's censored. Some of these records were censored, audio records on the boards, but this is what I was talking about. The biggest taboo topic in Croatia is lustration, humane, academic and 3 pillars. And when you say that, you become like a pork chop at Muslim weddings. What else is censored in Croatia? You have selective information from people, these former personnel who have established themselves in all layers of society, into NGOs in the media. Why aren't we talking about decommunization of the judiciary in Poland? He was attacked by the European Union. But we have the biggest problem because there's a lustration there. And so. Until these 3 steps of lustration begin, this means that all information is available on conversion and privatisation. So you have the IRS. We don't need the origin of the property, send the tax administration to those tycoons and others, but we must not forget that this tycunization began not in the 90s but in the 80s. We're not supposed to mention the word privatisation. It had a different name. It was actually a legal robbery. And the root of all the tycoons today are in the former system. Look at the names. Not to mention the names one is now coming here, a tourist from London. So these are the key questions that we have to answer, but as long as this censorship is done in the mainstream media, as long as the people are clouded and the smoke curtains are released, we won't finish our homework.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93829	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] We continue to work, so we will go with a united debate in the following three points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 432 - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Real estate tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 436 - Proposal for a Law on excise duties, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 440 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply. I suggest, before I give my word to my colleague Maras, after the interview and with my colleague Petrov, that by the clubs, future that the united debates may be spoken for 20 minutes. You agree? Okay. Here you go, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93830	Thank you very much. Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I have asked for a break to consult on the whole series, I would say, a law that will not help our citizens too much, and especially about VAT which is problematic and which has reversed hospitality, tourism, in the last year and a half, as regards the increase in VAT from 13% to 25%. What else I wanted to say, in this mess that the government, unfortunately in our country, was said by counterpart Petrov, about these counterintelligence spy actions, which are happening, which are linked to HDZ officials, we instead of regulating the state as it should be, we are trampling on those who are the most valuable and most needy Republic of Croatia, craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Press and blink shut, don't work. Closing every day, all over Croatia, yesterday Koprivnica, today Zagreb, tomorrow some other city, because of 2 or 3 kn are closing for 15 days, people do not have the opportunity to make money, they do not have the opportunity to organize, due to mistakes, I said, 2, 3 kuna because he did not trigelt remove from the register. It's horrifying, you're dealing with people by setting up our country, not getting the most involved in government circles like it's always when HDZ's in play, not closing the flower shop because of a margarette in Koprivnica. I will give you the Margarette, as a symbol of the closure of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so you never do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93831	Thank you for the break by 10.05. It's 10:00.55. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS]] So I said what laws we'd discuss. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and I would now ask the proposing representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Minister of Finance, Honorable Zdravko Maric, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93833	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a great pleasure for me today to be back here with you in the assembly, I will say and honor, to present a package of amendments to the 9 tax laws according to schedule and order as you yourself have decided and agreed. Something we at the Ministry of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia call and we believe with the right name and full name that this is the third round of tax and administrative discharge under a single tax reform, a tax reform that took place, that is, on which the big business was done in 2016 and with which we started to implement with the beginning of 2017. So one single tax reform, and given its continuity and so on these nine tax laws, i.e. amendments and additions, allow me to give in this opening work exactly that one whole, comprehensive view of the complete tax system and of the tax reform. I'm going to have to go back a few steps, of course, at a time when we are and why we're going into tax changes. On the one hand, there are, of course, aspects that are extremely important from the perspective of the overall objectives, strategies and all that is related to the conduct of economic and fiscal policy. I don't have to remind you, but I still think it's good and in some way that we should say right at the very beginning, because it's also one of the important elements of today's debate, and that's the state of the overall fiscal policy and public finances. Public debt that has reached a level of over 85% of gross domestic product in certain years, both crisis and post-happiness, where even the exponential rate of public debt growth has been recorded, as a result of both the result or result of high deficits, i.e. the disproportionate between income and expenditure of the state budget, i.e. the general government budget. Such a situation in public finances was one of the main reasons why Croatia has entered the so-called so-called EU membership since its very beginning and formal membership. The excessive deficit procedure is also one of the main reasons why the credit rating agencies dropped our credit rating on two occasions. We, as a government, have made it very clear that we are taking fiscal policy, that the simple direction, and that the objectives of fiscal policy must be primarily targeted as an instrument and as a basic mechanism for the management of the overall economic policy, which is to promote economic growth and employment, i.e. raising the standards of Croatian citizens. However, we also need to look at a kind of isolated area of fiscal policy and public finances and, therefore, it was inevitable and necessary to go through fiscal consolidation, and I think you know very well that in the first period of 2016 significant results have been achieved, and for the first time in our more recent history, the share of public debt in the gross domestic product has been reduced, and this has been a milestone that marked the further continuation of fiscal policy management in 2017, and according to the results we will soon present here in the Croatian Parliament, given the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months. With great certainty, we can say that this continuity continued in 2018. So we certainly cannot ignore this framework and we cannot leave it out in any way because tax policy certainly plays an extremely important role both in the economy and in society as a whole, but of course also in the conduct of public finances and fiscal policy itself. As far as these starting points are concerned, to sort of go down a little bit more detail or a little closer to the tax policy itself, what of the things that we have characterized even in 2016, in which way and how we would like to see the tax system in the time ahead, which is then three basic characteristics, that the tax system be more simple, on the other hand, to be more transparent, and also to be fairer. And finally, we have a tax system that, together with the overall legal system, will be much more stable and for the benefit of all our entrepreneurs, existing, future, all investors, domestic, foreign, existing, future and of course all our citizens, or taxpayers. I'm also going to ask myself again why we went into tax changes in 2016 at all. There's a few key reasons, I'll give them a heads-up. On the one hand, there are, of course, assessments and comparisons of the international Republic of Croatia with other countries both in the environment and of course across the EU. One of these comparisons showed and showed that Croatia in certain segments has a high average tax burden, in some ways very clearly suggested that it was necessary to move with a tax discharge measure, but again, let's not ignore what I said earlier in 2016, which was found and public debt at an 85% rapid level growing in the years preceding that, deficits, at that moment that is remembered by more than 5%, so 17 billion kuna per year. On the other hand, the European Commission's assessment, rating agencies, international monetary funds and other analytical houses, the relevant institutions have shown that there are a very large number of tax reliefs in the Croatian tax system, exemptions, reductions, something called Colloquitically tax expenditures. Something that, on the one hand, I'll make very clear, I'm sure all the previous finance ministers and all the governments that proposed them had a good intention. I have no doubt that someone suggested something out of some bad intention. However, a number of reliefs and exceptions create great complexity, the complexity of the tax system and make it difficult, I will call something the passing of the tax system, complicate life if you want tax authorities but even more tax bonds. It's something we've also identified as a potential problem that we need to start solving. The Republic of Croatia was also among European countries where the impression of tax uncertainty among entrepreneurs was among the highest. We have followed and watched and we are all good and we can say so many research among entrepreneurs when they list and cite what are the main reasons why and what are the main obstacles to investment, business, employment and so on. Always among the first three reasons is guidance among other things and tax instability, uncertainty. Frequent changes to tax regulations that were visible and known but at the same time I will say even more important than that changes that were inconsistencies and inconsistencies with each other. This is what very often the taxpayers rebelled, the entrepreneurs deterred from some business ventures because we all know well as taxpayers and as citizens if you look personally and individually we always do our own plans. But also entrepreneurs know very well that they work at least for the next 3, 5, 7, often 10 and more years. So these are elements that those among other things take into account. This tax instability has led, among other things, to the fact that we have also had a situation with vague and inconsistencies of legal provisions that are even among tax advisers, for people who deal with tax regulations on a daily basis with a lot of doubts, i.e. in some way misunderstandings, i.e. a difficult understanding of whether this or that is in effect. We have also led to the fact that and we can say so and there are insufficient knowledge of the tax system, frequent changes so many times and too often change something that neither taxpayers nor citizens are sure what is currently in place. Finally, it is also a matter of tax authorities, tax administrations, customs services, all those responsible and in some way involved in the implementation of these legislations, and that is also the high administrative burden of the tax administration. On the one hand, it was either a resultor or a result of the fact that the tax authorities were not an adequate service to entrepreneurs and citizens. It's something that we've been communicating since day one, and I'm sure that even today, during the debate on that element, we're not going to say polemics, but we're going to bring arguments to each other. So, among other things, we will see that this was one of the key intentions of reducing the administrative burden of the tax authorities not to make life easier for them but to make life easier for taxpayers above all. We also had several cases of unequal and unsettled treatment of tax authorities. In specific cases, on certain items of investment nature or other business ventures, you have, say, different opinions of the central authority of the tax administration and, say, the exposition of this or that. Why does that happen? So when you follow the subject both of them and each other, the body is right because I read the legal provisions, since these legal provisions are not consistent, they are not fully defined that it should be actually that you have a different understanding at the end and unequal, unarranged treatment. These are some of the key elements why we said in 2016, let's first and foremost base this knowledge, on the basis of these if you want both recommendations and international and domestic institutions to launch a major process of tax reform. First of all, in the Ministry of Finance, we formed an expert working group in which we included representatives of the profession as general in terms of macro-economy, finance, so scientific and professional community, colleges, institutes, representatives of all known, everyone, I would say people of course in this segment and with pedigre and at the same time of course included people who are professional public dealing with taxes on a daily basis, tax advisers, accountants, auditors, all those who are considering the tax system and day-to-day guide it, or working for their clients, whether for entrepreneurs, of course on a daily basis, see how and how they meet these problems. The process lasted seven months. 7 months we've been working on it, and all of these findings that I've now apostropheed here, I can say that it's supported to the greatest extent, and it's kind of confirmed. And in some segments even an additional boost and actually the result was very clear that it was necessary to move on to tax changes. In the first segment, you remember well, in the first round of tax discharges that came into force in 2017 we had 16 laws and about 30 sublegal acts that were subsequently passed. It all came into force on 1.1.2017 or a large majority of the provisions, one part of the provision is with 1.12018. Where did we put the accent back then? In the Croatian Parliament, I was then speaking in the context of both first and second readings. Here I will also remind the parliamentary representatives who have long range of mandates representatives in the Croatian Parliament that they also, I am sure they do not always remember that tax changes went through the regular procedure of the Croatian Parliament in two readings. Not a small number of times were emergency procedures where something was changing, so the first round, and this one right here, we're going with a regular procedure, we're in front of you today as part of the first reading of these nine laws. So in the first round of tax discharge, the greatest emphasis was placed on discharging the so-called so-called. direct taxes, income tax and profit tax. And that's when I was talking, so I'm going to do it again now to remind you which were the main reasons why we were headed that way. Because the scientific and empirical and the practical knowledge that there will actually be a positive return effect on taxpayers, on citizens, on entrepreneurs and, if you want to in the end, the total economy or public finances. The distribution of income, above all, through the rise of the untaxable work and its harmonisation, because by then we had 4 different types of non-taxable income or untaxable deductions, not the introduction of additional progressions along with dependent members or children, something that may not have been so apostrophysed in the debate at the time, although I was defending those laws, it constantly apostrophyd that it was one of the others and of the demographic measures that recognized the precisely greater need and greater, so it is called, the tax recognition of the abstentioned members, or the main children. The tax exemption in income tax for a good part of the citizens meant, of course, an increase in their incomes as well as that of both this pay and the Assembly, and in some other frameworks we have appealed to entrepreneurs, that the tax dispensation should be translated into an increase in the net salary of taxpayers or employees, but we have spoken then and we have certainly spoken and it will be mentioned very often today, there was no guarantee that this would necessarily occur because there were cases among other things where entrepreneurs used the story and corrected gross wages on the lower and left to their employees, it is true. However, according to all the information, according to all the information and in the final and official statistics conducted by DZSS and HZZ, it is evident that there has been a higher average net salary growth compared to gross salary growth, which means that these tax changes have shifted to Croatian citizens' incomes. The resultant meant that today we have a situation that a million and a half Croatian taxpayers on income tax are not in income tax scissors of 2 million and 700, we also count on our pensioners. Also one of the key measures of the first plague, I personally presented it, as one of the strongest, was the reduction of the profit tax rate for all entrepreneurs from 20 to 18, and precisely for small and medium, which, among other things, was apostrophealed from 20 to 12. This 12% today about 85% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia pay, with a wave of so-called small and medium-sized people who have annual turnovers of 3 million kunas. Moreover, certain changes in the tax system n added value, and in this first round of tax discharge, we have already apostropheded how and how we see the system of value added tax. The value added tax system, which is a regressive tax, we all pay it equally unrelated to the income level of the property we have, and then in that first round, we reduced the value added tax rate for the supply of electricity, for the transport of garbage, so some of the categories where citizens mostly have lower incomes in relative relations to their monthly annual consumption are more relevant. So they also feel these tax changes in their not directly but in their income available. Also, there has been a change in the sense of taxing the inputs in agricultural production and you'll see through what I'm about to present, there's one consistency, consistency with the previous changes we've made. The first round of tax changes in the total total from a static perspective meant a tax-discharge of up to 2.3 billion kuna. In the second step with changes that came into effect with 1.1.2018, additional billions and 300, so all together in the first and second circles somewhere around 3.6 billion kuna. Today we are ahead of you to propose, in the context of the first reading, an additional tax charge which, with all these nine laws according to our calculations, means an additional 2.7 billion kuna of additional discharge. In this way, in these 3 years, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, citizens and entrepreneurs will be disbursed in total with more than 6, i.e. exactly 6.3 billion kuna, and that is among other things, and they will hear you in my opening words, and certainly during the debate something we do not plan on and we do not want to stop, or that direction of tax discharge to continue. Given the specific three points that we have today in this first round and in the first call so part of the united debate, these are the proposals to amend and supplement the law on value added tax, excise duties and real estate tax. I'll start with VAT, and I'll say it's probably the strongest measure in this cycle of tax discharge. Once again, Croatian citizens more than half of them are currently not in the income tax system or are not scissors, excuse me, are not in the income tax system scissors. Given the amount of their income that stands for the lowest of course because below average is in itself in some way understandable what I'm saying, and on the other hand we have relatively and absolutely high untaxable parts and mainly for the abstentioned members. These taxpayers in the tax system are the only ones where you can identify the system of value added tax, and therefore we are correcting it, or we are proposing to change it. Which segments? We suggest lowering the value added tax rate from the existing 25 rates to 13. I will define their full name here, but during the debate, I am sure to lead more with reduced terms, so on children's diapers, on the delivery of live animals, meat and edible clown products, fish and crabs, mollusks and other waterless inks, edible vegetables, roots and nuts and the delivery of eggs from individual nomenclatures, or their tags. So what are we putting an accent on? We place an emphasis on food, on fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit and vegetables, eggs and live animals, thus rounding the whole cycle and also putting on one extra measure since there were very many appeals of mostly younger families, of course, mothers with children related to the diaper segment. Why the food with this already mentioned earlier, the apartment, the supply of electricity and the transport of garbage. These are two categories where we all, of course, have in our monthly and annual costs a certain percentage and a certain absolute amount that we spend on these segments, but mostly citizens with the lowest incomes in relative amounts and relationships actually spend the most on these segments. And this particular segment is important in apostrophe of what we call reducing the regression effect and impact of value added tax. At this point, these are the fiscal capacities and capabilities we have. However, what I have just said and announced, we in the Government are very clearly thinking that even during the period that follows we continue this course and today, we have a perspective today, and we also have the possibility of having the whole of food at this reduced rate and raising among others an additional stimulant and a domestic agricultural, food industry, but also ultimately, the highest sense of taxpayers or citizens. You will ask me and we will ask each other if this will be the result of this being a reduction in the prices of these products and products and we have said 2 basic elements countless times. On the one hand, it is a market, a highly competitive market for retail food products, and on the other hand, this is not a small change. This is reducing the value added tax rate from 25 to 13. As far as value added tax is concerned, a few more changes. Harmonisation with EC requirements regarding the abolition of the 50% deduction threshold for passenger cars and the right to pre-tax for vessels and aircraft. You remember well that at one point that provision was lifted. It was a stand still clause when we joined the EU and we were obliged to, among other things, communicate this provision with the EC. This would, in some ways, be one of the main appeals of entrepreneurs and small, medium, large to return this pretax. We introduced him, but then we put a limit of $400,000. Now the EC has said that, in accordance with the directive, we must remove it. As regards registrations to the VAT system, bonds which in the previous or current calendar year have made deliveries worth more than 300 thousand kuna, this is the threshold for entering the VAT system, the entry into the performance system no more than next year, but from next month. I think you'll recognize why and how we designed this measure and who it was directed at among other things. As far as simplification is concerned, we have one application of a special taxation procedure for so-called. electronic services and, up to the amount of 77,000 kuna, electronic services are taxed in the Member State of establishment, thus the taxpayer may decide not to apply that threshold. There are also certain adjustments to the treatment of foreign taxpayers who have Croatian VAT identification number. I will repeat once again, the main measure of these changes in the VAT system is to lower the general VAT rate and there is the greatest fiscal effect towards our calculations, the simulations we have done. Believe me, as I presented here in 2016, we have done a lot of simulations as to how and how, in the context of existing fiscal possibilities, as many food segments as possible and thus enable all of this to be explained. The total effect is about a billion and 400 million kuna. As far as the Realty Tax Act is concerned, it is in its scope and as regards the total number of measures we propose much simpler, we can say shorter. However, what is a key measure is to lower the sales tax rate of real estate from the existing 4 to 3. I'll remind you that in the first round of tax discharge and tax reform we've already reduced from 5 to 4, here in this second round we're going from 4 to 3. It is estimated to be somewhere between 90 million and 100 million kuna in terms of the loss of the general government's budget revenue. In this particular case, local and regional self-government units are involved, since they are users, so local self-government is the beneficiary of this revenue. And it's the last draft of the Excise Bill. The new law also maintains the continuity of existing excise treatment institutes that are in line with EU directives. However, it is also important to mention that measures are being introduced for further and tax and administrative redistribution of the economy. The most important measure in this respect is the introduction of a return institute of part of the paid excise duty on energy, specifically diesel fuel used as fuel for commercial transport of goods to trucks of at least 7.5 gross tonnes of load capacity. So, a measure that came also as one, I would say appeal, but also a suggestion and recommendation from our entrepreneurs given one, I will call it an uncompetitive position of the Republic of Croatia is a number of countries in our neighborhood and an environment like this one measure they have. Since we all know very well the geographical position of the Republic of Croatia, the meaning of transport as activities in the total economy of the Republic of Croatia, but also its perspectives, we have decided to give this measure among other things to stimulate and raise competitiveness and the Croatian tax system, but of course Croatian entrepreneurs dealing with this segment, which is therefore a segment, we can call it cargo road transport. This fiscal effect is estimated and estimated somewhere at around 240 million kuna per year. In addition, one of the essential measures concerns the flexibility of excise duty periods for alcohol and alcoholic beverages in order to achieve administrative discharge of the debtors, by prescribing a longer period of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, the tax system will be significantly simplified and this measure will contribute to greater or we can tell the increased liquidity of the economy. According to the provisions of the applicable Act, the excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages shall be paid within 30 days of the date of its collection obligation. The new system implies the obligation to pay the excise duty no later than the last day of the current month for all excise duties incurred in the previous calendar month, which would mean that instead of 30 days the actual payment period would be between 30 and 60 days from the date of the commitment. In this part, we also have several segments regarding the calculation of excise duty differences on the supply of cigarettes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. This obligation is also abolished by the introduction of e-commerce on the movement of excise products, between authorised holders of the excise warehouse and freed users. So, this package, these three laws, on the following laws, I will, of course, explain more closely, when we add up once again, we have on one hand, the strongest measure in the value added tax system, the effect of a billion and 400 million kuna, which we strengthen with the Realty Tax Act, an additional discharge of about 100 million kuna, and in the excise tax system for about 240 million kuna. I also had a parliamentary question the other day, in the current hour, we can also discuss it today, certain segments of this excise section, not only by tax changes in this government's mandate, but also in some previous ones, there is a certain flexibility that exists that can be acted through the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation, so I will be apostrophysing and refering to the parliamentary question of the other day, which was about car taxation. You remember that within the second round of tax discharge that took effect on 1.1.2018, the biggest progress may have been made on that segment, since the total excise duty is therefore reduced by almost 35%, the last car tax on average. However, there are new directives, there are also new rules, which are being led at EU and globally. We will establish all of this together, calculate, not only in our amendments to the law, but also in the regulation itself. And what we said, that it was certainly one of the goals and some direction, with that measure that we made in the last taxation, cars, was among other stimulants to buy new cars, in order to drive the rolling stock into the Republic of Croatia, which has crossed or entered the sphere, I will call so, almost adulthood, therefore, a two-digit age, and at the same time, that age is very important, not only from the perspective of what you might think about the first view of the budget and the budgeting itself, but from above all from the perspective of protecting the environment, but also security on the roads, i.e. security in transport. I would stop here, of course, because my time is running out, there will be opportunities during today's debate, to say more to these tax laws, of course, and to the other debates on the remaining 6 that follow us afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93834	I thank the minister. His debate caused 30 replicas, an hour. First up, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93835	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. You said that entrepreneurs and citizens aren't in scissors, that's exactly not a lot of them in scissors, but on the guillotine and every day, that guillotine, so surgical, precisely solves 1,000 and 1,000 of our citizens to go to Ireland and hundreds of thousands of our entrepreneurs to shut down their companies. One craftsman probably couldn't sleep through the night because he found 3 kn extras in the register at the end of the day, 3 kn. And he says, tell the HDZs tomorrow at the Parliament not to lock me up, not to make them, that I have to pay 300,000 kn for 3 kn extra. I promised and here I told you, please don't. more guillotine our taxes, please don't do this, it's too important Mr. President to make 10 seconds mean a lot. [[Intruder President: Thank you, thank you fellow Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93836	Wait a minute, colleague Maras, 30 people have come forward and please be correct and fair to them. 'Cause if everyone's gonna talk 20 seconds more, then we're gonna lose the dynamics that we ourselves are gonna lose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93837	Do you know how much we're going to lose, Mr. President? Five more minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93838	Thank you, colleague Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93839	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, here, you will certainly be on the diary today, that is, on all the diaries, given the performance with flowers, just before, so that the further you emphasize, I will give you a brief answer in these remaining 45 secs. And you can tell that craftsman, the entrepreneur, the taxpayer, and tell him there won't be any closures, for those 3 kn, no shortages, no extras, no fines. If he did this for the first time, given that he's a leprechaun, the tax authorities will come and warn him, as they always do. And of course we will obey the law and act according to it. You present examples relating to those last measures, which are taken after repetition, tax violations, have been committed several times, non-reporting traffic, non-accounting and as some sort of top of the ice santa, the tax authorities are unfortunately, exhausted and to such a measure. I don't have time, but in the next lines, I'm going to tell you a little bit more about this statistic, but you can tell him very nicely, that he doesn't have to worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93840	Comrade Bunjac, you're second, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93841	Thank you very much, Minister Maric, you say you're in favour of a fairer tax system, can you tell me, is it fair that wages are raised only by the richest in society, particularly managers and politicians? How will you explain to the citizens that they are moving to Andrej Plenkovic, since 1 January 2017, the salary has increased by 4000 kn, and only by 30. Where it's your face to tell the pensioners, that 60 kn, an increase in pensions is a lot, and give yourself 70 times more. Why didn't you raise your salary 30 kn, like the other workers? What good is this whole reform has to do with our troubled economy and society, except the rich become even richer, and the government at the same time reaches only... Bottom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you have Minister Maric, any honor when you come here to mock the Croatian people, we are talking about some reforms, and you are actually working to destroy this beautiful country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93843	Thank you very much, Your Honor, no matter what tax income is not the subject of this opening presentation of mine, but given the replica, I will answer. So I mentioned statistics and figures there's no need to discuss it, and I'm going to say one thing very clearly, so if you're not in income tax scissors today, given the amount of your income, there's no such change in the income tax system that can raise your net salary, that's number one number two, the question that's constantly talking about how much anybody gets is also on the good side, I'd say in a good part incorrectly because income tax and income tax law doesn't define who has what pay, but who gets what tax, depending on his gross income pays and indirectly cut. And the third part, as mentioned earlier, you often say and personalize and single out the Prime Minister in relation to all of you, you know what is the fundamental difference why his salary during the tax and this term has grown? Because he's got another child and another child has reported, as of course, all of us together who have children as a personal deduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93844	I'm asking you all to hold on for one minute, there's a lot of us, so we're going ahead in line with the dynamics that we've predicted for the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93845	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Maric, your reform in the first, second, third or fifth or ninth circles usually has the same denominator, here's what I'll tell you. Here I have your answer after a long, long month of waiting for him to talk about how many banks they have, so business banks in the central bank, the National Bank of funds that they can freely dispose of. And if we're looking at the statistics from 2000 to this last 2018 for the first five, six months, let's say from 2010, four billion, five, three, five, six, and so on about seven and then watch out, after your reform in 2016 from seven to 15 and this year at 27 billion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93846	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93847	In the very tax changes, Your Honor, thank you very much for your comment and for your question. So in all the tax changes that we've said, we've treated equally and we've looked at all taxpayers, nor the bank, you'll remember our first reading in the context of the tax changes in the profit tax system at the time. Many MPs said it was a favor to banks in view of the measure we proposed at the time, then the Croatian Parliament also voted that it could be made one-off, but final write-off to Croatian citizens, in terms of resolving and cleaning bank balances, but even more important cleaning of balance sheets, private balance sheets of Croatian citizens. During the debate when I explained it and many concluded that it was a measure that we all welcomed together to reach it, as it did. So there is no separation of any taxpayer compared to the entire system and banks, as all other entrepreneurs are taxpayers of profit tax and all other segments, as the directives and our laws say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93848	Fourth in line, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93849	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Here we heard you talking about the successes of your ministry and the successes of the government, so you said that GDP is growing and that we have a whole series and a better balance, but the average, actually, minimum salary in Croatia is 2751 kuna online. If we take it as a family, that's twice as much, it's not five and a half thousand kuna per family. I don't even think that all the measures you've proposed or implemented are bad measures, but as if you're neglecting the fact that with a minimum salary in the RH of 2750 kuna you can't live. It's like you're neglecting the fact that a professor with a starting salary of 5,000 kuna has insufficient pay and can't function and that's what's important and crucial. So you're neglecting that some people don't have enough resources for their lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93850	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93851	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You know very well that the question of minimum wages is outside of the tax scope, the issue of tax coverage is of course how that minimum wage is taxed. It is currently 3439 kuna and 80 limes in the Republic of Croatia, gross full-time wages from which, of course, contributions to pension, or health, given the amount of that income and the non-taxable part is not even in income tax shears, so for as long as it remains, you know well. So the problem of minimum wages on the one hand is regulated in a different way, the government has, on two occasions, raised that minimum wage, of which there has been a lot of speech in the general public because, in the case of minimum wages, we do not need to ignore and segment of course of the economy, or entrepreneurship for numerous activities, it is certainly not a problem for banks, but for some other activities such as leather, training, textiles, wood industry, this can mean a lot of a big problem. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93852	Now it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93853	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the entire spectrum of patient associations, the coalition in health care, doctors, pharmacists warned and begged you to apply a practice that is common in Europe, it is a practice of a uniform rate of value added tax on medicines. We have an absurd, so I have two packs of medicines in my hand, and in this box we have Ranitidine 150 milligrams 20 tablets, this same 150 milligrams 10 tablets, this tablet costs 4 and a half kuna, and this tablet costs 2.4 kuna. This tablet pays the state and has a value added tax of 5%, and this is paid by all citizens and tax is 25%. So it's absurd that the same pill for citizens is taxed by 25%, for the country 5%. I ask you until the second reading to respect the requirements of the coalition of associations in healthcare, patients, pharmacists and doctors and to step for prescription and non-receptive medicines that are identical have a unique rate of 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93854	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93855	Thank you very much, Your Honor, here's a specific question and thank you very much for that. So in the context of tax, public consultation, we got 620 commentators. A good part of them also refers to VAT of which 78% refers to a reduced rate. So I'm talking about an appeal that should still be included in the reduced rate. We have included and expanded the original, preliminary draft of the law with eggs and live animals, but we have also taken into account some other elements. One of the elements that we are thinking about is definitely, as you say yourself, and we will see whether fiscal opportunities will allow us during the debate in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. until the budget for next year will be exactly equalising prescriptions and without prescription medicines. So it's not something new, thank you very much and for that question, but I repeat once again, so all these comments we get in public consultation as we hear from you, we on the other hand have to look at the overall fiscal effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93856	Thank you. My fellow Squishy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93857	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, dear Minister, you said a simpler and fairer tax system. We can all agree on that. But what do we get through these tax reforms? Circular tax reforms like you said yourself. We don't actually get almost anything. We keep going round and round as people come to us, and given the conukture, I expected a lot more, not an increase in wages by 2% of the most powerful citizens. I expected at least the fulfillment of your pre-election promises since you promised to cut the VAT in the second year of office to 24% and in the third year of office to 23%, you have now transferred this to 2020 in the last year of your term of office. I'll just say that what the citizens want, the citizens want to feel the increase in their standards. They want a raise of wages. Perhaps in some ways, it is not possible to achieve this, but to rely solely on some potential reductions in the prices of traders, which you yourself have admitted, is not what citizens expect. Unfortunately, this reform offers nothing for 98% of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93858	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93859	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I appreciate you taking care of the Croatian citizens, but I will repeat again, I do not have enough time to re-explicate everything, but 6.3 billion kunas of disbursement. The first two rounds have already been made, this is the third round we propose. So the good part of that discharge is directly to the citizens. One part, of course, also for entrepreneurs who are seen again in some ways to the citizens, given that they are employees. But here I have to, and I can't get the impression because you always say, and what does this tax change get? You, as head of local self-government, know very well, no matter how much you are of course an opposition representative, so you can't be in favour and you can't praise it, but you know best between yourself and your budget how many tax changes you have received and how much at local level it means to you for certain projects you plan to implement, and yet all for the benefit of Croatian citizens or your residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93860	Comrade Hajdash-Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93861	Thank you. So methodologically, I don't see here that there's actually tax reform here because if tax reform had talked about the spending side in general. You don't generally touch the spending side, but you increase it. So here I can say that there are some changes in tax rates. Some are even good. But what I definitely noticed from your exposure, so you're not simplifying the tax system because you're introducing differential rates. So, just by that, it can't be simpler. And you said you wanted it to be simpler. So it can't be like that. On the other hand, look, reducing the rate of taxes on meat, I don't think you'll do anything because of simple supply and demand. There is a great pressure on the price of meat, and I think it will nivell, and the largest such trachea has told me about crabs, rharogs and pomegranates as one classic Croatian product, which is located every day on the tables of Croatian families who will simply be thrilled to eat it under 13%. That's perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93862	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93863	Thank you very much. So, I didn't say, but good. Let's go over it again. So, very clearly, what we call the third round of tax and administrative redundancies within the existing single tax reform. Very clear. Very clear and very, I would say in detail because I repeat once again what I have said, we follow and follow all these tax changes. They have their consistency, consistency with previous measures. Just before I said, today-to-morrow we hope to create additional fiscal capacity to keep all the food at a low rate, that we don't have to, if you want to complicate our lives in terms of defining by the nomenclature what's going on inside. You have now brought out a segment here, I am obliged to read it because it is as such, among other things in the Law, but it is well known what the reduced rate refers to and we still believe and we are sure that this measure will still be felt in the pockets of Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93864	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, it's very nice to hear from you. So, a very educated and academic debate. But let's get back from academic heights and land in our Croatia. I want to tell you what it looks like from the perspective of a man, an ordinary man. I, like my colleagues, spoke to some people just before this debate and what the caterers, craftsmen, merchants and others are telling you is that this country is as if it's conjectured to choke them. There's a shortage in the wallet, a surplus in the wallet. Everything's being punished alive. Every tax inspector runs his own policy. Here, one of the caterers tells me, they had three inspectors coming to them, each said something else. Once this isn't right, the other doesn't work, the third one would do it like this. They don't know what to do anymore, Minister. We need to introduce order, first of all orderly if we want any reforms to succeed. And so far, unfortunately, you have failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93866	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93867	Thank you very much for, above all, here are the compliments, for the debate, or for this comment. So I'll do it again. Therefore, we must mention this because of the general public because in one of the breaks, i.e. one of the replicas was referred to a reduced rate of tourism, i.e. the VAT rate on tourism. The reduced rate exists on tourism continues. She's still 13%. She hasn't changed. Only the catering segment was returned to that general rate of 25% with 1.1.2017. So we need to be very clear about it first. On the other hand, I'm going to do it again, supervisory activities, and now you're saying it's necessary to introduce order among taxpayers. And taxpayers who regularly comply with their calls for the team amongst other things write and send calls for it to be carried out. So all the measures that customs and tax administrations or tax authorities implement are part of, of course, our legal and sublegal acts or obligations that we have. I repeat again, there will be time for statistics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93868	Dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93869	Thank you very much, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, as you said, you're going with the third round and you're saying that what you're up for is simplicity, transparency and justice. We also had the opportunity to hear in your presentation that you were talking to all interested, so I guess, that is, it was... that you spoke to the employers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Employers point to the problem of large quantities of people, the need for labour and the problem that there was not much cooperation in the best possible way, i.e. that those remarks they made, that you did not respect and that there were a number of things. Among other things, one of the things we had a chance to see was a debate about 13 wages. Is that even possible, what your attitude is about, whether there were any conversations about it at all, or whether it actually came up in the paper with a fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93870	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93871	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, in the course of public consultation, and thank you for reminding me not to, when I say citizens and employees, that's where I mean, of course, unions, in terms of their representatives. We have conducted several rounds of talks with both employers' associations, union representatives, HGK and all who were interested in getting closer to this public consultation of a particular matter. We have received from the employers' association one whole list of additional requirements, which I repeat once again, they are aware themselves, that at this point of course there are certain fiscal constraints, that all these measures are being taken as such checks. A concrete measure of 13 salaries is something that is not currently subject to the Income Tax Act, it is the subject of the regulations, it is something we have said that we will consider, but it was not only 13 salaries, it was a question of the treatment of a warm meal and some other supply of goods, services, cash, those or those which have tax treatment. That's what we're discussing, there'll be opportunities and then a little bit more details about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93872	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93873	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. We set things up like this, why do we need a reduced VAT rate, so because the general VAT rate is too high, so why is the general rate so high? That's the highest tax revenue, and you said yourself in the introduction, there are so many holes, so many budgets, they just have to be covered. And what I resent to you, as Minister, your neck will become stiff only in looking at the income side. Come on, talk to your fellow ministers about this spending site and these big holes. Because it may happen to you, I think Mr. Bandic would agree, to make a big hole here in Zagreb, to be the monument of all the holes, the budgets that have arisen. Not only during your government, but all governments before this, we just have to make sure Mr. Bandic doesn't fill it with water. And finally, I am ambitiously talking about reform again. You know what happens in the Croatian public, when I mention the word reform, it's like a priest's girl to you, everyone says there is, and no one's ever seen her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93874	Now let's get to the answer. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93875	Thank you very much. Now you've moved me to think, have I ever seen this lady? Ugl. So, as far as the time being in public is concerned, perhaps simpler than this professional terminology, the hole in the budget, I was talking here about the deficits and the gaps in the budget, which we inherited, which we found. And look at the numbers for the last two years? Last year's surplus for the first time in our history of the general state budget of 0.8% of GDP, therefore, 2.8 billion kuna, taking into account all the challenges we have faced on the bulky side and pension system and the health system and demographics and social policy, employees' salaries in the state administration, while at the same time carrying out additional tax discharges. This result continues and this year you will soon see the figures when we represent them, that is, they have already reached the benches, billions and 600 just in the first 6 months. this gentleman is also excess. So I was talking about holes that were predecessors, and the holes were over 17 billion kn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93876	Thank you. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93877	Thank you, Mr. President. Very briefly, of course, I'll be in the debate longer. We hear a lot about the repression of the IRS, and that's always a medal for you on both sides. And I agree that it should be for those who commit the first offense, slightly later, so check, eventually the other. But someone who's broken the law over and over again really needs to be punished. But again, on the other hand, we have practice, that whenever a company is asked to return VAT, tax inspection goes under surveillance. It's an unwritten rule, so you're looking for a tax back, it's coming to your attention. What happens if you started a SPE, one company, to build a building, where you're really clean, that you don't have a problem with anyone coming to you, then they keep that object in drawers. Also, when you complain, an independent sector, for a secondary administrative procedure, at the Ministry of Finance, it should separate more than any body they know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93878	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93879	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you've been well apostrophysed, I'm glad to get a little out of it, when we're only talking to the supervisory activities of the tax authorities that we're only talking about a segment of control over fiscalisation in cash. That's in terms of total numbers, the largest number, because watch out, a day is 6.4 million bills released. At the annual level of 2.3 billion bills to be issued. It's a really huge number, normally when we talk about it and when we talk about individual taxpayers, we usually think about these at least, whether we're talking about these, cafes, flower shops, butcher shops, fish shops, etc. We have since the beginning of this year in that part also made a specific plan, which is not just a matter of some of our wishes wanting the budget account to be filled. So there are models, risk assessments and analyses, for small, for medium, for large. So, some things that tax authorities keep doing and doing exactly what's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93880	Thank you. Comrade Felak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93881	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I am taking the opportunity to commend these measures that you have listed both tax changes and tax reform, which should total €6.3 billion. I also commend this part of the VAT reduction to 13% above all for food, for meat, fish and baby diapers. I also think that maybe there could be room for some more services or goods to reduce the VAT rate so that I note that we have a current VAT rate of 13% on concerts, on 5% cinema tickets, and let's say there is no VAT rate on sports events is 25% and my concrete proposal is to consider reducing VAT rates to sports events at least 13% because sport is one activity that we will agree to benefit all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93882	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93883	Thank you very much, Your Honor, both for your kind words, but above all, on a specific matter and recommendation. I can only say as I said on the issue of medicines and some other elements, you've well apostropheed, it's true that in the tax system today we have exactly the same difference as you yourself have stated, it's something we're also thinking about whether in this circle, in some future, the idea is that in some way and such species we can call injustices or maybe even small anomalies in the tax system analizing. But I repeat again, all these simulations of ours have some kind of financial fiscal effect within total figures, budget projections, and we try to fit them all in. It is not always simple, we would all like, of course, that this circle is not only lower VAT rates, but the general tax discharge is even more generous but I repeat once again, you see that we have decided that every year we are taxing, so this government has not done as many others have done in previous years or mandates to make us unhappy in the last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93884	Thank you. Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93885	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said that the tax system should be fair, he is primarily in Croatia a tax burden particularly high in relation to the countries of the environment and also socially unfair because consumption taxes are extremely high and socially unfair because they equally burden citizens here with low wages and high wages, but we are interested in protecting these with low pay, so we are asking you on behalf of HSS to reduce tax rates on food products, to level them with countries in the environment. Slovenia, Bodna, Serbia, Austria, Italy, have lower rates. And our citizens are going to buy a Bosnian ship, Gradiška etc. We have to stop that. And why don't you expand the volume or the coolen deserves both sausages and salami and barbecues and kebabs, that's what our citizens buy to reduce VAT? Help your Slavs, cut the VAT, if you don't, we can do it with this law just go you know where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93886	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93887	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We know exactly what you and I are talking about, so I think you've also been well-recognized as representatives of the HSS and I think that I think we should support this if at least intimately you may not be so public but at least you know intimately that this is a good step towards our farmers, food producers and ultimately just the part of Croatia from where you and I come from. As for these measures we have proposed, I will repeat once again, in this step, the emphasis is on fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit and vegetables, so as to fresh meat, meat processing is not calculated at this time but what we are looking at to achieve additional tax space, fiscal space, that even in the years to come, we bring the total food down to the same rate. As far as the little girl's concerned, they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93888	Comrade Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93889	Dear President, Croatia has one of the highest rates in the tourist segment you called this precise hospitality or tourism, in any case your policy to be simple transparent and to reduce, obviously there will be no realisation and a new impact on 100,000 people who will be re-taxed, private tenants. I am of the opinion that in this particular segment we should stick to these principles that you said at the beginning and just in the strongest perhaps industry we have, thereby increasing actual revenues that would then certainly help people in a simple way but also to the state to pay all other things. You'll hear the word cosmetics very often, but I'm not using it right now, but I'm asking this particular question answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93890	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93891	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, I will repeat, yes, and you have said well, the reduced VAT rate still stands on tourism in terms of organised accommodation, the hospitality has been at a general rate since 1.1.2017. But then, since the good debate at the time was rightly conducted in that part, we have made it very clear that there are a whole series of measures that we have changed in the tax system in order to facilitate all entrepreneurs so among others and entrepreneurs who are engaged in catering from the already mentioned reduction of the overall tax rate of profits, for them a large majority of them, in fact, to 12 almost routing, in terms of income tax, distribution for their employees and here, if we now want to see this rate of value added to meat and fish and vegetables, these are also products and inputs which are also useful in their preparation of their services and products on the market. Thus, both those who are and who are not in the VAT system will feel this change either to a total reduction in costs or to repair the liquidity position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93892	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93893	Thank you. Dear Minister, here's a good question for me from my colleagues, Vlaovic. I also have a question about VAT when we've already defined fresh meat, wasn't it wiser to define something different or to put a different definition in order to reduce VAT on meat of domestic production? And that can be done by putting in a certain number of days of slaughter, for example. of 4 days and thus reduce VAT and encourage domestic production and livestock production. I think that would be much wiser and it could be through some kind of amendment if you won't then we'll try to define it, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93894	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93895	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you'd be a little surprised how wise we are in some way thinking and measures and activities. In the law itself, the law defines the rates and defines what I just said in the opening part, but after the law goes by the rule, it's a sublegal act that according to the nomenclatures run by the tax administration, customs service and the Ministry of Agriculture already work intensively on it and I have to say very clearly and openly, it's going to be quite one big rule since we have to do detailing exactly what this refers to and there will be all this that you're talking about, actually defined. So at this point, regardless, I think we're talking about the same thing and thinking are at least on this part equal in terms of the very definition in the law, but the regulation will define it more and more closely in order for taxpayers and tax administrations to have clearly prescribed exactly what this applies to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93896	My colleagues, Lesandric-Ninčević, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93897	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you said that no entrepreneur and craftsman will ever see him locked up for his first malpractice, but that there will be a warning first. And you repeated that here to tell all entrepreneurs and craftsmen that they will first have a warning. So here's what I'm curious about is what you want us to tell entrepreneurs and craftsmen just in the last two weeks of these closed, bakery, flower shop, fish shop, just without that first warning. And some of these irregularities were soforcing that the employees were literally crying while they were commenting. Will you undo their sentence, make up for the revenues they could make during this period while they were closed and send them this first warning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93898	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93899	We were still respected MPs in the coalition at the time, so I presented it to you again in 2016 very clearly as the minister I gave in some way, I will not say the guideline but the suggestion of the recommendation to the tax authorities and they did so. Because we had examples that really for the first offense went immediately into printing. So to introduce an instrument and a general element of this particular warning. And those tax changes in the first round are like that and legal in the sense that it's recognized. So these objects you've been saying over the past three weeks or two weeks, so no matter what little you're doing right now, you're also creating some extra drama. So in each of these cases it wasn't the first offense, it wasn't the first offense. And that measure, which the tax authorities eventually had to decide on in accordance with the law, was not the result of the first infringement and of a baffled offense but was, for some time, followed, warned and worked with taxpayers to carry out certain irregularities or documents. However, when it did not come, unfortunately this measure was also followed by a measure that is not dear to anyone, neither to the taxpayer nor to the tax authorities, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93900	Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93901	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in your presentation, you said because of the charge in the first 6 months of the budget and also because of the simple and transparentness and fairness of the tax system this set of laws, including this Law on Changes and Supplements of VAT and the reduction from 25 to 13%, mainly for these diapers, for eggs, for meat, for vegetables, for fruit, etc.. However, it should be stressed that VAT has one regressive effect on all citizens, not only those most sensitive groups of citizens, but it will help us all well. I'm sorry that the union didn't get involved in that consumer cart calculation because of this VAT reduction and I somehow counted it on a five-member family that's a decrease of about 470 kuna at monthly level, which is a significant, substantial means for families and for those more safely away, far more amounts at the monthly level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93902	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93903	Your Honor, sir, thank you very much. Here it doesn't look like I'm stopping now, a little bit to defend union representatives, but I can really say during the public consultation we had a few very constructive meetings with them, they're all without the intention to instruct anyone, of course any coffee words and thinking but supported this particular measure. And in some ways, it's on the trail of what they've known for many years, among other things, and they've declared it. And this very regressive effect that you're talking value added tax where we all pay it equally to the income or property level that we have right through these changes will in some way be reduced and made it easier for everyone but most of those relative terms precisely to citizens with the lowest incomes. And that's what I keep apostropheing because unfortunately our fellow citizen and citizens who have below average income, who is not in the income tax system in terms of scissors, this is the only way you can identify him in a tax sense and somehow make it easier for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93904	Now it's my colleague Lovrinović's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93905	Dear Mr. Minister, yes. The tax system reform you've launched is not a reform, but it's still a budget-gathering process from which workers who get under 5,000 of them are over 600,000 in this country won't benefit, but I'm sorry they will. They could eat one egg each day in a month, you will reduce VAT to eggs, from 25% to 13%, so each 10 days a month they will be able to eat two eggs instead of one egg. Now I don't know if they'd rather eat all those eggs or direct you to each of you in the government at least one at a time. This tax reform is just a smoke screen that hides the most difficult problems in Croatian shipbuilding, Petrochemia, emigration, migrants. Because when you put in a story about changes in the law in Croatia, everyone counts on where they are, etc. There's no solution, that's what you said yourself. The only new direction is how to raise wages, employment and raise standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93906	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93907	Well, I have nothing to say to this of yours, and I'm a little bit sad that this kind of debate is right out of your mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93908	Comrade Schibol, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93909	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, I personally believe that this tax reform is a tax reform that only penetrates the surface into certain segments. The key question that citizens often ask us, so as ministers and other ministers, that their lives will be better for them in Croatia. And on this occasion, I ask you whether this tax reform will make Croatia's lives better or still have a social injustice in place where those who have large salaries will continue to pay them, even more and those who have low wages will grow only by 30 kuna. I think we're sending a message to young people to leave this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93910	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93911	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, with one part of your replica, I can agree in terms of thinking and tax system and in general economy and everything. In the end, I'm not exactly saying that, I don't share that thinking, but I think we should send a message to both young and other people, not some false message, but some real message to what it is. We'd all, I've said it a few times already, and I'll say it during today's debate, and we'd like the tax discharge to be even bigger. I repeat once again, we have started since the first year of office, we reduce taxes every year and we want to continue this course. The prerequisite for this was, of course, consolidation and public finances. During the public consultation several times and several of these presentations were carried out with the already mentioned interested public and individual associations. At every presentation, there's one last slide that says very clearly, I wish I was wrong to say this, but I'm not wrong, the tax system can't be the only solution to all our economic and social problems. We contribute to tax changes to improve certain things, but we can't solve everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93912	Dear colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93913	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, you have good nerves and I congratulate you on that, but you also have good arguments, and I think that's very important in this debate, which is very superficial, and it comes down to eggs and similar jumps. I would like to remind all colleagues in the Croatian Parliament that just such a bizarre debate was being held all day when we discussed income tax which ultimately brought only good to local self-government units and therefore, if it is necessary today, 50 times again to whom 6.3 billion kuna will feel better? So to citizens and entrepreneurs. And colleagues if you think you don't need to lower the VAT, then clearly say it. If 25 per cent does not mean anything to you, make a constructive proposal to Croatian citizens. There will also be bizarre debates as they were today that will certainly not contribute to the improvement of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93914	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93915	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The training is of course important that we can do this together, as you say, but let's let it go. Let's go back to the core and what you said. It's actually the core of this whole thing. We have one, I would call so, raising democratic dialogue in the Republic of Croatia, we are trying to make this by our tax changes, so the procedure respects law in terms of the preparation of legal acts, the public consultation that we put where we want from citizens, from the professional public, of all the interested gains of comments. I must admit that there have been comments that are right on the trail of what you are saying, specifically, talking about certain problems, anomalies and offerings or proposing certain solutions, but there were also very many normal and comments that are purely general, which say nothing is wrong, without, of course, offering which is the solution. We are, of course, here to offer solutions based on all these comments both in public consultation and during the parliamentary debate, and of course in general to try to adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93916	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93917	Thank you. Dear Minister Maric, you mentioned the profit tax, although it is not the subject, you mentioned it, you said it was reduced to 18% and that is 12%, and that is fine, I agree, but there is one part called the cartel company of banks that has robbed Croatian citizens of 15 billion kuna. They needed you to pay back the 10% tax on banks that you lost on profit tax because in fact 2% of 20% is 10%, so 10% of the profit tax you lost on banks, and you should have taken their tax on banks, the banks should have even punished the criminal and criminal, but that's another story, but imagine an ideal situation where they return to the citizens of 15 billion kunas that have been robbed, which is proof of the powerful verdict of the High Court of Commerce to additionally pour into the bank's budget a certain amount of money. I argue that all these GDP measures would increase by 2 to 3% of the points further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93918	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93919	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You know well that I will not only refer to EU directives now, but we as a rule of law should, of course, have and respect equal treatment and attitude towards all taxpayers. The Vice-President of the Parliament just before said one thing well in his replica and I will repeat it and very clearly admit it, it is no big secret that we knowingly in the profit tax segment have even violated this principle that we are declaring, simplifying tax regulations and from one rate of profit tax made two, but why? In particular, to put the emphasis on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and to them we almost halved that rate, and for everyone else, these large ones, including banks at 18%. The perspective further, along with these arguments already mentioned, since profit tax is not yet a topic, but I can say that we are thinking for sure and that we want to make further steps in the context of fiscal space, among other things, on profit tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93920	Thank you. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93921	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, as you yourself have said three rounds of tax reform means the discharge of entrepreneurs and citizens by about six and a half billion kuna. At the same time, the state budget records surpluses, we heard about a billion and 600 million kuna for the first six months. So the first and second rounds of tax reform that you started in the first and second year of the term of office have already resulted in a surplus of the state budget, no one has prevented the SDP government or other governments from making the tax reform in the first year of their term of office so that it can gain success over the years. So I must say that this performance and performance, the performance of colleagues Maras and colleagues of Vlaovic, seems to me to be a thoughtless and bad play. But I didn't want to ask you that, I wanted to ask you what ruled you, the government, that instead of the reduction at this point in the general rate of value added tax go to a number of other measures that involve this third tax reform?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93922	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93923	Thank you very much. At this first part of your comment, of course, it's a question of both determination and some vision, of a strategy, I was talking about it in the opening part of my talk. So regardless of the situation found, it was not easy in 2016 to explain to the European Commission and the rating agencies and the international monetary fund that, on the state of play with a public debt of over 85%, we suggest tax cuts because they see it as only a loss of tax revenue and a further expansion of the potential deficit. We said no, believe it will have positive effects on the Croatian economy and citizens and will also have a return positive effect if you want to budget. Which ultimately shows up. The numbers are there, so it's not your attitude or my attitude, so we sort of explain them, but the figures are what the argument is. As far as the general rate and VAT are concerned, in general, so also what we announced, of course we are standing in that position, but at this point we have assessed the effect for Croatian citizens to be much greater precisely with these proposed measures. The Prime Minister and I who may have worked most together with the rest of the government have taken a very clear stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93924	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93925	Thank you very much. Minister, you claim that the people live better than you are minister. It may seem here from Zagreb as you say, that everything is growing, GDP is growing, the only thing that grows, bus stations ranks are growing, the number of entanglements in the ministries, administrations, in all public use, growing in the districts, municipalities and cities, and everyone else is on bus stations for Ireland. What these reforms of yours mean for farmers who, for example, grow grapes on the table, for example. in Vrgorec, Sin, they can't sell these grapes, which means this VAT for them when they import grapes from Serbia, from Italy, which means knowledge, which drink orchards, means nothing because we don't have the strength to protect domestic products, this is still a good guess only to foreign farmers and producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93926	Thanks, buddy Bull. Let's move on, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93927	Your Honor, here's a thank you for the question and for this opportunity to explain a little bit, I must say that I disagree with you and that in some way thinking even I would say, quite the opposite of what not only is intention but is in reality. Of course, we never have to agree on anything, but I have to tell you very clearly here, so let's promote one more time, you just mentioned agriculture, let's promote what was made for agriculture, I was even afraid that you would talk to me that I'm too focused on agriculture and the climate where I come from. The reduction of VAT on inputs in agricultural production since 2017 for livestock and all that concerning agricultural production itself which now goes and culminates with a reduction in VAT rate to 13% for fresh meat, I repeat, fresh meat and fish, so how much is this segment of domestic agricultural production, fruit... What? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Look at everything that's been done just for agriculture and in the next point what I owe you since the current hour I'll explain about the proposal of the fruit society. [[Intruder President: Please, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93928	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93929	Your Honor, I have to note before I refer to the replica that our colleague Glavak has run for President-in-Office of the Parliament, she's commenting on the quality of the debate, not the laws, but I can see that there are likely to be some changes in the government, but it doesn't matter, what I have to say, respected finance ministers, it's a nice leap when you say about all those proposals from the opposition that are good that you're going to change it in the rules, you know what the problem is? We don't see the rules. We can only take your word for it. But this isn't going on to you personally right now, but this government didn't quite show up to be able to take their word for it. Well, I'd like to make one suggestion, please bring the rules when there's another reading and let's see at least that draft. But there's one other thing I have to ask like this in a hurry. You want real reform and you know best that this is not a reform, but it doesn't matter, you want right, you solidarity with entrepreneurs, you charge VAT, you take their money when they get the money for what they end up delivering and don't limit it to 3 million kunas... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93930	Thank you. Comrade Petrov, please let us be correct. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93931	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comments. I must say right now, I will commend the debate and the President of the Parliament, I am not running for the seat of President of the Parliament, but I think Mrs. Glavak is also. So as far as this part of VAT collection is concerned, of course, the question is, again, the overall fiscal possibilities but also the VAT system itself as such. This was a major step in introducing exactly this collection measure precisely for small and medium to 3 million kuna traffic. We have, among other things, passed this measure through some other tax forms, specifically profit taxes, already the differentiated profit tax rate mentioned, and remember what else we said, let's not ignore it because it is among other things my answer to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, or when you tell me or some of you say we're against them. We've introduced the possibility of a monetary principle in the calculation of profit tax, so if you didn't charge someone, you're not going to have a tax liability, if that's what you're up to. And as for the rules, it's not just an opposition proposal, it's ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93932	Thank you. Don't throw it out of the bench, please. Let's move on, dear fellow Boric, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93933	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here I want to support you in this third part of your tax reform because the first two clearly showed that what you said happened no matter what we listen to on the other hand. The fact is that the opposition has no response to this kind of reform and is trying to lead it to bizarreness, to the absurdity of not leaving any impression that they know something if they are against the effect of 6.3 billion to health care, according to employers, who defends you, gentlemen, you don't have to support, this will go away without you. What were they up to? Well, it's really bizarre and hypocritical that a minister who closes 70,000 crafts tells you it's a guillotine if someone's temporarily closed for a few days. A man closes 70,000 permanently, and he says guillotine. It's the space they managed to find. Public debt, 70 billion. They didn't care. So today, be prepared for bizarreness, and I ask you, is this the last amendment to the VAT Act, or are we going to testify in the next two years?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93934	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93935	The immediate answer to this last question of yours as I have announced, therefore, is all part of a whole process of tax reform, a comprehensive comprehensive tax reform that is forecasting in each year to find space in the budget and in a fissure that is further tax-deprived. So as I was saying, in the first step, a slightly greater emphasis was on discharging direct taxes, now the segment is more on VAT, and we will continue in the years that follow, among other things, because everything that we are creating, I repeat once again, one of the key aspects of fiscal policymaking that we have taken was the firm, sharp control of the expenditure side of the budget, the efficient rational spending of the budget, with the excess income we earn, not going public, but going into debt reduction and the reduction of tax burden. That's what we've been doing for the last two years, that's what we're doing, that's what we want to do and we're going to do in the years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93936	My colleague Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93937	Thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I'll relate to what my colleague Boric said, so it's just that he's constantly baffled this procedure and... tax reform, and it does not want to be acknowledged that it is only an actual ability to identify and quality follow all changes that occur in the fiscus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'd like to say is that, for example, In 2015, a famous reform took away the units of local self-government millions, tens of millions of kunas once, with a feather move, and then the mayors of the ruling party first attacked the government, their government, so this is something very different from what was done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93938	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93939	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So now you've reminded me again and again of this 2016 year when I defended then and in the context of the first and second reading of the parliamentary debate, amendments to 16 laws, I don't think in my life I'm like in those few days spent in the Croatian Parliament I said the word to make a promise. And there was a promise that we would compensate this income tax reduction, which is a loss of units of local and regional, or regional self-government, which we did, you all know, I'm sure more than well and better than I am in terms of local leaders. 2017 was a transitional measure to be exactly 1 for 1 compensated by what was lost compared to 2016, and already then announced a comprehensive law which despite being, I know that policy is a policy and this Parliament is such that sometimes you have to be against something that you are intimately for, but you also know that the biggest law on financing where complete income tax is left to units of local and regional self-government. You all know very well in your calculations how much it means to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93940	Now it's my dear fellow Shucker's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93941	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you, with this set of tax changes, did not say reform because it obviously bothers the gentleman very much, from the state budget, you referred to the entrepreneurs of the Croatian citizens 2.2 billion kuna. And that's something the state budget can handle. And anyone who feels that VAT should not be reduced to a diet should say what else they want to reduce. I find it interesting, however, that no one in these replicas has stuck to that provision of about 300,000 kunas of VAT for the first month of next month you must... and in 2012, someone made it possible to establish simple companies that have made a huge mess in recent years, and this government is now changing it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this government sends a message: all of you who pay taxes, we will protect you, and those who trick them will hunt you down. And that's the message of these legal changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93942	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93943	Here's a thank you, dear representative, of course, it took a lot of replicas to come up again with some concrete measures. I'm glad that you recognized it, I just recently referred to myself briefly and to this extent alluding and applying in some way that your intention and purpose is clear to you in fact why we're going in that direction. This is among other things something that we, as in the sense of the tax authorities, saw, but above all, came as an appeal among other things and from taxpayers who are thus bothered by it. And they just said there you have to make a certain step, with these changes we do. So no one goes against small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, to make it difficult, however, you will see for yourself that there will be some more measures from the government where it will be simplified even easier in terms of the establishment and management of companies and these simple ones, but of course in this tax sense we are doing a change here, so as soon as you cross that threshold. And let's not forget, I'll remind you once again, that precisely within the first round of tax reform, that is, the threshold for VAT entry has been increased from 230 to 300,000 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93944	Thank you. Dear colleague Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93945	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, you've pointed out in your introduction that in the last two years you've reduced giving on new cars and that's a good story. You referred to my question from the current clock a week ago about excise duties on new vehicles and light commercial vehicles and now since the last tax reform I will now repeat, the excise duty issue is regulated by the government regulation. Also since the last European directive, I repeat, there has been a new way of measuring CO2 in car exhaust systems has led to an increase in excise duty in Croatia. So as of 1.9 this year, 30% of the higher excise duty on new cars has been paid. You could've changed that by the government's regulation. You didn't do anything. Because your ministry didn't do anything about it, and since the last time we mentioned it, it's been seven days, you haven't done anything yet. When are you gonna do something?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93946	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93947	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Like I said to the current, and now I'm going to answer you, slowly. It makes sense what you say and we are in contact with our representatives, or representatives of individual brands. I have here, among other things, a memo from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that says according to their data in certain segments of our market shifts are minimal or none at all, alluding to this new regulation. He's got some stamps on him. ... Easy, easy, that's what I'm telling you right now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're kind of considering it, we're aware of it, and I told the current, and now I'm going to say it. [[Intruder President: Col. Djujic, please.]] Our intention was to relieve the public in terms of a special car tax. We want... A rolling stock. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The figures we've seen so far say we're on the right track and on the right track. This new regulation, so on. VLTP all that complexity that will bring, we will resolve it. It is our order through that regulation that all the together, as well as these tax changes, take effect as of the beginning of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93948	Thank you, Minister. Let's go to the last line, dear colleague Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93949	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. First of all, every honor, regardless of this side, every honor of courage, which for a complete set of laws. My opinion, and the opinion of the entire agricultural livestock sector, is that this law has done a great deal for primary agriculture production, especially for domestic production, Mr. Bulj. But my particular question is whether the rate of 13% includes fresh eggs in liquid form, as well as the possibility of such a step for cream, butter and fermentation, which are also animal fats? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93950	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93951	Thank you very much. Your Honor, all the details, and so this question you just said, will be prescribed by the rules. And in liquid form, we even have in some other forms those eggs. So, are we just going to stay, depending, of course, and on these nomenclatures, where, I repeat, we need to connect the nomenclatures of the Ministry of Agriculture to the nomenclatures of the Tax and, above all, customs services, and this will all be defined as such by the Regulation and very clearly clarified. So, I repeat again. In the law goes one more general, so to speak, the formulation definition, the rule, regardless of what colleagues in the opposition suggest that they and all together do not see, but intent, I am already speaking at this point because we are not waiting with the rule when these laws are passed. We're already working on those rules. So, the intention is for all these rules to come into force, of course when these laws, Psalm 1.1, the following day. So we want to make sure that all the rules we need to make are ready. We'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93952	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate. I now urge the Committee's rapporteurs to take their word if they want to. No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP. We've got two agents, no, just a colleague of the Veiligaj then. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93953	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. Here, this summer we've been notified of this so-called. a tax reform where there has always been an emphasis on the social sensitivity of this god, or as the Prime Minister would say in a rational rational approach, we seek to achieve an optimal solution that shows social sensitivity and which I believe will be well accepted. Well, now, listening to the public's reactions is well-accepted. Well, I'm not sure, despite these pink tones we heard here today from the finance minister. Neither the Croatian Employers' Association nor trade unions, even associations of cities and municipalities, without talking about the reactions of ordinary citizens. Just look at the e-consultation, how much criticism there was, and so few things that were accepted. One of the main assets of this reform, so-called. tax reforms, thus reducing VAT rates to certain products from 25% to 13%. And this should result, as the finance minister would say, if traders correct their prices by reducing a certain price of broad-use goods, so what is affected. One of the main HDZ pre-election bids was a reduction in the overall VAT rate, so I asked Minister Maric in the replica before, but he did not give me any response from the rate 25% means in the second year of office to 24% and in the third year of office to 23%. It does not surprise me that HDZ again, it does not surprise me that HDZ is once again failing its pre-election promise, let us only remember those guaranteed Iva Sanader cards as a reduction in VAT was announced from 22% to 20%, so at the end of the term of office the rate rose to 23%. It's similar to this one. The promise now comes down to some alleged reduction by 1%, but since 2020, when it enters the last year of its term of office. So much for the promises, so much for your credibility that I believe the citizens will judge themselves in the elections, and so you promised it nicely in your election campaign, and now you're ignoring it here by the ministers, you're not going to give any clarification, but you're constantly giving up what the good part of the SDP Club wasn't against, and these are the changes to the Law on the financing of the local self-government unit. I don't have any problem in one part praising this Law, but that Law has its own way. Ask the mayors of a good part of the municipalities, especially those who are there, I'll say a little more developed or medium developed, they just don't have those benefits from tax reform, and later I'll get a little attached and talk about real estate tax since this is a subject here where we have significant losses for local self-government units from next year. But let's get back to VAT. So it's calculated that through this reduction in tax rates, so this is all that's listed, meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, diapers, live cattle, eggs, etc. Croatian citizens were to remain 73 kunas per month in their bills due to price reductions. But I will say that there are great questions about whether or not it will be. I know that the ruling majority will, of course, defend in every way possible, that this will certainly happen. Even at that moment of inspiration at the current morning, the prime minister said, "Let me see this trader who won't cut prices, but we all know that this is, of course, impossible in the market economy." Some MPs say we should all together create a good climate, and then traders will go down their prices and we've heard all kinds of unfavorable excuses here, but it's actually something that might happen, and maybe it won't. In this amount that the Ministry has calculated with all due respect to the minister and his associates, these are always a little optimistic forecasts and will hardly be so. But who will benefit from these measures? Well, import lobbys, very likely. For example, data on imports of pigmeat or beef show that it is actually a republic, that these products are actually at the top of a scale of import products in the Republic of Croatia. And unfortunately, we've become an eldorado for importing cheap food. So in the last 5 years, we have imported meat and meat processing worth 2.7 billion euros, exported only 659m euros. In 2017, the import of beef grew at a rate of 10%, pork at a rate of 7%, we have similar data in imports of fruit and vegetables, we have larger imports than our production and we import as much as 71kg of fruit and vegetables per capita. So all this means that this measure will support importers more and weaken the competitiveness of domestic producers, and the effect of reducing prices for our citizens will be minimal or will not be at all because the guarantee that price reductions will simply not exist. Perhaps this measure and this general package of tax reform, which only comes down to a change of certain tax rates, would have had to go parallel to that, however, with a certain increase in salaries for the least-earned citizens, but we know that by changes, here we have heard income tax growth only for those who earn 20 thousand kunas net monthly and the rest, unfortunately, through this reform they get nothing. As far as VAT goes, I'd just like to be wrong, but experience actually teaches that lower VAT doesn't spill into lower prices. It is actually becoming a subsidy to certain sectors, which should not be bad if it is strong domestic producers. However, in addition to favouring these particular producers, we know that they also increase the complexity of the tax system and increase administrative costs and make the whole tax system unpredictable and ultimately more harmful than benefits. And just the analysis you mention in several of these arguments of the Law you say that, and in the opening debate, you said, simple, fair, transparent, tax rate changes must not be common in order to create a favourable business environment for investment, so that investors come. However, we are constantly changing those tax rates, and there we are, in fact, coming across how the tax system should function because we are creating one instability. Here, tourism has already been mentioned, that VAT was reduced in 2014 to 13%, is now raised to 25%, we actually have the highest VAT of all Mediterranean tourist countries. If you are already planning these certain VAT reductions, then you should finally make some kind of plan, not every year change it. To make one medium- or long-term forecast of VAT reduction, to decide whether to go to differentiated rates, of course, to extend the range of these products, perhaps to look at some of the things that will have influence, let's say energy efficiency, some of the things that are defined through EU directives, of course to expand the number of food products, etc., and if it goes to reducing this general VAT rate, which I repeat is a pre-election promise, then I guess we should do some kind of strategy and reduce this one, start to reduce at least a percentage of that VAT percentage per year because we know that we have after Hungary's biggest VAT in Europe. Here, I would also briefly refer to the Law amending the Law on Real Estate Taxes, and I must say that a little through this Law changes the Law on Income Tax melts these effects of tax reform that have had a positive effect on the budgets of parts of local self-government units, before I mentioned municipalities, which did not have much of a benefit from the excessive benefit of benefits and a good share of those developed cities. Now, through changes in income tax, unfortunately cities and municipalities will lose about 250 million kuna due to reduced tax rates on income, and will lose 221 million kuna from real estate tax. Despite the fact that in the very proposal for a Law amending income tax, you stated that this loss would be 100 million kuna. This is not true because in 2017 a total of 884 million kuna was charged, so from sales tax on real estate. If we reduce the rate of property tax from 4% to 3%, so this is a 25% reduction, a simple mathematical operation will result in local self-government units losing 221 million kuna. If we were to achieve the fiscal impact of this 100 million you're talking about, so we would achieve that we have a 15% growth in real estate tax, you know that's not going to happen. The growth is about 1.5%, which is considered very good. So, I suggest at least here that in this part, since here, you have also made the compensatory measures for units of local self-government that did not enter that category of threshold that was set, to add a new provision to the local budget of the state budget to compensate for the difference between income from the property tax achieved at a rate of 3% and income that would have been realised to keep the rate to 4%. Around themselves, here it is, the very change of the tax code around excise duties, I wouldn't have had too many supplements. I am glad that we have actually implemented certain solutions from our neighbouring countries since I come from a region where it is extremely strong, where the heavy road carriers are, it is good to go to a certain discharge that they certainly need to be competitive on, here to express myself in this regional market. And in that part, I can say that it's a good solution that's been achieved. And here I will finally say that, unfortunately with this tax reform, it turns out that in the end everyone is unhappy, I will repeat once again the employers and trade unions and associations of local self-government units, the professional public, ordinary citizens who unfortunately don't get any of this tax reform, and I think that otherwise tax reforms should be one subject of discussion of all of these stakeholders that I mentioned, of course, the academic community, economists, entrepreneurs, us in the Political Parliament who have the responsibility to lead this country at all levels, this is not the case. We got one juggling tax rates from which, once again, a large majority of citizens will not benefit at all. Therefore, the SDP Club cannot support such a proposal for this set of laws and tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93954	The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists has registered for participation in the debate. On their behalf, MP Tomislav Panenic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93955	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, and I will welcome the minister, his associates, as well as my colleagues and fellow MPs and parliamentary representatives. We have before us a package of amendments to the law, we call it a reform in that part of the audience I've been communicating with, and with my colleagues we prefer a good attempt to go on a certain discharge. And just as the minister pointed out today, the first reading is, so let's be open and positive, let's think a little bit about the intentions that the ministry has and some of the effects, through this debate to try and we contribute that the minister, his associates and this everything that will be and communication until the second reading might get some frames so that we can finally say that we're getting close to something that should be called reform. Because we usually experience reform as a process after which something changes. So it's changed, but how? It's changed a lot. It's changed that people can really say we feel positive and thank you for helping us. We've got some new hope. And that's why we can always be critical so we'll say, I don't know, it's too little, it's too little sometimes, how much more is there to discuss today. Let's talk about how much that's enough so that we can all finally stop and those who will vote yes and against. So when someone says it was adopted in the Croatian Parliament that we could say so I am part of that assembly. Because it often happens to us to adopt a certain bill. He says he was adopted by the Parliament but no one counts who adopted him. In a large part of the cases, those who are the ruling majority and the fact that they adopted it were adopted. But we all have to be responsible, because that's how we introduce ourselves. Anyway, the three components of this first debate, of course, is VAT, it's always VAT as an item, it emphasizes one-quarter of what is income, and it's taxed, it's really a lot. And when we look at other countries, this VAT has grown through this year as the crisis started, somewhere more, somewhere less, but here we end up being at some top, above us only Hungarians, we're with the Swedishs, the Danes somewhere on the same level. Some have a more significant relief, some with 0% taxes on food. And then here from this debate I'd like to point out, when we're talking about these kevapes, we're talking to those fresh ones about these 13%, but when someone prepares them for consumption, it's 25%. So we need to set this measure exactly how much it means to us when we're preparing for ourselves and how much when we support entrepreneurship, so that entrepreneur delivers the same thing, and the tweezers at that rate, if maybe we've made a bigger distance there, that's for one thought. We have two proposals within the VAT rate. One is a general reduction coming from 1.1.2020 from 25 to 24%. One partial that refers to meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, more that were listed there, more of these items that have been in place since 1.1.2019. And we have a certain impact on the budget, and next year it's going to go down a little less than a billion and a half kuna. The year somewhere when the general decrease comes and we still have about 2.5 billion to 3 billion. And there's always that logical question that we're going to make up for. Everyone is expecting these now projections of the new budget, in fact, on the new draft budget and projections for 2020, 2021 that this will be seen. So if it shrinks, but that's how you and the entrepreneurs think, if you've reduced the discharge, you've reduced the revenues of the state budget, then the expenditures must be balanced. So everyone expects to see those billions on the spending side. If it turns out that it's balanced or don't give God that after all of this it's a surplus, then everyone justifiably suspects that it's taken away somewhere even though the VAT is pretty far off, some data say about 13% of the total income, correcting the share in GDP makes VAT itself, then you should think about it really being one important item but I would try to clarify a little bit of the effects. These products that will now be released, this is about products that are unelastic. So no one will significantly buy neither meat nor vegetables anymore because we've consumed it now, yet we're not at the country level, families lacked it for the price, there's of course what needs to be helped in this work, but most of them were able to buy it from their home budget, it turns out that for the population we're going to have a price reduction, we hope that the trade chains and trade will generally accept this reduction, that they won't calculate the very increased margin to lose one part of this reduction. However, there will be no significant increase in the consumption of these products. So if there's no increase in consumption, no new production, no new investments, no new jobs. So this measure will practically not affect me would say what entrepreneurs expect, which is to help them strengthen entrepreneurial activity. I followed a little, they have a number of analyses that are published at the expense of some of the previous reliefs in other countries in which it has been applied, and this general rate can have a very limited effect. This depends very much on how we communicate and encourage our reforms. Somewhere it turned out that she had practically not caused the effects, somewhere the effects were about half of what was expected but wasn't the full effect. I'd just say that in this government Minister, what you have to insist is not enough just to have tax reforms. Somehow living during this term only in tax reforms actually turns out to be the Ministry of Finance carrying the entire economy of the Republic of Croatia that until the Minister of Finance has done something, that everything stands and waits when the Minister of Finance will assess that something can be done. Of course, it would be much simpler for the finance minister if the economy were to be more significant, if the GDP growth rate were to be at levels, here we see in the environment and about 5%, we're still taking advantage of it, even hints of reduction, then it would be easier to do both eases and significant reliefs and influences, but this turns out that if something is not done at tax level, the releases that are all concerned, means we don't have a real state of support in the economy, we still have a number of parafiscal burdens, a number of administrative obstacles, all this costs, and today we have a number of discussions about wages, why this tax reform won't affect, every time, here I'm also following your statements and what you say, but that pay is not in tax dollars, so I'll ask myself, but when we'll discuss once again how we'll help those who are not in tax? They're complaining. The fact that the prime minister's salary is going to rise by £100 or $4,000, frankly it's only important to the media, but to that ordinary man, he's looking at himself. He doesn't care if the prime minister has a higher or lower salary than he wants to get better, and then we transfer the thesis to the prime minister instead of discussing how to help normal workers who think that each reform brings an indirect benefit. And even here will be the debate over this contribution and the reduction and then the question arises, well Minister, if you expect entrepreneurs to pour it into workers' salaries, will the state administration spill their savings on officials? So we expect from them whether we're ready, means whether you're going to make a decision that leaves you with the 0.7 that remains to be passed on to the officials or you're going to be difficult to communicate because in public it's called arrests, so we have to be there if we expect someone from entrepreneurship to do so then I have to be prepared for that kind of move myself. What I would like to point out under this topic is this record of receipts of accounts, regardless of what new reporting is then conducted which must be within a certain deadline is an administrative obstacle. We need to be aware of this instead of going to unload, we introduce an additional mechanism, an additional current and constantly somehow within those deadlines by entrepreneurs, then we ask the opposite question. You're setting us restrictive deadlines after which you penalize us. When we need something from the public administration, then there are no deadlines, deadlines break, no punishment. We must show that the state administration must respect its deadlines, if we are already introducing deadlines for entrepreneurs. With regard to the recognition of pre-taxes for vehicles, there was already a clear attitude of MOST that should be fully recognised, so here, think that way. About real estate taxes, we can certainly say that we're going to go say hello, any reduction as such will reflect on the possibility of someone funding. But let's follow some of the measures that have been taken. We had the first tax exemption on the first real estate, just to encourage the purchase of real estate by those who first resolve their housing issue. In 2016, 12 320 were families who were exempt from first real estate taxes and used it in excess of 176 million kuna. In 2017 the tax was abolished means that reform and well, but it was said to compensate through certain other measures. We have interest subsidisation and this subsidisation only used 2 320 users and the total value of that is something over 17 million kuna. So instead of 12,000 users, we had 2,000 users, instead of 170 million we had 17 million. So he didn't return the amount that was and said that this amount would be returned through other measures, we failed to return it as such, but let's not forget, this measure is just a ceasefire, a fire precisely from this interest subsidy measure that we've produced? Real estate prices are rising on the market. When the measure takes place boom, literally real estate prices explode, rise by over 10%, I followed some inscriptions in which it was that over 10% so that this 1% reduction in VAT eventually turns out that in 2019 the price of real estate as well as 2018 with this reduction to 4% is actually more expensive than it was in 2016 from 5% tax. So all the efforts of the ministry that will make on this issue are neutralised by some other measures, some measures that should have been encouraged, they have actually made one chaos on the market, and so I say ministers, it's not enough just for you to act, your colleagues have to do certain measures and when they work even in good intentions to be aware of how the market works, someone needs to train them, teach them, educate that it's not just going to be a populist we'll give something if you eventually disrupt the market relations we've achieved? I'm afraid we have the wrong direction if that's not the way to think. I think it's always that effect of certain laws, and it's very important that everyone will indicate a clear impact on the state budget. The fact that the state budget gets more or less lost, I know that without your consent and very difficult to come up with a law that will violate some of the relationships in the budget you're taking care of. But nobody's saying how it's gonna affect the economy? How do you measure his effects? Now, we can now see the effects of this relief, that is, the release of the rate, the elimination of tax on the first real estate, the introduction of this, we see that this has caused negative consequences, despite good intentions. I say good intentions, but ultimately the consequences are bad. In the context of the amendment of the supplementation of excise duty laws, I would point out everything that is positively said here, and that will probably confirm your colleagues from the ruling coalition, so if I were to repeat now, I might take away the right to what they think they should say or what they're told to say, so I would only give one proposal. At the return of excise duty on fuel energy, you predicted a commercial transport of goods by trucks of at least 7 and a half gross tonnes. What's left? There was a lack of thought about the impact of transport costs on the collapse of our... If you are looking at products that occur in the east of Croatia or that are in the south of Croatia, if you are looking at agricultural products, we had a situation last year of collapse of the Agrokor system that the purchase of the product did not work, especially fruit and vegetables in full, good work even, and people were forced to transport their agricultural products to Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Especially from my county it's twice a mile, if it's an easy delivery vehicle, the price is I don't know, 200 kuna, it's a significant burden to them. But not to be too small now, so let me just say it's about agriculture and other entrepreneurs working on these remote productions, and they need to deliver their products to the market. The most important market in Croatia is Zagreb, the environment of Zagreb, which is for us, for example. Here's a delivery I don't know wine at sea or any other, we're talking about at least a hundred miles away. In order to be able to consider this proposal and to find a model of how to help these entrepreneurs both in agriculture and in other activities so that they can more favourably distribute their products to markets that they will buy. This centralization that has affected Croatia means the village not only of people towards Zagreb, we follow what is out, but also of production because production that does not have a local market in one Vukovar, which is now mentioned a lot just for the sake of protesting the one who is thorn in the eye, I have a bigger problem with the lack of those entrepreneurs who will have their business residence there. I'd protest for it, but I'd probably find another caller who'd say not to protest either because you have no right, but let's stop the protest from happening, so let's take measures to help one entrepreneur in Vukovar, one entrepreneur in Vrgorec, one entrepreneur somewhere further so that he can deliver his product as freely as possible to the markets that he can only have. Unfortunately, fruit production, vegetables in Slavonia will not succeed in distribution to the largest markets, to the main work or other major centres if it is too expensive. And then all the time we've got a crash of indicators, follow the indicators of agricultural production, everyone's down, all the productions are going down because we're losing the market, we're complaining, and now there's a colleague of Bulls saying about grapes, they don't need our grapes because we're too expensive. And here is the space for one measure of how to make the transport cost of that grapes that should be from Vrgorec, from fields, fertile fields around Vrgorec or some other destination lead to Zagreb that the entrepreneur can say here I have on the transport cost of relief, he will say thank you. It's real help to the agricultural producer, and probably to anyone in any business zone somewhere else. So let's not just be centralised, let's not just think about those who are in Zagreb, who are close to Zagreb, they have their own needs, which are different from some other parts, we should think just like that, regionally, see what real requirements are and find models, how to help entrepreneurs, so that they see themselves through tax reform. Because this is how we're going to have a social programme, tax reform, which will allow cheap bread, meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, everyone. It will also be cheaper for us in the Parliament, which we have solid salaries, so we are often called, sometimes with the right to do so and for those who will be paid, because their class will be over, they will end 36% of taxation. So let's just keep thinking and until we do another reading, make an even better suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93956	HNS MPs' club, applied for participation in the debate, they will share their presentation, is the first representative of Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. When a tax burden is announced, it is normal for all of us as citizens, as entrepreneurs, to expect much and that is understandable, because Croatia belongs to countries with high taxation, especially when we talk about the Law on Value Added Tax. We have 3 feet with us, it's a general rate of 25% and two reduced rates of 5 and 13% we know that 5% is bread and milk, and it's been a long time. These changes suggest extending goods moving from 25% to 13%. So the rate of 13% expands to fresh meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, live animals, eggs and baby diapers. It's these groups of goods, we heard that the regulations would be defined, exactly according to the nomenclature, which all falls under. The estimate is that the state budget will be paid less than 1.4 billion kuna, so these are the funds, which are intended to help our citizens, to pay cheaper products. I am otherwise sure and we at the HNS are sure that there will be a decrease in the prices of these products, because the market will make its own and we believe in entrepreneurs and we know that they will certainly lower those prices, because they too aim to make prices cheaper and sell more. I know they're not going to sell these products, and it's more important because of the reduction in this rate, because as my colleague used to say, right? We've been spending these products so far, maybe someone else, now, because of that reduced rate, is going to afford something more and a little fruit and vegetables because it's going to be cheaper. In any case, the HNS supports and supports this reduction, because this is how it contributes to the standard of our citizens. We've heard that the government can't do it, or that we in the House order employers, order how much wages they pay their workers. This minimum wage is currently not taxed, as the personal deduction is 3800 kn. So this is a measure, which at least tries to help in some way, to raise the standard of our citizens and that there is no more funds left for other needs. It also provides for a reduction in the overall VAT rate from 25 per cent to 24 per cent with an application of 1.1.2020. We are no longer so sure, whether these 1% will go and will be able to feel at reduced prices in our citizens or more with our entrepreneurs, because if that 1% remains with them, and that's a lot. However, we think that it would be better to think the same about the targeted reduction, i.e. the expansion of these product groups, right out of the diet, maybe see, which other products would be related to energy, in heating, because they are, because we know that a lot of them are heating up now and on wood and gas, which are still 25% and that the 1.6 billion kuna planned less in the budget during that period, would have been better used for these measures. What we still have is in these changes to the registration obligations of taxpayers, if delivery of goods and services is greater than the entry threshold for the previous or current calendar year. Otherwise, in the case of the establishment and introduction of the Law on Commercial Companies, the establishment of j.d.o. It was, in fact, a simple establishment, simple documentation that they must collect, and self-rule was far simpler than other companies. And part of the entrepreneurs really did business accordingly and did business well. However, problems arose when companies, i.e. these, were founded. Jdo and they closed at the end of the year for exactly that reason because they all exceeded 300,000 kn and they had no outstanding obligations, they could close next year, open up a new company again and enter again without paying VAT and doing business. This really created unfair competition on the market and it is good to introduce this, so when someone crosses 300 thousand kuna and in the current year, that automation passes into value added tax taxpayers, and we know that we also increased from 230 to 300 thousand in 2017. What bothers us in the HNS is this proposed amendment that the taxpayer submits, with the notice of VAT, electronic means and records in the received accounts. It is true that this record exists and that without it, a VAT form cannot be drawn up and it is not even such a large administrative measure that takes too much time. However, it is purely about one relationship with our entrepreneurs. We keep talking about how we're gonna relieve them of administration, how they're not going to have any more obligations and everything else, but there's always something else they need. And it's actually that one mistrust or entrepreneurs themselves are asking themselves, well, if you really don't believe us. Do they have to check everything? Because we know if anyone needed that data by now, the IRS simply asked for it and they delivered that data. But that, with every tax application, that data should be delivered, we don't think it's necessary. Furthermore, we have this transfer of tax obligations abroad is extended to the supply of concrete steel and iron and artillery and what is more consistent with the EU requirement to lift this threshold of 400 thousand kuna as far as it was now allowed to recognise a 50% pretax in the purchase of personal cars. Other than that, as far as VAT goes, I don't think anyone who wouldn't support these cuts would. Now let me say something about real estate tax, where the rate is reduced from 4 to 3%. In fact, we had already had a reduction from 5 to 4%, but there was a suspension of the first real estate tax exemption, so for units of local self-government whose income tax had no particular significance in the last year, there was actually no reduction. The aim of this measure is certainly good, and this is to relieve real estate traffic primarily for customers who opt for acquisition, but also to encourage all real estate and registration traffic and thus to fix the land-book conditions that we know are in our condition. Because we also have to look at how to introduce a tax on total assets, where real estate is, of course, involved, because it can't happen to be taxing someone a big house, but not at the same time big deposits in the account. So, that's exactly what we can do to sort out land books, and then we can think about taxing property. Noting, including real estate. But in order for this to be introduced and introduced, it is certainly necessary to provide for the non-taxable part in which real estate will be included, and only after that part to tax all property. So we think this is going to help take care of the land books, so then these two steps that I was talking about. On this subject, I would also mention real estate taxes and tax solutions that are now coming as temporary and as final solutions for real estate tax. So in 2017 we had 78 thousand 797 final tax solutions and 77 thousand 587 temporary tax solutions for purchased property. So the difference was only 1210. It was issued less temporary than final. All those who have received a temporary solution can receive a final tax solution over the next 6 years with a higher tax rate, and this often creates one discomfort when such a final tax solution is accepted, and all citizens who have been waiting for 6 years in suspense whether they will finally or will still be accepted temporarily. According to the IRS, only 5193 final solutions were issued in 2017 to amend the IRS. In 2017, however, this was not from 2017 but also from previous years, and during that period, lagging cases were resolved and more was resolved than in previous years. However, we know that when an apartment is purchased, a purchase contract is concluded, money is paid to the seller, the public notary verifys the contract, and the automation is forwarded to the tax administration, and if there is a value of real estate, area, type of real estate, a temporary tax solution is usually issued. So that solution that can be changed over the next six years. We all know that over 6 years, various changes can occur, that kindergartens can be built in that neighborhood, that schools can be built, which increases the attractiveness and price of real estate. Therefore, there should be seen that when this solution is issued, if it is not already possible at a given time, regardless of what the tax application has to verify the average cost of real estate, because there are records of all sales contracts on the tax that are in that district, in that place, and if that price significantly departs, to come out and check out the real situation. I don't know what time period it should be, that the IRS will get there because it's certainly the difference in the different branches of the tax administration, that at least that time will be reduced from 6 years to less, although it would really be the most qualitative solution to succeed in making every solution finally when it's issued and that it's known that it's already been checked, that prices are fine and that there won't be any additional burdens on our citizens for that purchase. In the case of excise duties, let me just mention that we certainly welcome the disbursement of citizens or entrepreneurs under this Act, which is 240 million disbursements of our carriers for this refund of excise duties and as well as the other part relating to excise duties. And what the minister said, certainly not all the problems can be solved by tax laws, but that these changes are done a lot, and we expect further changes, those that are possible and that within the budget are possible for the budget to continue to be sustainable and that public finances will be safe, we believe that they will soon come and the HNS Club will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93958	Representative Curaj will present the second part of the HNS Club's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93959	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, I'm going to concentrate a little more on VAT, since it's almost 50 billion kunas of income a year. However, as I said at first a little through history. So we had the first reduction in the general VAT rate in 2004, that infamous decrease, so when it went from 22 to 20%. However, it lasted only two months. Then it was returned. In 2007, we introduced instead of a zero rate of 10%, in 2009 we then increased from 22 to 23, in order to reach these famous 25% on March 1st. Now why did it go back in 2004? Well, probably because the effects that are then, and I refer to what has been announced in the materials to lower the general rate by 1% since 1.1.2020, the effects may not have gotten any better for the citizens. So 1% at the price, at what they pay, they certainly won't feel it. It's a matter of a general, general feeling in a country where we really have one of the highest VAT rates, when we look, only Hungary has more. We are here at the level of Denmark, Romania has 24, Sweden 25, more or less everyone else is at 21, 22 etc. However, our rates and rates are, let's say, this one of 5% is one of the lowest rates. However, our goal must certainly be to quote both what is good and what we and the suggestions have said absolutely, and we can do so if you want and could quote one of the most famous economic books, the wealth of the people of Adam Smith who says that each citizen is obliged to pay taxes and that according to his economic opportunities. 1776 more. However, it is also said at that time that the tax is charged when it is the most favourable for the taxpayer or the taxpayer. Unfortunately, I don't see how we can hold on to that. But I'm gonna go back to this... economic opportunities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think our tendency has to be that the general rate can literally apply to the vast majority of luxury, that we have interrelationships, that it becomes actually a higher rate at all, and that the basic food supply, the basic things that people live on, that it becomes even more accessible and, in fact, we already have these changes and additions, and that's exactly what we're going to do. When we talk about meat, vegetables, fruit, eggs, eggs, I would also like here as one proposal in the first reading to make calculations, to see which meat products can enter that stage, when we talk about meat cuts, meat products, etc., that they are not only slaughterhouse products, therefore raw meat, that we can also enable what is the basic human need, supplies, foods, that is more accessible to all. And the luxury of high sugar products that are not crucial to our citizens' lives, yes. Because it's not something I invented. Well, that's how it is in Germany. We all know, now our people are going to say, there's nothing more expensive there. The standard is much higher, but the basic foods are the same as ours or cheaper even. Why? Well, because they recognized it, which is the basic need of every man, every family. And there doesn't need a big tax rate. Or the luxury, yes. When we talk about, and that's been said many times, I've mentioned about tax repression and generally, I'd like to from now on all tax changes that go on higher, to rank the adoption of 2/3 of the majority. Why? We must not, we must commit ourselves to the public that no change of law will be done to harm or employers, primarily employers when we talk about investments and... Business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're on that trail. All we're talking about here is the discharges. Now, so no one's getting a new tax liability, we're not like in 2012 where we raised the VAT by 2%, but we're unloading it here. We dissipate those who need it most. Realistically, 10% of the prices are going to be lower on these food products with these changes, which is the most important. If we brought them down from 25 to 13. A little less, but that's about it. As for the work of the tax administration, I've mentioned it, we'll have more times later when someone asks for a tax return or a pretax because there's a surplus, he's got a surveillance announcement that, you see, you have to find something. That's not good. And we need to change that concept in our heads especially when complaints are still being expressed because we're in a cadium situation and suing you, when you're being tried, when we're talking about... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93960	Thank you. The Live Wall and SNAGA representatives' club has applied for participation in the debate, the representative Ivan Sincic will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93961	Thank you to the chairman, colleagues and fellow representatives, the public who is following us. Here's what started. The third round of tax reform said by Minister Maric, who has just arrived, is present, should be seen as a whole. So let's spread that little whole thing to this whole year that the prime minister calls reform year, that's the year where we're going to make major reforms. As much as I'd like to take a look or cut off that frame I'm looking at, I can say that all of this together is little or nothing. There are a few things here that are also in our program, a reduction in taxes on food, but the general picture is a disaster. Ask people at the station, if after these few laws or these other parts that are like reform, if it will give them their perspective, if it will fix the general state, if it will make them return home from the station, not to go outside this country. He won't, he won't. As we have seen in the last few days and despite saying the Minister's promises that there will be no tax terror, that customs officials, tax administrations, fishing shops, flower shops, small shops continue to see this happening, shut them down for one week, two or as long as it's already prescribed by the laws. No, we're not putting a burden on banks that have record profits, I also said earlier today in the replica after Mr. Maric's 2016 reform in the first round, the available amounts of business banks at the CNB have jumped from about 4.5.6 to 15 billion first and to 27 billion in the last 2 years. We will also not place a burden on the state administration where we have one 3,4000 new employees since HDZ came back to power, we will also not put pressure on or also do optimization on local self-government units in cities and municipalities, or in the counties. We have a county that could not exist without the help of a central state that is unable to write a project that will disappear or because it will run out of residents or we want to remove them from the top, but no, we will not touch it because there would be party infrastructures. We're not going to touch the judiciary that has captured billions and billions of kuna because of its ineffectiveness, here's only that end of Samobor Fantasy Land is about a billion kuna, the project can't be worked for many years. You have a sea of different projects, a Croatian dream, I don't know either, we won't, we won't go into that optimization. We're not even going to fight corruption in a serious way, here's what's going on with SMSs, well, there's probably no big money, but there's where it is. There's, say, HZMO, recently the USCOD launched an investigation because the coefficients were being adjusted. The head of the otherwise retired is the same from the ruling party. We will not even unblock our citizens who have been blocked for many years and despite some reforms around 300,000 continue to spin and do not see an end to the problem. We're not going to economically activate them, no, pay or die in debt. You can never get away with it, that's our government's position. We won't even transfer the burden to the political system. We could reduce the number of MPs as the population drops, it's logical to need fewer representatives. We could also cut the funds to the parties, wherever the Living Wall has councilors, we've already proposed or we'll suggest that the funds be abolished for the parties, and here in Tisnom we've succeeded, elsewhere we haven't, I suggested the same thing for the central state. Parafiscal imposes, please ask people who have a company, I don't know in London or other parts of Europe, how much they pay the accountant and how many bookkeepers there are and how much they pay the accountant in Croatia and how much work there is in Croatia. Countless times writing down all those items for HRT, for economics, for craftsmanship, huge amounts of work and for what? It's a small income from that anyway. We also know that excise duties and VAT account for the main tax revenue. We will also not solve the problem of double standards. We're going to the little ones cruelly, and if Todorovic hadn't been in trouble, they wouldn't have touched him today. Public procurement will also not be much touched, which has the same problems. So you can call these nine laws reform but it's not, it's more one cosmetic, marketing move, here's something to do, it won't change the general picture, the general trend in Croatia. None of these problems where the system should first be optimised, those who do not work removed, sanctioned those who steal, no, we will not touch that, but we will go towards the citizens, according to the weakest, least organised, and in this direction will go the pension reform that is expected by the end of the year, right in that direction. What would reform mean? The reform would mean dealing with clientelism, and the old parties in particular the two biggest parties, it showed up when they were in power, they are not able to do so. There can be no change in this country until there are reforms, until there is optimization of the system and it will not happen while the old structures are there, or as long as there are old structures, they will not allow changes to occur. That's one equation that's going both ways. Thus, even this reform could not make any more significant progress. Reform also means removing pressure, not only financially, but socially. Or as you call it discharge. The distribution offered by this is too little, far too little, to reverse the trend, to increase economic growth, we can talk about industrial production. Now something's stagnating, don't let God get away from us, Oil or Brodosplit, May 3rd. How many exports are they holding? Very much so. To leave our refinery, the Hungarians have already announced they will close. What about our industrial production? I said when was the 2016 reform here, tax reform so-called That we must ask for taxes from those who can bear the burden. We don't do that. At best, we're staying this way where we've been. To those who have to bear the burden, we have no political courage to tell them people like this can no longer, if it continues like this, the substance of the state will collapse anyway you will do bad business, in 10 years when no one is left. We better solve the problems now than wait 10 years. You'll come to the same in 10 years anyway. No, there is no political courage, by the current governments to say so, it will have to happen in the Croatian state if it intends to survive. Every day more and more people, who give up on this country, don't want to spend their lives here, it's actually just as sad. At the same time the diameter tells us, here's what small wages are, that's our advantage. That's our advantage. I've visited this summer, to make sure again, many families, corners. in Slavonia and Banovina, the position of Croatian workers at this hour is God preserve. A very difficult position, small wages, poor working conditions, working hours, working conditions, over-hours, it's an advantage. By this poor position, by this misery which is among other things Croatian workers has brought his party's policy through this decade, it is an advantage to him, it is not an advantage to me. That's where we first need to make a change. If there is no increase in the minimum wage and other salaries involved, let me say the average, Croatia will not go forward. We have proposed in our programme 500 kn increase in minimum salary per year, or 2000 over 4 years. Let’s not even compare the amount of consumer basket with receiving an average family, each of us is clear to live very poorly, or by no means, let’s just take a brief structure of these salaries. According to the Tax Administration a few years ago, the income means salaries and pensions, up to 1000 kn incomes has 260,000 people up to 2500 have a million and 100 thousand people, and the salaries of only 550 people in Croatia, and more than 100000 kn salary has 160 people. All 160 people. It's probably Todoric or something like that. So the question is, why go to so-called. The reform, which will give more to those who have the most, these people will not spend it, as a rule they will not spend it, we can see by the property cards, those who are officials have good savings, I'll put a little more on that savings, I'll put it on. On the other hand, to increase, although it is not a direct matter of tax reform, because many do not pay taxes because the salaries are really minimal and all, to put focus on minimum wages, on average salaries, those that are the most numerous, and... Tax administrations, there we can expect changes to the general picture and this will have to happen and this is a question of the survival of this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You should also mention excise duties, the situation, here, my colleague also spoke before me about the transport in agriculture, you have in neighbouring countries, such as Slovenia, Switzerland, the Czech Republic, the system of wine we stand for in Croatia, which is in our programme and buy an annual vignette. If I am not wrong with the HAK site, for the Czech Republic it is 50 euros per year, for Switzerland 33, for Austria 84, for Slovenia 110 euros per year and you can drive as much as you want along Slovenian, Austrian, Czech or Swiss highways. And there's nothing to say about the German autoban, nothing to be paid for, free of charge. At the same time, transport costs us here from Osijek to Zagreb and back, 5000 euros per year. So 50 times more than the manufacturers in the neighborhood. We are at the beginning uncompetitive, only on the road, where there are all those incentives systems, so it is hard to get money for farmers, so this project, the project that we are going to sell it to, the whole series of problems affecting the bad picture in Croatia, is not solved. However we set up the framework to look at the level of the year, this reform of mine just doesn't happen, the general state remains the same. And you need to tax on food to be smaller and the repromaterial should be smaller, that's what I said then, it's a measure according to our program, but the general picture won't change. I'll also point out that I'm stagnating in economic freedoms, two places we've fallen, as far as removing contributions to work injuries and employment, while at the same time increasing the contribution to HZZO, it's going to be good for one of the two payments probably less for the payer. But why are you giving money? Why are you putting money into health care? Here's our chance to see, today we talked about sausages, about shells, about kevapi, we know what this part of the food tax, about VAT, about reduced rates. But as far as what's going to go to health care is concerned. Mr. Kujundzic, one of the worst ministers in this government, did not have one law in this House to discuss. The Parliamentary Reporting Service gave me a list of everything that came from the ministry, almost all European directives or regulations. So he didn't write anything himself, i.e. There was one law he immediately pulled, so zero. At the same time, all those health problems don't add up because I'm running out of time and we're giving more health care money to patch up those holes. Let me know if we give more money through HZO, does that mean there'll be an emergency in Zapresic? But real ambulances, not sanitary transportation. Does that mean she'll be urgent in some other cities? Is that what helicopter service means to be introduced? Is the department going to be restored in some hospital? Where exactly does that money go? He's going to HZZO somewhere out there, to the Health Department where he's going to leak, and then we don't know what we paid for it, what we get for it. It can't be done like that. And if we don't talk about these malfeasances of the kind that he's now investigating about retirement, I'm sure there's also a health care facility, I'm convinced. Because we can't deal with corruption that eats huge amounts of money every year. Not to pull the data out of it now. We will, of course, vote against because these tax reforms, or the third round of the second part, or whatever segment you want, will not significantly increase Croatia's competitiveness, nor will it lead to the optimization of Croatia's state, or will not make us an economy, nor will one of these indices of corruption and competitiveness of economic freedoms, etc. Maybe it'll stay somewhere on the bottom of the note that there's something we've changed in taxes. So maybe here's one small piece of it, and now we're not 2.5, so we're going to be 2.8 growth. But it will not convince anyone that there are serious changes in Croatia. This government simply doesn't have the strength to do it, nor has it passed before and that's what needs to be said. Croatia with its 4 million and 200 thousand inhabitants according to the last census, we all know this is less, not half the world population has passed, but we are not able to arrange these 55 thousand km square, we are not able to redo. There's a lot of controllers, a scribe, a lot of places to watch who's whose, not who's who's what and who's what. And those of you who contribute are often maternally treated and we know it's our diagnosis. Here I would just say that the general government's relationship to the state of the country is simply unserious, insufficient, it simply does not show any understanding of the problem, or the understanding of how an average Croatian citizen lives, or even below the average Croatian citizen. And it can't be expected, things can't be expected to change soon. I can imagine why that is so, when you hang out in circles where you hang out as prime minister or as minister, you often alienate yourself from your constituents and from some Croatian reality. And then when everyone touches you here, here, it's good, it's going well, you lose the impression of reality. This should not have happened, and now we are all suffering the consequences, primarily political corruption, which is the source of this hall and it is over a little less metastasizing from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93962	Representatives' club GLAS, HSU also reported for participation in the debate. In their name, anka's representative, Mrak-Taritash, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93963	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In a set of 9 laws, we have the first set of three amendments to the law on value added tax, amendments to the law on sales of real estate and the Law on excise duties. And somehow you should concentrate on those three laws, but the challenge is too great, because when you first, so in the first set you still have to give a little bigger and wider picture of all of it together. So reform is a very difficult word and it is good that we do not use it and it is good that the minister said in his opening statement the third round of discharge and stopped using the reform because the reforms simply do not live in the government and then of course they do not come to the Parliament or are about reforms. Somehow, we always at the GLAS and HSU club appreciate the need to realistically show some conditions and be realistic and fair in some of the findings. We highly appreciate the fact that it is Minister Maric who is always in the Parliament and always defends his laws. And as I can point out, it points to two facts that should not be forgotten, which is that the minister believes in these laws. Because if the minister doesn't come to defend the law, then I always doubt the minister believes in what he's come to suggest. And he's also the one who's the most responsible and standing behind this place is actually the one who's going to take all the positive things and all the criticism on himself. It's hard to talk about taxes and so on. the tax discharge that we are not looking at a global picture that is in Croatia. For all countries, and for Croatia come moments that are extremely important, extremely important. In those moments, we need to get all the heads together and we need to know what we really want. What kind of country do we really want? For what we have the opportunity to see when we walk the city, when we walk the earth is the following and what our employers tell us is the following. 50,000 jobs are not filled in Croatia at this time. Next year it'll be 100,000 jobs. Here you have on one side, turn around a little bit. Try to get in the city of Zagreb plumbers to change your water boiler, so let's see how long it takes and young people who finish colleges don't even try to stay in Croatia and look for work in Croatia, have packed bags and go outside and that's our current situation. And we need to give an answer to that situation. Both this and this set of laws, which the minister called a third round of tax discharges, and in the opening statement, the laws want to ensure simplicity, transparency and a fairer system are among the laws that need to be answered on a key issue. The key question is how to be friends with your citizens, how to allow your citizens to stay here and thus be a friend or a country that can be interesting for others who will come here and fill out those jobs that we won't be able to fill, and we know that at this point and we don't do anything. What is important is that tax laws are equally a set of these laws that will answer this key question. I could call them, it's like a camel to you. You drink chamomile tea, you're not gonna get any better, you've had tea, you won't get any worse. And this is the moment where we need to do something? To spread the middle layer of citizens to breathe, to make it simpler for them, so it's not some sort of thing they don't know, it's not some new thing that we're going to say, but that's the point, so to relieve the middle layer, to allow them to breathe, to spend more and to stay in Croatia and to want to stay in Croatia. Both the set and the tax laws need to answer that question, and it should also be helped together. It won't be like that, and we know today it won't be like that. And it's equally important to listen a little bit. So we each have the custom of listening to ourselves, we have the custom of going somewhere to be stubborn and thinking that this is the best solution and not listening to what we're told. The employers absolutely spoke, suggested a set, said what they suggested. Let's go in the next round of conversations, so the laws are in two readings, we have in the first reading, let's listen to them in the next round because today I've heard the story of an entrepreneur who was a construction contractor, he's had six employees, he's gone three at first, and then three, and he's closed the firm because he doesn't have anyone to work with. And it's no longer a small pay, middle salary, or high wages, there's no one to work with. For there is no one to work we must give an answer and the answer must also be in the set of tax laws. And this set of tax laws didn't answer that question, they won't even answer that question, and we're going to talk further from this pay phone about 50,000 empty jobs, about 100,000 and maybe go and talk about some hundred thousand people who left Croatia. No one has the right to watch, observe, count the number of empty places and count the number of people who have left Croatia, but something needs to be done. With this set of laws, the answer will not be, and it must be clear to all of us, and it will not do that. Since the topics are divided into three groups, little about the law or the amendment of the Law on Value Added Tax. The prime minister, or HDZ, said in his election programme the value added tax reduction from 25 to 24, regardless of whether it means something or not, he gave the form, we go into it anyway. What's the point of that? In fact, a colorful lie, spilling from hollow to empty. The effect won't be, and we know now that the effect won't be, but someone will be able to tell in my pre-election program it was, uh, scraping, I did. Likewise, you have a cry to put it that way, the attorney general who says cut the energy tax. Why don't you listen to her? Why don't you do it? Why doesn't it shrink because then it's one effect that people can actually feel. So a little bit between the first and second reading, it's always clear to me, on this side that's the opposition, we're talking, you're doing what you do, if you happen to have someone itch somewhere, then it's something done, but listen to the ones you work with, who you're formally listening to what you have to say. And they have to tell you that, they have to tell you, give a VAT reduction to put on some other stuff. We look at the law a little bit and we always look at the law individually, we look at the laws a little bit more fully. In this House we had last week as well as yesterday laws that define the conditions in the assisted areas. Of the 556 units of local self-government, 304 units of local self-government are in assisted areas, then another 80-ac will be mountain-mounted mountains with the same special conditions, and then when you count the islands, it'll be interesting to see how many units of local self-government, I think it's some 50 that aren't in special categories, and that's already light for you, it's actually an alarm. My people, something basic is wrong. Because if we outside the system, or if we need to support 80 or 90 percent of the local self-government units, then it means that everything is together, that there is something wrong in that system and something wrong and it needs to be answered. Real estate tax, you know, wasn't that long ago when it was the first round. And when in the first round, when we started that real estate tax was 5%, the first real estate was a release. It was a model that worked, a model where absolutely young families who first acquired their property knew that immediately at the beginning of this country would do something good for them. I don't think there have been any of the opposition clubs that haven't given the amendment to it and said don't do it, let's try to leave if something works in this country, and it works, let's try to let it last a number of years and help if we want, we all swear on a demographic recovery, we all swear that we have to make it possible to get back, stay, then we have one measure that works, which is satisfied, with which no one has a problem, and we immediately decide to give up that measure and say that this tax will be for all the real estate, so there's no more, but it's going to be 4%. In explaining the amendments and in explaining that law, the minister also said that the EU does not give the possibility to be a 0% tax, so it is not possible in accordance with the directives. Yesterday, there was a law in the debate that spoke of housing in assisted areas, and in that law it was a provision not to pay taxes on real estate sales when the state offered you real estate. So someone explain to me why they can't do it here, and here they can't? And why maybe the ministry didn't see that? So in that law, you can do that law that's not the law, and in this law, you can't. What is the fact that our citizens and we are all together in Croatia have been spared in real estate and with real estate is the easiest thing to do. And here we come to a fact that is increasingly present, and that's what we declare, we even have a special office to agree with each other so that we actually have an office of legislation that takes care of mutual compliance, but I'm afraid everyone has their own tracks that go parallel, and very rarely touch each other. We have one law that came into force in 2015, it's a law on real estate assessment and it's a law that is absolutely important and important and related to the tax administration. And then we want everything, that we actually have a series of computer support and then one computer support will be for the property assessment law at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and another computer support will be in the tax administration related to the data collected in the tax administration, and the property assessment law needs this data. So we're going to have a imbalance again, it won't be possible to connect, it won't be possible to get direct information, but what we have here is our basic wish, that everyone manages their data, that these data are not public and available to everyone. The country that wants to go forward is open, public, transparent with data available to everyone, not just a narrow circle. So this reduction of 3% again is one story further, but I still can't regret that this minister, through the law on real estate tax, gave up the measure that for the first real estate not paying the tax, was a good measure, at the same time applicable, absolutely clear and well worked. We're getting to the bottom of two things that I want to mention, and then I'm going to do a little bit more about excise duties. One topic I want to mention is parafiscal intrusions. Minister Marić, you cannot reduce so much in your taxes a number of things that other resolutions can take on new parafiscal duties and that is something to take care of. So you can also have effort and effort and reduce this or that tax and rate, but you can't come as fast as other resolutions are capable of new parafiscal duties that no one knows what they're for. When I was doing your job, in another ministry, I was interested in gas stations a year as much as possible, it was about gasoline and everything and it was about gas stations, I was wondering how many years they had to have checks and how much, say, an entrepreneur who had a gas station cost. Why did I care? One time everyone who was single and had their own gas stations sold them to a system. I was wondering what the reason was. And then it turns out that they have 27 different exams a year and each one of these checks costs money. To me, the most interesting review was a visual inspection of the fuel tank. I tried to explain it to me because the fuel tanks are buried, they're underground, and what's he visually looking at? No one could explain it to me. That's what I'm talking about. It's a parafiscal inducement for someone. So gas stations absolutely from the aspect of water protection, from the aspect of the fire, from the aspect of the sanitary fairway. But what does someone see with a visual inspection of the fuel tank? I don't know. Maybe he sees it, I don't see it. And that's what I'm talking about. Therefore, what is one of the major problems, a list of parafiscal burdens, see how many in this mandate, in this mandate you are introduced new parafiscal burdens that are not only introduced by the laws, but also by the rules. So the rules introduce crazyness, so all of a sudden it turns out, like it's a News Bar or you have a feeling it's a hidden camera, that's one thing. The other thing is the inspection, we all work the inspection, whatever we experience that inspection goes through those dragon measures and punishes. The inspections must be someone who is, it's hard for me to say advisoryly, but the inspections should look proactively, when they go on the ground, that really in the first going to the field, someone has the right to a mistake, he made it on purpose, he made it by accident. But there's an opportunity to act that way and do something about it and watch the inspections like that. To me, I must admit, everyone has a theme every time, about which, by the seasons, you know, it's in one season you wear red, in the second blue, it's me this season, the inspection season. There's an Inspectorate Act in the public debate. And as the law comes into the parliamentary procedure, I ask the minister if your inspectors go to that great inspectorate. For now, let's say yesterday the culture minister said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The other day he was a maritime minister, and I asked if your inspectors were going to the grand inspectorate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm sure your inspection will stay in your portfolio, so it'll be interesting when that law comes, let's see why we're doing it again, there's little inspectors on the premises, so they're not. And the last topic, the issue of excise duty, you decided instead of amending and supplementing the law to do a new law, which is actually okay with this new law, you introduced some new solutions, personally and we at the GLAS and HSU Club think it's especially about production, no matter what it sounds a little rough, alcohol and alcoholic drinks, but these are these private brewers that are, this law will make it easier for them, and they'll be able to breathe a little bit and it'll be a little easier for you. You have this idea of e-business related to excise duties, but we formally have e-business, then with e-business, we also have paper. Come on, I'm an adult and I work and I live in the world using my computer, but you can see I'm using paper. I still kind of like to write it on paper, but young generations don't really use paper, and we do laws anyway for these young people, so let's get rid of that paper too. And I'll get there before the end, cars, new cars. What is the meaning and meaning of the relief that should be and what should be encouraged, this year or so, we have the data for the next year and the first 6 months. These gentlemen show that there are many more victims in traffic than the year before, and this trend continues and this Mr. Interests should be ours, that our roads are driven by new cars and that interest should be with 2 aspects, one aspect is ecological, because a terrible lot of money will be from the budget, that you, eco-acceptable cars, in terms of when they come to the waste you're getting rid of, and the other topic is the topic of security. Today you have cars that have those 5 stars or 6 safety stars and those that are in this sense ranked greater security, we must certainly allow them to have fewer excise duties, because that's our point. The point is to actually make it easier to drive cars that are environmentally acceptable and that are as good as they are in terms of safety. This set of tax laws, as I was saying at the outset, they're not going to do anything to track down these 50,000 jobs to allow our employers to be filled out, but they're not going to do anything to make us truly more acceptable to others who are going to do jobs, because our people are doing these jobs in other countries. Thank you very much. While HSS colleagues entertain the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93964	Thank you. We're moving on with today's debate. The club of MPs who reported for participation in the debate on tax laws is the HDS club, HSLS, HDSSB, representative Branko Hrg will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93966	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He says, in his opening statement, that tax reform must aim to increase competitiveness, the economy, new employment, a better standard of citizens and we in the club fully agree, but in these packages of the law, we ask ourselves whether at this point a better proposal to reduce VAT on individual products or in any case a better proposal to amend the law in order to increase wages for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those half a million citizens who have salaries of less than 5,000 kuna net. VAT is reduced from 25 to 13 for fresh meat, fish, vegetables, fruit, eggs, live animals and baby diapers. There were plenty of speeches and examples of such a reduction in VAT on those foods will have much more effect and effect on those who have lower incomes, on those who have lower salaries than on those who have higher salaries. If there is a reduction in prices due to a reduction in VAT, let's cca 10% to reduce the prices of these products I ask myself a question, if someone spends 100 kunas because they have small revenues for the purchase of these groceries, it will have some 10 kunas of a positive effect on that. If someone spends 1000 kuna on these groceries because they have large receipts, they will have 100 kunas of positive effect. When we look at it, then we see that certainly changes to the laws that would make bigger salaries for these most vulnerable groups would certainly have a much better effect, and the state budget would not significantly suffer in its revenues because there would be increased consumption, the safety of citizens, better standards of citizens, new jobs, more economic stability, and certainly so that these effects would be where and where better. But, of course, we're not against reducing VAT to these groceries, especially I'm not myself because somewhere there in 2012, 2013 we asked exactly that to cut VAT to these groceries. But I'm going to look back here today on VAT for food producers on agricultural production. If by simplified words, I will say, if the Croatian pig manufacturer sells a pig, he sells it for 1250 kn because it is 10 kn, payment with VAT bill immediately. If a 100 kg pig is imported from the outside, then there is no VAT billing but only fills out the form, it is going to delay the payment of VAT to the final consumer and that pig then immediately costs 1000 kuna. In these amendments of the Law, we expect a shift in this part, equalisation of payments and calculation of VAT for domestic producers, as imported producers do. Because this is how we favor the import lobby and work to reduce the competitiveness of domestic production compared to import production. A little bit more explaining things on one example. The manufacturer saves 100 thousand pieces of prosciutto annually by buying an import but equal to the quality of cca 520 thousand kuna or 70 thousand euros at a lower cost of trade capital, which makes up cca 3.5% of the input cost of raw materials. These are data from people who are dealing with this production and who are asking for a normal competitive match on the food market. Only savings on capital prices needed to finance the import VAT is somewhere around 125m euros, according to their data or for this amount of import goods costs are lower than that of this goods being purchased in the Republic of Croatia, which is also a direct cost, I repeat, the incompetence of Croatian products or production that the state can make with its tax policy or which state can fix with its tax policy. Enabling the transfer of the tax liability to the import good country therefore directly stimulates the import of the product. If, by amending the tax law, the State would allow the tax liability to be transferred to the domestic producer by means of a tax policy, it would in any case be significantly more competitive and make of course significant savings. We therefore propose equating VAT payment status to domestic producers, domestic production in the same way as imports. One small example, Frisky, as the Italians stimulate the production of tax policy. Their VAT on pigs is 22%. But when he collects that VAT, he keeps 80% of it to himself. That means, you sell a pig for 10 kuna pounds, you have practically 12.22 kuna with this supplement, then 1 kuna and 77 is left to the manufacturer and his price, the sale price of the pig is 11.77 kn. Our 10. What should also be considered for agricultural production for a future, I am not saying now, but for some future, further application of a 5% reduced VAT rate for all repromaries for the agricultural and food industries should be considered, in order to enable farmers to be more competitive on the market in that part of the tax policy. I will now return a little bit to this proposal to cut VAT to baby diapers, so I will remind you of the debate on behalf of the Club from 15.11.2016 when that first set of amendments to tax laws, the first phase of tax reform went. That's when I said in the debate I literally quote: I think we should consider another item here, another category, which is children's diapers. I think maybe it's for parents and the biggest expense she's got per day. The Honorable Minister replied to me this way: the esteemed colleague and representative of Hrg, I remember at the beginning of his opening address he recognized well among other things, and let's say, the element of children's diapers. I must tell you that children's diapers, e-books according to EU directives are not recognized, and it is impossible to lower VAT rates on them. So it's not our decision, it's ultimately the same directive. I welcome the fact that today's proposal for this Law also includes children's diapers, but Ministers, I ask the question, because I don't know, I haven't been able to find anywhere, has there been a change of the European Directive since 15.11.2016 until today or until the day of making the proposal for these amendments to the VAT Act? Because if there has been no change in the European directive, then we haven't exactly spoken the real truth in the debate and in some way it casts some doubt on all my future debates and some thought of all the laws that will propose this Ministry of Finance. So, I'm going to finish, for our club, this law is definitely not unacceptable. He has tax cuts, therefore there is no reason to vote against him, in the end it is the first reading, but I ask the Ministry and the Proposer and Minister to see the real possibility of this equalisation of the import lobby and the domestic producer of agricultural production to help them in this way. And also to take a good look at whether we are on a good path to such changes or really is the right path, the right target group, the right group that is most important to us of those half a million Croatian citizens who have a salary of less than 5 thousand kuna and whose tax laws should allow us to get a higher salary net in a way that we do not swallow to express myself to employers as well as to allow them to also be able to also on the labour market and they have certain opportunities to stimulate and give higher salaries to people. We agreed to this proposal within the club. And here, I have to thank my colleague Ivica Misic here publicly who gave me the final dorado, the final proposal that he looks like this, and that in principle he's not going to go to that variant with some minimum wage but with the possibility of paying up to 5,000 kuna, but that's what I'm going to do under that other group more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93967	The HSS representative club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will speak MP Kresho Beljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93968	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Now you've heard these half threats, don't be afraid of my predecessor. So it's not any threat, it's good to charge for it on some other segments, it'll raise your hand whatever you do. So, first of all, here's what I guarantee you firsthand, I have experience, so there's absolutely no fear here. And we at the HSS Club are inclined to believe that certain suggestions have been made so that we can call each other, let's say it in such a way as to say some timid reforms, and we will first of all give you some more suggestions so that you can think about it a little bit more and make it a little bit better. We welcome, of course, the removal of VAT, i.e. the reduction of VAT on food, but you know for yourself, and there has been a lot of public talk that this will be very difficult to implement because the matter depends on traders, so we simply left it to traders and it would be good if, in some other way, and some other law or legal information gave them a solution to force traders to go in that direction. And it's an absolute move to greet. I'd cut it even more, even more, so maybe that reduction was just too little. The good will is there, think about how to do it, so that we allow those most vulnerable social layers of the Croatian population not to really dig through garbage cans because it's a daily case. And unfortunately, I am personally saddened as a man, as a Catholic when I see that people who have worked their whole lives have to dig through containers and that, that is, misery, it is therefore something that I in my youth never thought I could experience that would happen in Croatia. Give a little try all together who decide to think about forcing traders to lower the price to a level that is acceptable then and to those who are unfortunately the poorest. We're a tourist country, and I'm often in touch with people who are little caterers, I'm not talking about big hotel houses, and I'd, as I say, have a little bit of a cobbler on how it goes. Because they can pay for it and it's no problem at all. I'll give you an example in Samobor, we've raised communal, communal fees, those monthly, your former firm, Agrokor, or Konzum, by 200 percent, how much? As much as we could. They didn't rebel at all, they didn't wake up for a second. On the other hand, we've cut down on all those who contribute to the budget, so we've cut off really big malls, banks, bookshops, insurance companies, law offices, all those who really enjoy the greatest luxury possible and unfortunately the burden of the poorest. Try to understand that it can be done, so it won't be for someone who's come, I won't be doing a commercial for anyone now about some big mall or some big insurance house being no problem and three times as much as it is today and someone who's little is going to be a problem. When we talk about hospitality, so come on, we are catering, not just a tourist country, we have a whole culture of life that starts simply with morning coffees etc.. The big blow was made with some other laws, long before you were even there where that cult of drinking some morning coffee, where something was spinning, where it was arranged, where the newspaper was read, where it was destroyed by one law, by another law, unfortunately, by raising VAT to a normal level, that degradation goes on. Then there's your whole chain, the whole chain of people who depend on it, who lose. And these are all small people, these are all small families, small economies, small tourist facilities that are able to survive their work. Surviving is not a burden to you; that is the most important thing to you, that is, to all of us, in the state, is not a burden to the state. Give help to those who are capable, who have an idea how themselves, their family and narrow circle 2, 3, 5 or 10 workers to keep them from being dependent on the state, on the state budget. And that should be your assignment. I am sure that you are deeply aware and try to think a little bit more and more together to free all the burdens and small ones that ultimately fill the budget and which ultimately, without which no big ones would exist. I often talked to great entrepreneurs, really huge, who have 700-800 employees, who speak at a time when there was a crisis that was not, now the other day I talked about it, under quotes there was no, what happened in the crisis, which is the biggest problem. Most of them survived in that crisis. They went down the little one, and the big ones depended on the little one. So, the state needs to guard the small ones, and the big ones squeeze as much as they go and they won't complain, believe me. I have experience as mayor at one local level, they won't object at all because it won't be a problem for them, and the state budget will certainly be better than it is now. I'm sure it's better. Agriculture, I have to talk about it. Agriculture's not on its knees, it's down. 300 years ago, when Slavonia was empty after major wars, after being freed from the Turks, it was empty, the Australian-Hungarian monarchy took the whole series of measures to fill or colonise that space. It's a historical fact and it's very well known to all of us. It wasn't just the foreigners coming, the Croats coming from... Place, from like, from Dalmatia, from Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, we all know that together. But no one came because he wanted to come, but he came because there was a systematic policy, I speak 300 years ago, a systematic policy of fostering Slavonia's settlement. So now I'm going back to yours, ours, your Slavonia. Give the farmers a free pass. They were namely those colonists, to get back to it. So, their incentive, the incentive of the state that organised it, Mary Teresa, Joseph, and who had already been free of land and 30 years of exemption from military obligations and all kinds of taxes. You probably know that from history, if you don't know, you can check it out, it's no problem at all. So it was motivation, it was an incentive for people to move to Slavonia. 30 years of exemption from all taxes. We have a situation when we talk about demographics now. So everything can be connected. That people are mass evicting, that no one wants to deal with agriculture anymore, and then we have now more states taking from it their own. You won't have anyone to take from in the farm soon. You're aware of that. There won't be anyone. Give them a release, put a zero rate of taxes on agricultural products, but make a limit between those towers that have been allowed by policy tens and hundreds of thousands of hectares of state land to rent, and there are in all parties, we know for ourselves. Not them. I'm talking about small ones, those who are capable of their family or a few other families, make some limit, some limit to the knowledge, free them from all taxes. It's enough to keep them alive, it's enough for their children to stay here and these people will buy, spend what they have to pay the VAT in other ways, and these people will again indirectly fill the state budget. But they for their work, for their production, release everything. Don't cut it, it's cut it, it's good for you. Release them all. Think long-term, which will be 20, 30, 50 years. The state will be completely emptied. That state budget, believe me, Mr. Maric, you're a better accountant than I am, but I have some experience at local level. It won't cost you anything. Nothing less the state budget will earn, only more because it will earn more from the other side, when someone does not move out, doesn't go to Germany or Ireland, then he will spend his 4, 5 or 10 thousand kuna as much as he earns on everything he spends in the store or anywhere he will pay VAT. When he goes to Ireland, there's no more VAT than he does. You agree, it's simple math, it's logic. Release them all, keep the people here, show that you care about Croatian citizens staying in their country. Release them for 10 years, show them good will. It'll be politically voluntary for you. This is not a proposal that is a populist proposal for the HSS. It is a proposal that, if you do so, will be subject to political consent to you and it is well-intentioned advice and I believe that you accept it as such and that you will accept it. And in the end about excise duties. So make a difference between luxury and not luxury. If the fuel prices are what they are, if we have the price of fuel that is formed where the state with its excise duties and other duties and taxes takes, I don't know, 70, by heart, I'm saying, you know better, so 70% of the fuel price is basically giving to the state, and the oil price is only 30%. Let's have a look here. You're going to help everyone again, and you're going to get twice as much of them back in your budget the other way. I'm sorry I'm learning yours now. You're an expert, but it makes sense to me. It just makes sense to me that if one car carrier survives and employs people, hires drivers from whom some families live who will get paid again, who will spend what less on fuel charges, it will get more VAT and other taxes, on profits and local administration and state administration, and I think it's simple mathematics and that we should go towards it, and most importantly, the vast majority of Croatian citizens will help in this way and then they will, of course, help both the state and the big and all, it's a closed circle in which we can talk about a win-win situation in which no one loses. Cigarettes, alcohol, gambling. I asked you about casinos, how much VAT or I don't know, any tax on that. So put 500 percent, increase 500 percent. The bookies destroyed Croatian, all of Croatia. 15 years ago, there was no bookie at all. You had the Croatian lottery, you had the sports forecast and the lottery. That's all I remember. Well, it's a game, it's a game. Today, young people, you have, when we talk about addictions. Dependence on the cube is something incredible, it's incurable and what's most important expensive for the individual, and for the community, for the family, for everything in the end of the man nothing. So give it a try here and prevent that kind of addiction in a way that if there were already electricity, if there were forces that wouldn't let it be banned, I would ban it, I would ban gambling, I would completely ban them because it's evil, it's evil bigger than drugs and alcohol and anything. Go to any bookies and you'll see, there's 20 or 30 people out there, they're like zombies. Nobody says hello, everybody stares at those screens and looks at the odds, the coefficients, I don't know what it's called. I would ban it, but okay, I realize that you may be in debt to one of the owners, not as you personally but as a party, so you can't do that, but when you do, hit them 500 percent higher taxes and make them full, they won't even get whiffed because their profits are so enormous on human poverty, on human suffering, and on that weakness every man is addicted to something that makes no sense of being addicted and it's a gamble. Here's a few ideas for you. I hope they're well-intentioned, here I may not know, I've criticized a lot of things, but what I'm saying, I'm really saying well-intentioned, thank you for listening to me, I think we should at least think about watching over the little man, guarding the big ones, saving the politics, protecting you and protecting our country of Croatia, that's your job. Otherwise, if we're gonna squeeze like you do, I'm very sorry, I know, order should be, I'm sorry, man calls me, works fair 30 years, 30 years my friend, I know, no Saturdays came out, my age, has a sandwich bar, works like a black man, is employed by his wife and his two family members. You take care of yourself, you need nothing from the state, you put him away the other day for some petty offense and the man says, "Nothing, I'm gonna have to close it down and go to Ireland and that honest man." Maybe he's committed a petty offense, it's not at all controversial, so be flexible, don't let the IRS turn, I don't know if they're still missing them, they're missing their pins, and I don't know what else, don't do it. Don't do this, you are citizens' representatives, you need to protect the small ones, you need to protect them, I repeat it is then for the whole closed circle from which everyone will benefit, and then we can talk about what Croatia is missing at this moment with all the problems, what is key to what we miss and what all politics has taken from us in the last, so not just you, but all politics, and that is hope. Croatia has no hope anymore. Young people no longer have the hope that tomorrow, in 5, 10, 20 or how many years will be better. Think about these changes, you can do it, they'll support you, they're fair changes, they're patriotic changes. Just these little things I was talking about, I'll give you the first round of applause, and we'll be in at least not getting along with anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93969	Thank you. The following is the Club of Representatives of that Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives, on behalf of whom the respected representative Robert Jankovics will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93970	... Vice-President, respected and respected ministers, respected colleagues. [[You can't hear the speaker...]] Here I am, for the rest of my commitment, not unfortunately I had the privilege of listening to the whole debate, 40a-k replicas and everything my colleagues have said before me, so maybe I'll be part of what they're going to say, but I'll be a deja vu, or part of what you've already heard here. The position of the Labour and Solidarity Party Club, Reformist and Independent Representatives, so 8 is that in 2016, we supported Minister Marić in a document at the time called the reform of the tax system that we adopted at the end of 2016, we believe that this direction that we have taken with this proposal is good in all nine laws, maybe we could be braver, so we will eventually see, I am interested in the debate and the period between 2 readings. So I'm going to try to stick to the metrics, the metric says we're discussing this set of 3 laws, so the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Real Estate Transport and the Proposal for amendments to the Expensive Tax Act. So when we started tax discharge in 2016, there were five objectives that we reformed. One is tax discharge, the other is attracting investment, the third is building a social fair tax system, the fourth is simplifying and costing tax administration and the fifth is providing greater legal certainty to taxpayers. So when we talk about VAT law, we need to know that this is the most important revenue and the biggest revenue of the state budget. Recently we even received a bronze medal, we are the third best in the EU at a fee compared to the expected VAT charge. I think that, in particular, I welcome in this proposal 6 of those categories n which we plan to introduce between the rate or to reduce from 25 to 13%, are meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs, live animals and children's diapers. Here I can welcome the fact that I'm moving in these circles, so after reducing the VAT on children's car seats from 1 January 2017 to reduce VAT on baby diapers. I think it's a very important message for young parents, for those whose expenses are the highest. As far as living animals are concerned, we helped agriculture in 2016, and we also consider a particularly important part related to the reduction of VAT to the most basic foods, consumer baskets. I think the direction is good, 12% is not small, so the reduction of 12% of VAT is not small, I understand all of them, perhaps in our clubs the actions of those who doubted whether, therefore, the reduction in VAT will really reflect on prices, whether traders will understand our message, whether it will not turn it into a margin, but in the market economy, someone said, in the market economy, there are no guarantees, the market would have to do its own, or probably be at least one trader who will accept the reduced VAT price on these key supplies or supplies and when others will be forced to follow it. So, the direction is good when I say that maybe we should have been braver, here above all, that's the first part, when we talk about changing the VAT law, maybe we should have been braver about the entrepreneurs that we are supporting, we continue to support honest entrepreneurs, conscientious entrepreneurs, and in a way that we will also have those unconscious entrepreneurs who have opened up new J.D.O.O.s every year just to get out of the VAT system, so now we will support them too, so these unconscious entrepreneurs will become aware and thus, not only of them, but also of the current conscientious entrepreneurs. We welcome the absolute fact that entrepreneurs who have crossed the 300,000 kuna threshold will enter the VAT system by that year, and not for the next one, will reduce their ability to cheat the state through the creation of new J.D.O.O.s, while at the same time unfair competition to fair entrepreneurs. In addition, we believe that part of it is related to the deduction of the tax on cars that has so far been imposed on 400,000 kunas, so the EU directive suggests that we cannot discriminate here, in fact we will take it to knowledge and conduct it as such. And now I come to the fourth item where we didn't have unity in the club, and it might be good to think about it until the second reading, I've had clear political aspects of the VAT reduction segment from 25 to 24%, so from 1 January 2020 it's about 1.6 billion kuna in three previous measures we've talked about saving estimated by data from the Committee on Finance from 1.4 billion kuna, and the rate reduction itself by 1% from 25 to 24 would be about less in the budget by 1.6 billion kuna. Knowing our mentality, knowing the mentality of our people, if we fear that traders will not reduce VAT, or that they will increase the margin on the account of reduced VAT on these products, there is indeed a legitimate concern that these same traders will not reduce, or that the reduction may be significant VAT, generally ranging from 25% to 24% since 1.1.2020 that our people will not feel it. And maybe it's good to think about what's so-called. The sectoral reduction, i.e. that the 1.6 billion kuna which is the state budget is losing a reduction from 25% to 24%, so that it is transferred to some segments that this most potent part of Croatian society may be further released, these are young parents with children, that it may be freed from further agriculture as Mr. Beljak said, so that it may be considered that these billions and 600 instead of reducing the general VAT rate from 25 to 24 so that we focus in this direction. However, of course I understand that the VAT rate in Croatia is the second largest in the EU and I understand that there is one direction and in this context that we are going in, however, I say, that is something that we can certainly think about until the second reading. As regards the other two segments that are now on the agenda, so other than the draft law amending and supplementing the VAT tax law, we have a proposal for a law on changes and additions to real estate tax, so this is the same extension from the 2016 documents to the tax system reform, remember that at that time we supported largely that the property tax, except that it fell from 5% to 4% to units of local self-government. So the trend of continuing this from 4% to 3% is expected to reduce revenues, although what I heard was not reducing revenues from 5% to 4%, but more has introduced them into the legal system, and in particular this is seen in the agreements on the purchase of agricultural land that are now increasingly entering a legal course, so they become legal when they are entered into books because that percentage is reduced or perhaps one of the reasons why it is so. This will, of course, continue to be the income of local self-government units, and I think we're sending a good message here, that is, to stimulate all those who are doing the purchase of real estate to legalize it, that it won't be so expensive anymore. And the third law that's in this set is the bill of excise duty. So that is where we concentrate primarily on returning excise duties for cargo transport, i.e. fuel for those trucks that, until now, have only been passing through Croatia, tanked in Serbia and Slovenia, to stimulate them, i.e. to get a refund of excise duties in the way they get it in other countries or perhaps bigger to motivate them to continue to do so in Croatia. I think it's a good idea, I'm sorry we haven't done it so far, but perhaps the only question remains whether it should have been set at 5 tonnes or maybe we could have reduced it, but if I understand it correctly is the EU directive that we can't do a weight differentiation that's less than 5 tonnes per vehicle. All in all, of course, by tax reform we can't solve all the social problems we could, and I told the minister at the very beginning that we have a million and a half workers, pensioners who currently don't pay a dime due to various reliefs that have a total of 2.7, so it's very hard to find ways to get them out of tax scissors. Here we need to distinguish taxes and contributions and if we distinguish them we will see that, of course, under these conditions to pass, if it might be braver in a way to give up the reduction in the overall VAT rate from 25% to 24%, that we are going in one way at a fairer tax burden schedule in a way that facilitates the tax basket in a way that precisely those target groups that are most important to us, so young parents with children to make it easier for them, to fuck their lives. And on the other hand, that entrepreneurs who have the impression of the greatest profit, to stimulate them, to help them stop being unconscious, to become conscious entrepreneurs, I think those two directions are good. And as for the other six laws, on behalf of the club of the party of labour and solidarity, reformers and independent MPs, I applied to two other sets of laws, so I'll talk about them then. All in all, Minister, congratulations and I wish you courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93971	Thank you very much. The last Club of Representatives, HDZ, in the name of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93972	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleagues of the ministry, our minister is here somewhere. Here, it is before us as the last Club of Representatives, this set of laws, indirect taxes or the Law on Value Added Tax, real estate traffic of the Excise Tax Act. It is clear that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support these proposals in the first reading, and we are sure that with your proposals we will all if possible and fix or suggestions, if not only in the law, here is the part that follows the law, or is done parallelly, those rules, which follow the implementation of the law, which may be another part, perhaps injustice or improve the whole situation. The objective of these three, i.e. nine legislative proposals, as we know in the previous stages, has shown that the success of implementation and the systematicity of implementation, these reforms, indeed, has led to some shifts, and this has already been demonstrated from the above in the implementation of the 2017 budget, as well as in the budget in the half-year 2018 period. As much as some colleagues argue, all that is done, what needs to be pointed out, that this systematicity and logic of all procedures and comprehensiveity can only actually bring a certain result, because it is always easy to do, please colleagues, I listened to you, while you were saying, therefore, consistency and systematicity in business, always leading to a certain shift, leading to order and everything becomes logical and normal. So then, very quickly forget about what was before and how it was before. In this third round of change itself, we see that it will bring a total discharge of 2.7 billion kn of citizens and economies and what has been mentioned several times, from 1.1.2017 to today, that would be over 6.3 billion kuna. Nevertheless, we see that by transferring income tax to local self-government units, we see that all of this works positively on those most underdeveloped. If we talk about the stability of the budget itself and all those challenges, which has a state budget, then it is seen that since 2014, when the share of the public debt was over 84%, it has now reached the lowest level of 78% in 2017. It is very important that in everyday life, every person, please Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93973	Guys, we can calm down a little, so a colleague can tell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93974	If you're not interested, go outside. In this way we actually contribute to the tax stability that will then show that every man who works, who creates, can expect some progress, and precisely with the changes that occur in value added tax at differentiated rates, really enables that basket, which is most needed, to each man, regardless of how much money he has earned, to make very significant repairs. I am convinced that by reducing the VAT rate from 25% to 13% that it will lead to this, that the competition will greatly increase and that all trade chains will really make an effort, that at least for lime they are cheaper than others. If we look at the state budget in its revenue, i.e. in the revenue of value added tax and excise tax, they are more than €62 billion, and that is over 52% of the budget, then we see that this way, indeed, the state budget, is trying, with the denial and abandonment of part of the income, to really enable, to improve the standard, both citizens and entrepreneurs. What is important in this value added tax set, this package, which is now being offered, is that from 1.1.2020, it is also proposed to change the tax rate, the general tax rate to 24%, which is then fulfilled and that the pre-election promise to abolish, or reduce the tax rate to an additional value, and that we are actually in the system of those who have lower value added tax rates in the society of the countries in which we are. In the case of taxes on the use of personal cars and the use, i.e. the value of the threshold, this was to expect the EU and the European Commission to be referred in this way to contribute to the fact that both cars and vessels and aircraft have become more attractive and to restore rolling stock while at the same time entrepreneurs have a pretax that allows them to actually achieve the best possible results. The changes that take place in the transfer of a tax liability in the case of foreign taxpayers who have been assigned a tax identification number speak of the fact that a tax, transfer of tax obligations to a foreign recipient will no longer be possible, and thus the application of a foreign transfer of obligations abroad in the supply of concrete steel and iron and concrete steel products, i.e. armatures, is introduced. This all has its reasons in view of the new investment cycle which is being opened within this period. It is also very important to say that some of the telecommunications services, i.e. electronic services of 70 and 77 thousand kuna threshold, are taxed. In this way, compared to 2015, more than 4 billion kunas were reached from VAT at the end of 2015 to the end of 2017. However, the projections planned for 2019 plan to increase all these reduction effects, up to nearly 3.6 billion kuna, which would be almost 7.7% higher compared to 2017. When we talk about real estate tax, then that's already said, he's crossed over to the local self-government units. And here are the tables I have through this period from 2015 to 2017, he was moving at an annual level of over 800 million kuna. In 2017 it amounted, 884 million kuna was charged. However, since the rate was initially reduced from 5 to 4 and now it would be 3% in these 6 months this year already achieved revenue of over 627 million kuna. What's he saying? It says that the real estate market has come to life, a lot more order has been introduced, there are no delays that I must really commend the tax administration in processing the applications themselves. And that's how tax returns improved, and with a reduction in tax rates, it's obviously become and common, then these deals are regulated as soon as possible. In this way, it encourages solving exactly the land-book mess that isn't, which it isn't, it's not just the state's fault, it's every one of us. And in the end, we have the Excise Taxation Act, which is already here, a colleague also mentioned, which still brings about a change in the way that it will simplify and relieve administrative treatment. There have already been a lot of cases where the carriers responded to this because they knew what was going on in the environment, several times informing me that there is a possibility of a return in both Slovenia and the surrounding countries. But here we are, and we are becoming attractive because in this way the new system implies prescribing the obligation to pay much longer. So from at least 30 to 60 days, and in this way we're actually getting much more attractive about the commercial transport of goods. In addition, it prevents and suppresses in a certain way the large number of tax frauds that took place, for example, in the territory of increasing the retail prices of cigarettes. Compared to 2015, 1.2 billion kn more than excise duties were achieved in 2018. So they are actually at an annual level of around 15 billion kn and are planned in 2019 to be 15.9 and over 7 billion kn has already been achieved in this six-month period. So with this kind of reform and the systematicity of adopting all those procedures, which promote implementation in this way, we can really say that we are trying to relieve the economy, that we are trying to enable citizens to have a more quality life, a bigger basket of goods, and in this way, we really need to support the proposed laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93975	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93976	Mr. Vice President, I have one question, Mr. President, this morning, before the club debate began, given that we have a united debate, extended the duration of these discussions, so I suggest you do the same for individual debates. Like the debate on behalf of the clubs extended from 15 to 20 minutes, so let's do this now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93977	I was just about to schedule, you just know how things are, the weather, that you can all plan, say, so, for an individual debate, 24 colleagues have applied for this set of three laws. So that's four hours, if there's no replicas, then that would take up to 6:30. After that, we have the following, 2 sets of 3 laws, approximately, the same number of clubs and individual debates have been reported, which means the next 15 hours, without anyone reporting for replication. And when that's summed up, then we're somewhere here without any replicas until 9:00 in the morning, according to this right now. So here, I just wanted to say, we know how to treat each other, how we're standing on the agenda, time, etc. And I'm afraid by the reactions, Comrade Grbin, as far as I'm concerned, I wouldn't mind your suggestion, but it seems to me that my colleagues have reacted so negatively to prolong it. I would suggest that we leave as soon as possible, I say, if we continue this way, without any replicas, by 9:00 a.m., we're done, so let's get to an individual debate, and he's the first respected representative of Mira Bulja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93978	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, as I said in the replica, and of course, you can't have a replica when you respond to the reply. Well, now I'm going to start from what you said. In fact, you here from the Zagreb square, from Jelačić's salary, really think that Croatian people live better in 2017, 2018 and that these reforms will bring a lot of good. I'm... At the beginning of the farmers, you said 3% of GDP, I don't know... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything you say in Croatia, all the financial holes are patched up, all blooming, all the flowers, literally like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, do you know that 13% more food imports were in 2018 compared to 2017. 71 kg of fruit and vegetables per capita, we import as much as 50% of the needs. So we're talking about the 2017 Minister. 40 million euros have been introduced more food products compared to 2016 on 2017. 161m euros, a billion kuna of pork, interestingly, is high in 2 places, we import bread and bakery products of 107 million kuna. We at the level of Slavonia, unprocessed fields import bread and now says the minister, we have reduced VAT we will arrange animal meat, food etc. It will all be ok, however, all the laws that have been passed so far, by the Ministry of Agriculture, the finance ministers, were that foreign owners of import goods, i.e. The foreigners are the products in Croatia to give them land, it is the Law on Land, and we are also on a huge increase in imports. Then you say we cut the VAT, okay, to the eggs, I saw that the lady just before was the problem, which is that the eggs from HDZ, Mrs. Glavak, what's the problem that we're talking about eggs, and 17 times mentioned by the minister. Do you know how many eggs we bring? And on it will be reduced VAT, why?* Because, here I was in Vrgorec, so in the Cetina region, fruit producers have no guaranteed ransom, so in Trilj, they have no guaranteed ransom, imports let's say grapes I'll tell you, grapes table, there was then, the problem they had farmers in Vrgorec, they can't sell it because it was imported from Italy from Montenegro much worse quality, man cries. He's got a family of five. Minister Tolusic did not visit him. Minister Tolusic, with these six drivers, now I don't know, needs one, which five others, I don't know, once was in the Cetina region before the county elections, so he went down to the farmers, promised to come to the ham fair, that he would visit it. However, the farmer does not have the opportunity to sell his product at all. So you're going to reduce VAT to imported grapes, I'm talking about an example of grapes. The same will be reduced VAT. I ask you, will it be reduced VAT to imported grapes? Why? We don't have a farmer anymore. We're the only ones in this growing moment, I said, so the people on the bus stations going outside are growing the number of public administration employees. I'm in the county, I even suggested they build one floor of the building, so I brought them four chairs. They've got new employees, people don't have a place to sit, so people don't have to walk around in cafes and just go to five people's rooms, there's 10 of them. There's just no room. So, I'd just like to say for a little while that your emphasis on farmers and the agricultural home industry has nothing to do with it. You can't in Austria say we're going to import foreign apples, this-that. The market is up to the last kilo of their apple has no imports. And that's the market. That's the EU. There is no sale in Hungary of agricultural land to foreign owners, foreign natural and legal persons. It's in the Republic of And now that we have devastated all these farms and the empty Slavonia where you say you're coming from, now we've brought new laws. Foreigners can own OPGs and can buy land. And you see, Croatia, Croatia, a legal and natural person from the Republic of Croatia cannot buy in Hungary agricultural land or open something similar to the OPG. So you didn't protect the farmer here. You've even encouraged the purchase from the imports here. So you and your ministers in the government decide what they're doing. And what else is big? There are great ranks in the homes of health, there are no doctors. People don't have health checks, they die in the streets, ambulances aren't well-organized, and health care gets a lot out. What did you do with what you're going to do with the huge savings? When we have 2/3 of the minister's RH, they're empty. You go out among people, you go through Lika, not the highway, you'll see sometimes where there's a lot of cattle in the pastures, there's no more. I was on Pag the other day, where people grow Pag cheese, famous brand and exactly sheep grow, and they produce Pag cheese and lamb pasture known, with which we are proud and boast. And the loading station, the cargo station where they're going to load the trash, that is. Unclassified waste, they built it exactly where sheep are kept. But it doesn't matter to them, obviously it doesn't matter to our country that we producers, it matters to waste lobbys, and that's where we lose one brand. Or maybe it's for stronger ones to produce and import Pag cheese. Perhaps we should destroy a Pag peasant who deals with herding and importing Pag cheese, what is wrong with importing Pag cheese from Hungary. But they're the problem with our import lobbys by the ministries to solve a stamp of Pag cheese. The fact that the sheep is grown in Hungary is not a problem in Croatia. They delay the waste in the area where it is kept, where the meadows are, where the pastures are for sheep. On Pag. And so is the example of a thousand. We don't have a farmer anymore. Your resolute ministers, your ministers with whom you are colleagues, look at one fact. All reforms to make, all properties to sum up which are empty, could be inhabited by properties that are empty another Croatia. That's right in my Dalmatian Zagora, that's right with you fellows, you who laugh, that's right in Sinj, that's right with my colleague Šipić in Trilj, that's right in Osijek, where he is a colleague of Curaj, that's where I turn, that's where I turn. Only in Zagreb he's not, yes. And in Ireland. Minister, if you continue this way, you can be Minister of Ireland. You can move to Ireland and it is time for the government to leave these lights of Zagreb from Markovo's square, not to hold sessions like they did in Split, so when Minister Maric promised the workers of Dalmatia Vin that his problem would be solved, only to suppress that little protest, that he was gone, and the demands of the workers were in great trouble. Searching for the Dalmatian woman, the constructor, all the companies that were destroyed. Now, these claims are a problem. But it's nice when you come to Split to the Minister's Government, you promise the workers that you'll pay them back. So you're saying, I don't know if it's exactly with the law or whether it's gonna be with the law. I'm talking about agriculture here. I'm talking about what you're bragging about. Know we import more eggs than we produce. I said, 50% of the fruit and vegetables are imported, imports are growing rapidly. Therefore, these measures are not too late, but irrelevant to the farmers you've destroyed and you've brought them to this hole of farmers and wasted them in Ireland, you gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93979	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93980	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, in your debate, you touched on a segment that is particularly important and which is connected to tourism and catering, you said that this government doesn't take too much care of agricultural products except when it comes to some specific VAT reductions, we see now people who are probably going crazy to run ahead and buy lobsters in stores, it will certainly be one of the main recipes for Sunday lunch or pardon, on Friday, so I want to tell me in these moves we don't see any policy and support for either citizens or farmers. The partial measures, which are divided into six billion kunas and in fact, in the last two years, only tax revenues are almost so much increased. So this government hasn't almost given the citizens anything they haven't paid themselves in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93981	Thank you. Here's something to say, dear Representative Bulj, there was no question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93982	... Well, if it wasn't just me criticizing it, I also supported one reform measure that I didn't support the budget when I was in the majority, and that's the unit measure, so taxes, balancing, means funding units of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything else is missing. And this... I supported it because I fought for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I warned you about as part of the majority. I didn't support it because of those spaces. I didn't support the budget. That's what we all remember. However, they say it will do Croatia a good reduction, to the Croatian farmer a reduction in VAT, a farmer who is not there, because the minister has 5 drivers, what then 4 will give him 4, here is one train. Now I'm curious if the minister has six drivers, where's the minister, so you better encourage those farmers and those cattlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93983	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93984	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I listened to your debate, but I would ask a question, should I ask a better question as to what the governments have been up to now? That's the question. Not now this government, yet this government has done something if we know it was a public debt of 87%, if we know that businessmen and craftsmen are being relieved by 2.2 billion, and this government is still doing a part of it, if it's 25 to 23 reduced VAT on certain goods used most by our citizens, I would just say that this government is still doing something and trying to do something and would say all the governments so far have done nothing, could say they slept or didn't know. I think that Mr. Maric has done a lot in tax reform and I can tell him as a businessman congratulations and I hope that we will do even more for a year, but that's a good step and the strategy you're making, I think it'll be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93985	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93986	My friend Micic, you have a question to the wrong address. Ask all the former ministers here what they were doing. They didn't fall from Mars, you ask them nicely, you're gone, you're in a coalition with them, it's your right, from one camp to another, it's everyone's right, and you have the right to do it. But I'm sorry that 100,000 people have gone away in the last year, which is 26,000 people in the last 5 years from the Dalmatian Mountain. There is no anxiety, but the fact is that this government has no space in Parliament, because the commercial majority is currently, you know, not the natural majority, the ones chosen by the SDP voters, are now sitting there. Or vice versa, I don't know. What's most of them here? Who did the people vote for here? For which lists, then look, and ye shall see. So this government has no legitimacy because this Parliament has lost its legitimacy because of trade in Parliament, the purest, the most common, the Bulgarian policies and trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93987	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93988	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, in your debate on the problem of Croatian peasants, first of all farmers from the region of Dalmatia, we see that in this proposal changes in the 13% VAT column go to children's diapers, delivery of live animals, meat, edible... products, fish, crabs, mollusks, other aquatic kilns,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] vegetables, roots, mushrooms, but that's where we don't see any dried meat products. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Dalmatian prosciutto, Istrian prosciutto, karski prosciutto, there we see no oil, various oils, no cheeses, paška cheese, means we do not see everything that bears the designations of originality, what is listed in the Register for the Protection of Origin of Protected Geographical Origin of Croatia, and instead of encouraging such an example, just these indigenous Croatian products and in such a way processing the content of our tourism and tourist offer, they do not stand in the label to reduce VAT to 13%. How can we encourage Croatian peasants to know that these branches are the only ones that work in our areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93989	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93990	Well, yeah, you're right, we see that, and only when you remember those ends, are they on the days of the high-end prosciutto, I'm always saying it over and over again, or when it's Sinju Alka, of course it's a 0% delicacy, without VAT, but they're not going to do it. As a market of course they prefer Italian prosciutto, imported lobbies or someone, they'll all get, and the vermin within the state system will get money in their pocket to import Dalmatian prosciutto from Italy, that's much better, right. From Hungary. What do we need on Pag sheep when we can import Pag cheese from Sicily, what do we need it for? Let's dump the waste there, let's put it off, we're an eco-country no matter what people even get the OPG funds from EU funds dealing with shepherding, but that's irrelevant. They care about the import lobby and this is just makeup. So here are the ministers in charge who do huge damages to reduce the number of drivers and invest and deal with what they've been chosen to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93991	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93992	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, I could even agree with you in one part, especially when you were talking about agriculture. Of course, I don't know whether knowingly or unconsciously, you know that VAT cannot make differences between importers and domestic producers. Even when we were past the EU, it was customs. If you're up for it, then you need to get out of the EU and put customs. However, what I want to agree with you, yes, domestic production must be concrete and there we should address our proposals because I, for example, would like to be able to come to any shopping mall and buy fresh meat, never frozen, from our producers. At least at a double price. That's what I'd like. It's not a VAT issue, it's a question to address the role of the state in increasing the competitiveness of our producers. They don't need to be given something to the laws, we need to be able to be specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93993	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93994	Thank you very much for saying what the minister should have said right away. That these VAT measures are not helping Croatian farmers. They should have emphasized that immediately because imported meat will have the same VAT as domestic meat, right? So that story was immediately fog. That's what you call a smoke screen in a war when you throw a tank so you can't hit it. Drop it, smoke, you don't know where it is. Therefore, this VAT, pardon, change of this reform, as you called it, brings nothing for Croatian farmers but, in fact, they strengthen the import lobby. Because they won't, you'll buy Dalmatian prosciutto, but it's made in Italy. For what? Because the minister will only come to agriculture at the time of the election campaign. He'll go around from my Chitluk, but it's too late to see that he's so much like you everywhere, isn't it? So the fact is that you said what to say, what the minister should have pointed out is that basically this reform for farmers has nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93995	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For some time now in the Republic of Croatia, there has been a mantra that tax discharge will in itself lead to some major economic growth, on its own, without any further action, we will reduce taxes and that will be it. My answer is, that's not true. However, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the minister are just on the trail of this mantra today, and this package of nine tax laws, this package is just that, nine laws and nothing more, trying to portray it just as reform and discharge. In my debate, though, I will repeat once again, there is no real reform here, and the question is how much and real discharge there is, I will try to oppose this mantra that tax discharge alone leads to economic growth and thus a better state. In his opening statement today, the minister said that these laws would cut tax revenues by cca 2 billion and 700 million kuna, if I have misheard, please correct me, but it seems to me to be the number the minister mentioned. This means reducing capacity, the ability of the state to fulfil its obligations and fundamental tasks. Well, that's not what we're talking about today. We're not even talking about how the state will fulfill its tasks. How he'll carry out his duties. We are not talking about how tax reform will affect health care. You'll tell me now, you have there, will increase the contribution to health care. Yeah, but it'll shrink to protect health at work. It will increase for health care, but will reduce or abolish the contribution to unemployment. We are not talking about how this will affect education, and today you adopted in the Government the measure by which the allocations are foreseen for education in the Republic of Croatia in 2019, the same as the one you are predicting in 2022. as if there will be no inflation in the meantime, as if in the meantime there will be no increase in education costs because, for example, we need to get new and more modern equipment. Nothing. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials The country of health, the excuse of knowledge, you fuck that. We are not talking about how this tax discharge and the lack of these 2.7 billion kuna will reflect the country's ability to intervene in our economy when it is necessary and allowed to intervene widely, and we read about other countries, as well as the EU, intervening on the market and the economy with incentives that, for example, in Germany for electric cars are worth more than billions of euros a year. We are not talking about how this reform and this lack of 2.7 billion kuna will reflect the possibility of the state building and maintaining already built infrastructure, and we know that maintaining the existing built infrastructure is one of the major problems in the Republic of Croatia. When asked how this deficit will affect the functioning of the state, no one gives an answer. We're practically not setting it up because we live in the Republic of Croatia from a neoliberal and insolent capitalist mantra that only budget discharge will lead to everything being okay. We'll cut taxes, the state will pick less and that's it. And since the state will do its job, no one cares about it. We live today in a society where almost everyone in the public sector has been declared by ear. Everyone who pays comes from the budget is for this, at least one part of the public of Croatia's ear. And now I'm asking you, is the aunt in kindergarten an earring? It's not for me. I'm asking you, are they cops? Are the nurses' arrests? Are they teachers, teachers? Is there a doctor's ear that'll patch you up at 2:00 in the morning? It's not for me. And how we're going to secure the resources for their work, that's out of the question. Because these 2.7 billion kunas are going to reflect that, too. But first of all, we decided on a neoliberal policy, a policy that rests on cuts, called reform, and called discharge. And who does this really help? Does it help all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? No, I don't. It helps one percent, one percent of the richest. Because those who are rich and now, who already have the wages that cross those and us as Parliamentarians who are very well paid, will become even richer. The rest of the people of the Republic of Croatia are being thrown into the eyes of fog. They're told we're going to reduce VAT to certain products. For example, the minister singled out cancers, etc., meat, etc., which could be commendable at first sight, but not a single answer has been given to prevent this VAT reduction from staying in the hands of traders. Minister Tolusic, the deputy prime minister of the government, spoke about the public calling, Minister Maric today spoke about the market in his extensive opening statement. So says our worthy minister, such a market will only be regulated. And I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, how is that market only regulated after we've taken this measure, and it's not only manageable today. Well, a large number of Croatian products get cheaper as soon as we cross the border. In Slovenia, you will say there is a smaller VAT. But also in Hungary, which has a 27% VAT, Croatian products are often cheaper than in Croatia. And then you tell me that the market will only regulate itself and reduce the price. And I answer you, they won't, they won't. And the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, except for those who have the highest income from this tax, will not even feel a sense of reform. That's why I'm inviting you from the government, but also all of us MPs to try to change the paradigm a little bit, and to try something else from this concave proposal. Let's try to move to a society that will provide improvement for all its citizens. Let's turn to it, let's regulate how the citizens' money is spent. Let's move forward to promote whether through the state's action, through the creation of a system of e-citizens, we can further create certain savings that will eventually confiscate these measures. Because that's almost what we're not talking about. But let's turn to the other one. Let's turn to thinking about what these 2.7 billion kunas might spend instead of giving them to the richest and making them the same way Donald Trump does in the U.S. make them even richer. Because it's such a tax reform, on the trail of what the Republican party is doing today, headed by Donald Trump in the United States, which we almost all laugh at every day when we open portals or newspapers. Let's think about how we're going to get these 2.7 billion kunas back to the citizens another way. Let's think about not renewing daily hospitals and emergency care only through money from EU funds that is enough for an emergency aid tract such as the one in Osijek or two or three-day hospitals that are mostly in Zagreb, and rarely when and somewhere outside it, let's make sure the money comes from the RS budget. Let's get that money back to the citizens, let's make sure that those funds I talked about earlier for higher education don't be the same in 2022 as in 2019. Let's make sure that the conditions of work of our doctors, our officers, our professors, etc. They're better than they are now. Let's get these people to stay in the Republic of Croatia. We have succumbed to the mantra that the state will only be better provided that there is less income and less spending. But it's not like that. The state will only be better if the money it has is spent for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has not done so for some time, and this reform that you have proposed will make it even less. Let's think about how to invest the money we have in public infrastructure. Let's think about how to invest the money we have in public services, improve the quality of these public services, allow our doctors and teachers to work in a better workplace, for better pay, to stay in the Republic of Croatia. With this tax reform, if that's what we have the right to call it, we won't do it. And that's why I can't support her, so please, Mr. Secretary, don't go any further, take back what you suggested and think about how better to manage the money we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93997	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, I agree with you, especially in the introductory section that too much emphasis is actually being placed on some magical impact of tax or here, we will now reduce a certain tax rate from 26% to 24% or from 30, 40 to 36 and that everything will actually be stimulated by the investment climate and in fact what we do all the time is we put everything on one token and just spin tax certain changes. So, we welcome every reduction in tax burden. But what is the fact is that this government is exclusively playing on tax policy and that by reducing certain parts of the tax, it will affect economic growth. We know ourselves that this economic growth is already blowing up, so there's no more power, that it can't actually be influenced by tax measures and to say, pump the entire economy and there's no serious tax reform without spending cuts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u93999	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94000	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lalovac, that's why I'm offering a slightly different paradigm. If we promote all those countries that were forced into austerity measures, we can see that the results were not ideal. The inequality grew, their competence decreased, and mostly those countries that entered the sacrifice of savings ended up more or less where they were. And the countries that decided to think outside that box, outside the set frame, took a step and went on. What I'm talking about isn't just a mantra of left parties. For example, theresa May, who comes from a conservative party because she said they had to take radical measures if they wanted to make V.B. better. So if the conservatives in V.B. realize that without radical measures, V.B. will not be better, then it is something that conservatives or those who want to be shown in Croatia should also do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94001	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94002	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Grbin, I have to correct you when you were talking about that educational separation in 2021 will remain at the level of 2019, in fact you haven't pointed out enough how disastrous it is for the simple reason that instead of having a share of education and science in GDP or the budget growing, it is falling. So clearly that our budget will grow, it is clear that the GDP and the level of resources that we allocate for education will remain at the same level and thus we will continue to fall in relation to the EU and will not achieve the objectives set out in the strategy of education, science and technology. And secondly, when you talked about health care separations, we have an absurd situation that money in the health care system has never been again but at the same time the debts are growing, waiting lists are getting longer, doctors and healthcare professionals are leaving more and more for the simple reason that the greater flow of money in the health system should be monitored and the reform of the health system that is missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94003	Thank you. Answer, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94004	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, in 2019, envisioned a decision made today by the government, 43 million kuna, as much as foreseen in 2022. I guess our GDP in 2022 will be slightly higher, so of course the share will decrease, but also in Croatia inflation is now 1.5% to 2% per year. This means that 430 million kuna in 2020 is worth 5 to 6% less than it was worth in 2019. This means that it is planned to pay to plan to pay in the higher education system to stay the same and that means that they are actually worth less. And as I told my colleague Lalovec, so will you, we need a new paradigm and a new way of thinking about how we're going to see the state. Dispersion in itself as we are offered and promised here will not lead to the growth and development that Croatia needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94005	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94006	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade coat of arms, this reform that isn't reform is actually a big noise or why. So, as for income tax, the 20,000 richest will get something, a million and 600,000 employees won't get anything. Contributions go a little lower and go a little worse, therefore, there is no kuna for any citizen in Croatia. And the third thing VAT. The VAT should bring 73 kuna to the average Croatian household according to the budget. But everything you've said, I'm in full agreement. There's no guarantee that's really going to happen. There is no guarantee that the prices of the product will indeed be reduced. There is no guarantee that this large import dependence will not affect the way much of this VAT is poured over to foreigners, and that is that. So the effect is really minor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94007	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Greeks, that's right. So this reform we take the money and pour it into the richest pocket. The richest will become even richer, and who will bear the cost of all this? The state, citizens and what is almost not spoken of in Croatia, which is the quality of public services. All those public services I was talking about. The public service provided by the state isn't just when you show up on the counter, so someone's issuing you a document. The public service provided by the state is also the security of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia provided by police. Not only do we not think about how to ensure that they work in better conditions than when we look at these measures, we plan to reduce the source from which they will all be financed, including them. So this can't be good for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94009	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94010	Dear colleague Grbin, what he never lies about, doesn't lie to numbers and that's that in 2016. VAT reached 45 billion in 2017 47.6 billion, now in six months. 22.4 billion, with a $51 billion plan, I can also count your fees. In spite of the measures both in 2016 and in 2017, VAT cuts and reported budget cuts, you can see that revenue is also growing, public service. Of all this, over a billion and a half kuna has been invested in state hospitals. Is that something you can't see? Well, I think you can see that very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94011	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94012	Just because it's invested in public services, precisely because the state has taken care of, for example, better functioning of health care, you will, if you don't use the connection and hopefully don't use it, go to the hospital today and order an MRI there somewhere in 2021. 2021. For 2.5 years, you'll be waiting for a checkup. Is that normal for you? I don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94013	The next individual debate of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94014	I thank the Vice President, today we are discussing three laws, primarily the Law on value added tax on transport, real estate and excise duties. As for VAT, I find it odd for some to say hello, and against them, some say it's not good to cut, because it has no effect, I'm glad we don't increase. Because in 2004, VAT increased from 20 to 22 and then became 2 months later. He went back, sorry, he fell 22 to 20 so he went back linearly, which means the reduction effect wasn't, but that's why in 2013 we increased from 23 to 25 because we needed money. And I'm glad that it's not a linear reduction of 1%, and we're proposing it, but that what's most important for the citizens started, which is that we give the framework, that really food basic supplies are cheaper or cheaper. What my colleague Bulj was saying was that this applies to everything, that it applies to everything, but also to our producers who fill the shelves in Konzum and other trade chains. Their products will also be cheaper, and citizens will have more money left in their pocket. And citizens, they're looking at it as cheaply as possible. All the catalogues look, when it's on action, which meat where, when somewhere it's eggs on action and go around unfortunately, it's true. And the basic necessary intentions, should not be luxury, for us, the general VAT rate, for me and for some distant future, should become higher, which means for luxury, to be taxed, what is not a basic need everywhere. I have said it before, in Germany, are even some prices cheaper, and the standard much higher, or to the west in the European country. Why? Because it's precisely these basic intentions that are recognized as those that are broad consumption, and that's where the state needs to get as far away as the repression is concerned. And in general, so today we don't talk about someone being extra taxed. And in the last few measures, which began even in that government, while we were there, it was then seen that it might have been wrong with the repression, so it was fired through income tax to a certain extent, and that gave effect. And it continued extremely well in 2016, 2017 and today we have this case 2018 and will be again 2019. Because obviously our economy depends greatly on that consumption when you release a part of the money it goes back and multiplies. But all the changes that will continue, because today no one here will live worse and pay more taxes when these laws are in their own hands. No one. No one. And that's how it should always be. In the next 5-10 years, we have to commit, that no tax change or any other, legally, will go to harm employers or workers because it is to move forward. When we talk about VAT, it's good here, what's done before, that the threshold for entering the VAT system, raised from 230 to 300,000 kuna, and when it's looked at, it's just a question to me, how will this entry be made at the monthly level, we know that by the 20th, we have to report a VAT for last month. And since the first month of next month, it's going to break through, I don't know if it's the seventh, eight months. It doesn't matter what, 300 thousand thresholds. It may happen six working days, that someone issues a solution, that you now have to invoice your services or products with VAT. What about those services, the products that have already been delivered, i.e. the services that have been provided, which are done retroactively, means they are invoiced with the first for the previous period, during the following month for the previous period. How are you gonna look at that? Because in fiscalization, we know that we have to say the date when the service is done, it has to be an integral part of the account, along with the date of the account itself. I'm extremely interested in how it's gonna be. I understand why that is. It may be a little complicated, but I understand that we have a negative application of tax evasion, where people establish j.d.o. from year to year and only transfer to several businesses and then close these, go into bankruptcy and only, especially when we talk about catering and stay always within that threshold and are not in the tax system. However, I cannot possibly be satisfied with this practice, which today has, our tax supervisory authorities, in which, literally every time, if you ask for a VAT refund, which is not now, it is the last 10 years. If you're not looking, we won't come to you unless someone else comes after you, unless something else goes red in the IRS. And then what happens if I can't find anything, and that's great, when, because, as a rule, there's always something, inconceivably, different interpretation of tax regulations, I personally was the director of a society, where the same tax inspection, one year, gave positive, the other gave negatively, beware, the same thing, two different opinions, the same inspection. It will now wait 4-5 years for a second-degree settlement in the independent sector for the second-degree administrative procedure of the Ministry of Finance. Kadiya's suing you, cadiya's judging you. It needs to be separated. And with these, when the VAT comes... Then they kept that file for a year in the drawer, checked examples, I know people, they appeared bitterly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know these other situations again, where people are warned once, twice, three times, and then they should be punished. When someone systematically abuses the system and accounts in catering, he writes an offer, which he doesn't fisclize, if he asks you, I personally and experienced it. You're gonna pay cash? I say I will. Bring me the math of the nice one from the laser printer, the little one, the offer on it says the river, sir. Here you go, please. Offer. That's the kind of thing to punish. Because it's not an accident, it can't be 3 kn, it's intentional. And there should be no mercy. But for some other cases, absolute repression brings us nothing. And you should always go with a warning one, twice, and then if it's repeated, if it's malignant, if it's intentional, then you really need to punish it, and you need to be even stronger. As far as today's topics are concerned, I think you know very well what the factors of competition affecting, the efficiency of the public sector above all public finances, tax policies, the business sector, if we are talking about the labour market, we will have income taxes today and all this reflects on... A scale, here's only one information if it's good that I found, that by reducing real estate tax from 5% to 4% we've moved 3 places and we expect to do the same thing with this proposal from 4 to 3% that's in front of us today, and we absolutely need to say hello. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would only like to make a distinction there between the final and the temporary tax solution, approximately last year 78 000 final and 77-and-a-half provisional tax solutions were issued. What does "temporary" mean? It means that the tax administration gives itself time to estimate by comparing the value of whether something on the contract is written less than what it really is. And then you can do it later when you see it in that year or in that month about how real estate prices are moving in that location see if it's something that's falling off. Well, I think that's in principle fine, but for six years, that's not right. Because of course I hope to see the prices that were at the time of purchase, but also the state of property at the time of purchase. What's in the same building and the difference can be in flats per square and 100 and 200 euros, why? Because someone invested an additional 300 euros per square more than this initial, as shown in the apartment equipment, etc. You can also see that in the price of a shop. And if someone doesn't come out, it doesn't, it can happen that someone in 5 years, 3 years, 4 gets an extra solution where it's mandatory to pay in 15 days, so there'd like a little bit of that part, because it's written here if it can't be established in the law that then some expert will go out in the field or whatever, but it would be good to warn on the application that there's always a real state record to know later and that in one of the information citizens when they buy real estate that they always take pictures that, if they can't already pay the witch, if it's not a credit-bought apartment, then it's cash, especially that it's recorded precisely to avoid this kind of thing, but I think it's six years too long to wait for it. So, of course, we're satisfied that it didn't go into a linear reduction of 1%, but what has just been applied to basic foods, I'd like it to be expanded, that, besides fresh meat, meat processing, dried meat products, if you want salami and other meat products, to cover that part of the story more widely and to make up to another reading certainly calculations, which would mean, so if we're also talking about what hasn't touched both dairy products and certain milk products that are listed here in the law now that... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94015	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He is the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94016	Thank you. You mentioned the actions of your colleague Curaj, so, of course, people buy on the stock when we've just had some normal prices compared to the prices outside. So a kilo of apples is 10 kuna, and the purchase price is 2 kuna, what kind of margin is that, what is that? The margins of banks, the purchase price of capital is about 0% because such interest rates are on deposits, and the sales price is 3 and a half percent, 5%, 6%. in Germany, at that time 2% to 3% of the same loans. Here, banks earn 100 to 200% more on margins than in Germany, and you are guilty among other things, you and your coalition colleagues because you did not allow margins that were not agreed on, but were arbitraryly imposed and sent to the citizens to be ordered and to be within the frameworks in which they should be, in the initial frameworks. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decided this year, on the basis of one revision, that these margins were not valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94017	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94018	I thank my colleague Alexic, the first part might have been on the subject, the second part wasn't. Of course it's extremely important and every kuna to the one where it doesn't exist. And then he's got two kunas sometimes pay him a lot if he buys something on already. As far as the margins are concerned, of course we can't affect the market, but we can open it. I'd be most pleased if we wanted to talk about your subject, so let's do credits if we need our domestic, domestic banks, we know that they're mostly foreign property and 10%, but let's let's let's make sure we can raise the loans somewhere further, by 3%, and see how long they last up to 10% interest on loans, they won't. So let's see what we need to do to get the citizens out there to borrow, in the foreign banks, why not if it's cheaper there, if we're all one market. And I repeat this once again, every reduction in the cost of life is what is good and no one can say that it will not give effect in the ultimate line of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94019	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94020	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Curaj, you have overlooked one thing when you said this reform will not increase the burden in the country, it is simply not true and I am very emotional and sensitive to one thing that will happen, which is that 5 times, not 5%, but five times the flat tax per bed for 100,000 private renters in Croatia and I am surprised and indeed this time I am surprised that the government can even think of such a proposal, and especially when I heard yesterday that the money will go into compensation for 210 million kunas that local self-government must give up because the salary increases will be paid by 20,000 people with the highest salaries in the country. So you take a relatively low and medium layer, and you give it to the richest, of course we can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94021	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Curray, please let's not throw ourselves off the bench. Comrade Curaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94022	Thank you. So that's in this next package that we're going to discuss, not what we're discussing right now, what you said. If you really want to go to the tenants, then a range is put in to run units of local self-government. They'll determine, it can stay the same. [[5 times.]] Nobody says they don't have to. It can stay the same. So no, it's not true, the state didn't take anything. Will local administration units take something that's been around since 2006 and we know what the prices were in 2006, accommodation prices if you want. I think our citizens, unfortunately, know how much the prices have gone up, they, especially mine from Slavonia when they want to go somewhere to the apartment at sea. It is no longer 30 euros as it was 15 years ago but 70 and the tax remains the same. But even so, the local self-government unit will determine whether it will be 300 or 1500 kuna as you say times 5. It's a range that will be. But we leave that to local self-government units. Well, then change the chief who's gonna pick it up. ... She prescribed a range, not a commitment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94023	Please don't get off the bench. Let's not go from the bench. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94024	Thank you very much. Comrade Curaj, you mentioned several times today if a VAT return is required to necessarily go tax control. I have to admit that I don't have the experience that I'm usually looking for the book of U-RA to check out those allegations and apparently it depends on the tax administration or the area office. Therefore, whether it would be appropriate for those books to be delivered at the time of VAT return only in such cases where VAT returns are requested to be requested and the book of the U-RA is then to be submitted and not necessarily to any tax application must be applied to that document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94025	The answer of the esteemed representative Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94026	Thank you. Yes, of course it may not be for smaller amounts but for amounts it's certainly 100 thousand kuna and it's more absolute. A book of entry accounts you said and then of course I'm looking for, I don't think that's at all controversial. But my goal, too, was just to tell us to get out of here, so we're clear. That we can't have interference in channels where someone for 3 swears is being punished. It's inadmissible but then it needs to be clearly distinguished when going into stricter punishment, which is why, to absolutely know the rules of the game. Because many times we depend on some subjective assessment of whoever came to our custody. And you know one more thing, it comes to you in surveillance always in pairs and you mustn't go to the control of the one who's from the same place, he comes as the other and formally someone from the second place is the first. However, everyone who works, the other one who's following and the first one is just such a ficus. And we've made some form that you can't control a man from the same place and actually things remain much the same. So our goal is to make business better possible for entrepreneurs and to punish those who abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94027	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94028	Dear counterpart Curaj, we are here to discuss tax cuts, imposes on those who are properly registered and who are working neatly under the law. And I would refer to those who don't work under the law, who are not registered at all or registered as associations, only work on weekends. So let's remember last year was that club Super, Super, supposedly gay club where the tear gas was thrown at 3.30 minutes in the night and then our classy parliamentary representatives from Bernardic were then Glavasevic who defended the above mentioned club that there was Nazism, fascism, again at the act of terrorism and forgot to say that this club was working on black, that it was not at all, that it was reported for something else, that there were 450 people there that night, that there was surveillance coming on Mondays and Wednesdays and they were working on Fridays, Saturdaysadays, possibly on Sundays. They have thematic events that are not thematic events but work on black. Mr. Minister, that was last year, I'm going to ask what's wrong with that club, is it still working, is it working, is he paying his dues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94029	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. I would begin my presentation with what the minister is on several occasions during the morning and in the presentation and later on in response to the replicas, saying that tax reform, whose third round, cannot in itself be enough for an overall framework that would contribute to the growth of the economy, the improvement of life and the standards of our citizens. And that is so, and he's absolutely right, so I would add that, in addition to tax reform, we are bearing witness to other reforms in the Croatian society that this government is carrying out. As we know, pension reform is in the debate with the interested public, it was implemented in part through the spring and the mini reform of the judiciary. I would mention that, just by amending the executive law and other laws that we also discussed in the 7th month, for example, 50,000 less blocked in Croatia and 24 billion kuna has reduced our fellow citizens' debt. Therefore, we can talk about the reform of the road sector which has also been implemented and which is partly based on better, better, macroeconomic indicators in Croatia. But I'll talk about it later. What I want to say about the tax reform in the introduction itself concerns the fact that tax reform should be taken into account the context of fiscal consolidation of public finances in Croatia and that this ministry, this minister, has made a maximum effort over the past 2 years to deal with public finances, so if we want in much of that settlement and this consolidation is based on the first round of tax reform that took effect on 1 January 2017. In those past two years, partly thanks to the tax reform, the minister, when he represented the first round of tax reform, said that with his achievements around 0.5 will have an impact on GDP growth in Croatia, which apparently happened because during those two years, so macroeconomic indicators and I said thanks to tax reform are significantly better, we are witnessing continued GDP growth in Croatia, the second quarter of this year was 2.9 and we are significantly above the EU average when we talk about GDP growth, we are talking about a decrease in public debt in 2 years by 10% of public debt, we are talking about credit rating growth, the growth of credit ratings as we know have confirmed all 3 of the world's most important credit agencies, we are talking about a surplus of the state budget. Last year somewhere around 2 billion and 720 million kuna for the first 6 months of billions and 600 million kuna. So these are all macroeconomic indicators that say that the least we can say is tax reform in the first and second rounds has already been successful with other circumstances, other government moves, attracting European funds, other reforms that I mentioned earlier slowly define Croatia as a country of continued GDP growth, arranged macroeconomic, i.e. stable macroeconomic indicators, and thus we can talk about this third round of tax reform in the way the minister presented it earlier. So when I talk about these macroeconomic indicators, now I'm going to go back to that reform... The sector, that we witnessed 5 years ago, 6 of the government's proceedings, the government of Zoran Milanovic, who started to monetize Croatian highways, that because of what I was talking about and what these macroeconomic indicators contributed to, could have gone into restructuring of loans in the road sector, which was saved at an annual level of around 50m euros for now, which is not a small amount and none of us are talking about concessioning highways anymore, is no longer talking about monetisation in Croatia, but the fact that Croatian roads remained owned by the Croatian state and that we can go to further construction of Croatian highways. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To return now to what I wanted to say about the tax reform itself, when the minister announced a tax reform before summer then in a certain part, polarisation was created whether this reform must go towards reducing VAT as a regressive tax or more should go towards reducing labour costs, so according to these direct taxes, first of all, income tax, profit tax and contributions. As we heard a lot of debates and replicas during the morning about how we should measure with the EU countries that we should be an example of, when we talk about the tax system, I would say something that certainly goes in favour of this effort and this proposal, which is largely based on changes, i.e. a reduction in value added tax from 25 to 13%, and that this is the best way to say the data that these Member States of the EU have been doing this on several occasions this morning. So when we talk about these direct taxes, direct taxes, then Croatia is 24th place according to income tax and wealth, so Croatia is 24th place. Only 4 countries behind Croatia have a lower tax press in that segment of the tax. When we talk about social contributions, pensions, health and other income contributions, then we are here at 16th place. When we talk about VAT, we're in first place. So we're the state with the biggest tax press in regressive tax. And if there's something logical about me, then it makes sense that that tax where we're the biggest, where we get the most into our home budgets, our fellow citizens' budgets, that's where we should be directed. And this tax reform speaks of nearly 3 billion kuna as much as we would in the first and second steps, so from 1 January 2018 when the value added tax is reduced with... 13 on fresh meat, on fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, etc. Not to list all those products, products that will lead to reduction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I and then after 1 January 2020, when the general VAT rate decreases to 24%, it is quite clear, logical and when you look at this very third round of tax reform it is a normal sequence of these first two rounds of tax reform. When we look at what today in the country is taxing 13%, and what with 25%, you will see that this weighted, reduced rate of 13% is aimed at exactly what the average household in Croatia spends the most, because for the second one there is no money for luxury. On average, this rate of 13% is already on energy, on water, on the transport of garbage, on the transport of municipal waste, it is on milk, on oil, now on food, etc., and these products are mostly included in this average basket needed for the lives of Croatian citizens and we have been focused on this with these three rounds of tax reform. For this reason, this approach is completely clear to me and fully justified. I heard that this morning there were words, I don't have a lot of time, that at the SDP press he spoke about the needs of the reduction, the increase in the personal deduction of citizens, and one of the reasons why it goes into this is that the reduction in VAT does not mean that it will lead to a decrease in product prices because traders, producers can calculate it and do not reduce the final price of the product. Whoever guarantees us that in Croatia, for example in the real sector is paid, contracts in the net amount that, with an increase in personal deduction, there will be an automatic increase in wages. If the argument is that when the state reduces VAT, reduces the price of the product, then guarantees that by increasing personal gain, it will automatically lead to an increase in wages. Therefore, I think it is necessary to create that framework, which goes after that, that the normal system, the state create a framework, which will lead to a reduction in tax burden, citizens and entrepreneurs. And that's exactly the result, these three, or these tax reforms, I'm sorry I'm past my time, so I'm going to continue in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94031	Thank you. We'll stay longer than 9:00 in the morning. We've got a whole series of replicas. Let's start in a row. First up is Honored Representative Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94032	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bačić, you're talking about indicators that prove growth in the country, development, progress that HDZ is making, I think you're the only one who sees it. Don't talk about young people who went to Ireland, who went to Germany, don't talk about entrepreneurs who no longer have the workforce, so in the building they have problems, in some other activities to find a high-quality worker, they have to kidnap each other, and their companies will slowly disappear. Do not talk about people, who simply, for which and any nonsense, which stems from false and tax policies, but also from relations with them, close firms, buy their children and simply leave Croatia. Do not say that we are burned in a group with Romania and Bulgaria by development, we are at the bottom of the EU. We are not talking about 40 billion kuna stolen in Croatia annually from some foreign agencies, which were investigating it. And I couldn't get 20 seconds as much as my colleague Bacic yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94033	You can spend an hour as far as I'm concerned. We can be there by morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94034	Excuse my colleague Reiner, but I don't think you're equal to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94035	I'm equal to everyone, you're all extending a little bit, as far as I'm concerned, I'm saying again, we can stay behind 9, as it goes, and that's how it's likely. And besides, I didn't warn you, and you were talking about things that have nothing to do with value added tax or real estate sales or excise duties. But I didn't warn you, so, come on, let's be quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94036	My colleague Reiner, I'm sorry, I think I'm a representative of the Croatian people here and that my business is what I'm going to talk about, right, and it won't be up to you to tell me what I'm going to talk about in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94037	No, it's not, it's... It's about the subject being discussed, and it's certainly none of your business to pollemize yourself here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94038	And how do you know every topic, that we have come out of the matter, from where you are entitled, that you should always interpret the topic, and not that we are taking our own freedom?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94039	Don't pollemize your colleague Lenart with me, because you can't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94040	I can, because
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94041	.../Intruder Reiner: I give you a warning for that./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94042	Thank you very much for your warning, but every time you get involved with our discussions... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94043	Keep going, you'll get a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94044	Give me another warning, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94045	Here's a second warning and
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94046	.../Intruder Lenart: Thank you very much colleague Reiner, now you will be happy I will no longer speak in the Croatian Parliament./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94047	You can't talk anymore today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94048	Will you get me out of the assembly?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94049	.../Intruder Reiner: I will not have you./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94050	Come on, please... I'm a little harder than Mr. Pernar. It'll be a little harder for you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94051	.../Intruder Reiner: Calm down, please./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94052	Please, get me out of the assembly, come on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94053	Please calm down. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94054	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lenart, it is true, I did not say that in Croatia there is never a small number of unemployed. You know that 130 thousand are unemployed, at the same time over a million and 450 thousand employees. I did not say that the average salary in Croatia increased 720 kn, that the minimum wage increased 316, 320 kn, that the average pension increased by 6.5%. That's not what I was talking about. And I agree with you, I wasn't talking about spectacular results. I was talking about one continuous growth, which is about government work. And certainly, as you probably do, it hurts, it bothers me, every young man who has left Croatia, so all that is done is to enable them to stay and provide conditions, provides conditions where they could really stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94055	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94056	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you have now praised HDZ as he has done miracles in the Republic of Croatia and I can tell you that your policy is actually very nerdy, you work roughly, as if you're stacking up some dice and actually, the real, progressive, proactive policy, you don't know how to lead. You didn't introduce a tax on banks, you cut the profit tax by 10%, the whole 10%, the 2 percentage points, that's 10%. You did not make a promise from last July 2017, where you promised that the margins that the banks had unlawfully defined would finally be settled by legal provisions. You didn't do it. If you were proactive, if you were progressive, GDP would grow by 2-3 percent more points than it is now. You're not able to do this, you're just able to make your nerdy policy and unfortunately, it's not your honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94057	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Alexic, I don't know what this fall has brought you, when you're so in the mood to grade HDZ, I personally don't see myself with what and why and for what reasons. But I didn't compliment HDZ anywhere, I was just talking and repeating official data, which you must know very well. Where's HDZ? I don't have to say it, I guess that's what the rating agencies say, that's what they're saying, so they say that HDZ is way ahead of the rainbows, I don't need to repeat it, you know that. You may have a problem with, for example, changing the law of law and other laws have reduced by 50,000 blocked numbers, is that bothering you, perhaps? And you're building your political career on it, anyway. Do you mind if I cut the amount of... billions of Croatian citizens who are blocked, does that bother you, say, so that's why my speech bothers you? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94059	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94060	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have made a commendable statement about the overall reform of cestar transport. What we can only say means 5 billion euros in debt, about that. What's done? There's been a financial restructuring, a business restructuring, we see, so leave one man at the billing house, which when he gets sick, then it's all blocked. We're losing quality, it's in that, you have to understand that reform is not taking down the standard for citizens. Well, now we have a reform of the health system. Instead of reforming the health system, we will add money to them to cover up one piece, cover up, cover up, whatever it says, one part of the debt. When you come to my county, which, 200 000 million kuna HZZO owes to hospitals and health homes, it also affects the economy of which, of course, tightens their payments, affects the level of service, affects the morals of health care professionals who leave. Let's take a look at these reforms in the core as they are, not as they want to be presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94061	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Panenic, a presumption of the business restructuring of the cesar sector, and there was a collection of public finances in the Republic of Croatia. And it wouldn't have been possible to enter into financial restructuring if the assumptions hadn't been made on public finances, if the government budget deficit hadn't been stopped, we're in surplus today, that GDP growth isn't continued, that our loans and ratings aren't what they are. These were assumptions that Croatian highways, Croatian roads can enter the system. I agree with you. It's not over. The job there is the great Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure that now on such grounds they've got air, of course you can, if you could get into this second part but you wouldn't have this other piece if it wasn't for the fundamentally solved what the Government's task is... quality and macroeconomic indicators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94063	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94064	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, the standard of living of citizens moves slightly in a positive direction. As an entrepreneur, I can only say that, yes, this has its basics and has its reasons, if we paid 20% of entrepreneurs' profits, now we pay 18% or these small to 3 million 12%. It's a small reform. I hope it'll be less, that we'll pay 15 and 10% someday, but I understand that it can't be done so quickly. Why? Because these years we haven't gotten into the reforms at all, of course we've spent, we know the highways were supposed to sell everything, thank God they didn't, today we have hope to cover their expenses and make some money. We entrepreneurs and craftsmen got this bill 2.2 billion kuna, we're going to get it, and it's going to feel very big in entrepreneurship, who deals with it, of course, those who don't do business, they can't even know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94065	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94066	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Music, I agree with you, so now as if it has always been, we forget that tax profits have been reduced to 18% and 12%, respectively. We forget that in the first round of tax reform of 2 million and 700,000 taxpayers, based on income tax, millions and 500 00 were released. So all these measures that have been taken, which are for many citizens in Croatia, so for a million and a half there is no income tax at all and for millions and 200 are significantly reduced liabilities, we forget all together and today we are talking about something that this minister spoke about 2.5 years ago. Therefore, when he proposed it, the second law, the reform, the first round, challenged and he claimed that with that round, the first part of the tax reform would enable and facilitate business and entrepreneurs and increase salaries for Croatian citizens, and that is where you are right. So you can see the results anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94067	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94068	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, of course 6.3 billion kunas will be felt by both citizens and entrepreneurs. In the previous two years, we've felt that 4 billion-dollar discharge already through a series of measures. I will look back on one which you have also touched in your debate and these are units of local and regional self-government, or income from income tax which, with the beginning of the year, is... the central state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my county specifically for the month of February, it's 2 million kuna more in the budget, compared to the 2nd month. in the previous year. Of course, reduction of VAT to livestock. Last time and now a reduction to fresh meat, eggs, chicken, vegetables and fruits will be felt especially in the areas from which I come, where people certainly are being relieved very important and of course we should commend the dispensation of all life's needs, surely that we can always do better, I sincerely hope that this government will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94069	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members of the Maximchuk, yes, I think that few in this 2016 assembly when we seemed to be discussing this first round of tax reform in November, when the minister spoke of a new Law on the financing of local self-government units, which allowed decentralisation over billions and 200 million kuna units of local self-government, and few of whom believed it. They made a promise, a living joy. It was as I remember now, a deficit coming from the left-hand side of the assembly where it was said that it would now be taken and that it would never return to the local self-government, and now we testify that with this law that came into force on 1 January 2018, all units of local self-government, which you both said to self-government and local administrations, or regional administrations, bear witness to that. The tax press in Croatia and towards entrepreneurs and citizens has been reduced while tax revenues are growing both in the state budget and in the budget of local self-government units. Only this fact speaks of the correctness of the reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94071	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94072	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bačić, most of the salaries in the country are contracted as a gross one, not as a net. Therefore, this measure we proposed this morning will have, would have effect, unfortunately we are unable to make such a decision but therefore we urge you to seriously consider it until the second reading of this law. And one more thing, I call on you as the influential HDZ president and president of the HDZ Club to protect the tourism sector. That's what I'm saying, among other things, and as chairman of the Tourism Committee, not only because of what I said earlier, that five times the rate of taxation of private tenants will increase, but also because, within the term of the government's mandate, VAT is increased for catering from 13% to 25% because the increased residence tax is some kind of give, right? And because the tourist tax in the nautical sector has been increased by as many as 10 times for the largest ships. It's a blow to the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94073	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I think Mr. Curaj answered in the section relating to the tax or... in tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We will go through this first reading with a particular proposal that, I hope, my colleague Shucker will present in his individual debate, but it does not stand for the fact that the Government, or this Law, is changing or increasing rather than leaving the possibility for those whose income it is. You know very well that this is the income of local self-government units, and often it is not the income of a local self-government unit whose space is where this activity takes place because income tax is paid on the basis of residence rather than places where that income is collected. We will in this sense and go with a certain proposal, but it does not stand a fact therefore, that it is increased but enabled, since 15 years it has not changed, that it increases in this way... local self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94075	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94076	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I was not surprised by the debate on the other hand, when I know what they support and when I see what they do not want to support. So I'm going to read one statement after three years of the Honorable Vice President then of the Government and Minister of Regional Development. His evaluation of his work and what we had to listen to and support, here. It is important that we have succeeded what many countries have not, and that is that we have protected social costs from cutting social benefits and pensions, and that the minimum wage reduction is maintained, or that the standard of citizens found at the beginning of the term of office is maintained. So, after 3 years we were happy with a public debt increase of 20 billion a year, with a deficit of 17 billion a year, with everything they didn't want or could do and now what's OK and going for the benefit of the citizens, it's no good. But this was great, when we were in our third year at the beginning of the term we left behind. It's real, like. And the fall can be growth, we've heard the same thing. And a fall can be growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94077	Thank you. Next... No, no, let's not get off the bench. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's a good thing there's a google, so remind us of what we used to say. I'd just like to remind you of what the minister said and what I agree with. We must look at tax reform in the complexity of its implementation not only on the state budget, but also on how it affects the budget of local self-government units. How and how do the SDP proposal compensate the funds to local self-government units? This proposal is an absolute blow to the budget of local self-government units because the reduction of income tax exclusively goes towards the fiscal potential of local self-government units. I don't know if this proposal has been defined with the association of cities, municipalities and counties, so I don't know what they would say, but in any case what this government has given them through financial decentralisation, so it has left the possibility that some of the other things they've been given in jurisdiction in this way, this proposal basically puts them completely impoverished and needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94079	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94080	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, can you imagine... in this assembly that the bill of these nine laws didn't come? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How much of what this proposal says would come as a proposal from the other side? If that were the case, we can see for ourselves all these years when they were in opposition. They suggested something, when they came to power, I literally begged them, so suggest those laws that you proposed to us, here I will be the first to support them. That didn't happen. So just remember the stories with tourism. If I'm not mistaken, they inherited a 10% rate for organized accommodation, so full board. Where did this end at the end of the term? However, when a person makes an excessive proposal based on projections, an assessment of growth, estimates and estimates of income, and when what gives citizens and the economy 2 billion and 200 million does not take anyone, it is now suddenly subject to great criticism. But, Comrade Bacic, did you hear what today might have suggested what should be done instead? I'm not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94081	Thank you. Next line, please excuse my colleague Bacic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, fellow Shuker, I think that these nine laws have actually made it easier for us now for the next few months to cut the agenda points because these laws would probably be part of their political promotion, but in this way they can't accept what's good and rightly proposed. I remember at the beginning of the mandate, when the VAT increased from 10 to 25% that at the same time was reduced, if you remember the contribution to health insurance and it was like a compensatory measure that lasted very short. It came back to 15% very soon. Therefore, this wandering that was in those four years when it comes to tax policy is simply unimaginable and unacceptable. And now that that's going with one order, order, reasonable, measure by measure, circle by circle, you hear for yourself what on the other hand is going with proposals that would completely deprive one part of the budget of the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94083	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94084	Dear Representatives of Bačić, I'd like to tell you that my heart hurts because you're pretending to be some big friends of people, and we've seen you close the bars for the extra kuna. And that's exactly what the Ministry and that political party that created millions of missing, which knowingly, or legally, is illegal. I'm sorry that you tolerate everything to yourself, and other people's mistakes, their miserable failures, means whether the bill is a day in hand or thrown into the trash, you're closing people's bakeries, for that you're closing down the fish shop, the flower shop, you're turning to the weakest ones, and you're still serving the biggest ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94085	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I have the feeling that you are sorry that certain laws that you did not support seem to be good in the implementation and help many of our fellow citizens, whom you and your party have rightly represented, and we have found such solutions in a different way, and this shows new information that speaks of a significant number, a smaller number of blocked, about a small amount of debt done by our fellow citizens, and we will continue with this policy. You have heard that the Minister of Justice announced by the end of the year a complete executive law, which will make it clear that one trauma in Croatian society will end up being realized, and that seems to me to be the problem of the Living Wall, which is how we build weapons out of his hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94087	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94088	Thank you, Vice President, Comrade Bacic. The value added tax law and this part of the reduction in the rate to part of the food products in our HSS will not get the effects that everyone would want our citizens to live better, that their shirt will be richer for several reasons. The first thing that Croatia does not produce in the most part enough food for its needs is the largest part being imported. You can't control the shopping chains to lower prices to the level expected, from 9 to 10%, how much the VAT rate is down and most of them will be profited by importers, the trade chains that have already raised fruit and vegetables prices, you see it in stores, and our producers didn't have anyone to sell to. As long as the VAT rates on food products with neighbours Slovenia, Austria, Serbia, BiH are not equal, our people will go shopping there because they cannot afford it here. That's something to think about. They help and help agriculture to be a zero rate for those small family farms, as our president has already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94089	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We do not view the same things because political parties are each with their own programme, each with their own visions. But in this proposal to reduce the VAT rate from 25% to 13% for fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit and vegetables, I read, unlike you, promoting the national economy of domestic agriculture. More, we heard this morning and the minister in his replica goes after this and a certain rule that will come into effect immediately after the law enters into force, where it will further be strengthened, simplified, to be on the verge of fostering that domestic agriculture. I see this bill in that sense. And in order not to be good, to include whole and food products, dry meat, etc., there is still time to take this step by step.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94091	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94092	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry, there's no fellow Shuker who said there were no concrete proposals. I am convinced that he will support both of my proposals from my debate, and I will continue with what I started this morning when I spoke about VAT on medicines, once again stressing that the practice of a single rate of value added tax in EU countries is often, but let's just say that we bounce. I will repeat that all prescriptions paid by HZZO are taxed at 5%, while all non-receptive medicines that citizens pay for themselves are taxed at 25%. Otherwise, non-receptive medicines are essentially different from prescriptions only because after long-term administration of prescription drugs they have proved safe enough, effective that citizens can buy them themselves in pharmacyes without having a prescription. So even though non-receptive medicines are bought by almost all, so probably each of you bought sometimes a non-receptive medicine, yet their most common customers from vulnerable groups have chronically ill persons, parents who buy for their children and elderly. The use of non-receptive medicines in elderly people is also particularly pronounced in passive areas where older citizens may find it harder to reach a doctor because of their distance and their pharmacy is often more accessible. Of course, a possible problem with excessive or wrong medication or drug interaction, but that's another story I wouldn't be burdening you with right now, but I would point out that it's 2015. HZZO issued a self-help guide to acute and emergency conditions and non-receptive medicines with the aim of educating citizens in certain situations, without burdening the urgent help of a doctor and general medicine, buying non-receptive medicines and thus helping to treat certain conditions, pains, heartburns and similar conditions where such non-receptive medicines can be used. So in order to stimulate such responsible behaviour, I believe that reducing the VAT rate would be a favourable measure. I must remind myself once again that the HZZO budget is mostly filled with the contributions of persons employed and the work of the pensioners, while the rate of tax on medicines that pay themselves is fivefold higher than those paid by HZZO. So once again I have to repeat this paradox that what I showed you this morning, there are medicines under protected trade names that are exactly the same, which are sold in the same gramamage in two different packages, where one pack that goes on the prescription is taxed at 5%, and this one that citizens buy themselves at 25%, so that today the example I showed you of the wounded that the citizen, who pays, buys alone without a prescription. One such tablet costs 4.5kn while it goes through HZZO costs 2.4kn. Therefore, it is very important to stress this opportunity to talk exclusively about non-receptive medicines and not about various supplements and dietary supplements. So also the coalition of associations in health care and association of patients and Croatian pharmaceutical society, family medicine associations believe this would be a good move and should introduce a single rate of 5% on all medicines, both prescription and non-receptive. What I particularly want to emphasise is that the aim of this measure is not to increase the consumption of non-receptive medicines but to make them more accessible to all those in need and thus to reduce the impact on their home budget. I do not have to repeat that in the treatment of various, severe and chronic diseases, there is also a need for supportive treatment with the underlying treatment of diseases which in a large number of cases refer exactly to the treatment of non-receptive medicines that such patients must then buy, pay themselves and thus burden their budgets. What I end up saying, I believe, is that this measure, so the introduction of a single 5% tax rate, would be one measure that would show the country's greater social sensitivity to the sick and thus make it easier for patients to have other, vital, irreplaceable medicines available for treatment in Croatia. And secondly, I'm glad to have my colleague Schucker back, so we witnessed last year a sports initiative, the Opatija Initiative, named after the city of Opatija, where representatives of 5 team sports gathered together, gathering about 230 thousand active athletes, and who have proposed a whole series of measures to ensure better funding of sports and the possibility that as many young people as possible are engaged in sports and that their parents do not have to pay membership fees at the same time so that these children are engaged in sports, which, in fact, creates an obstacle to being sportingly active. We also recently received a series of proposals from the Central State Sport Office relating to tax discharge and so the proposal relating to amendments to this law, the Value Added Tax Act, which is listed from the State Sport Office because of the importance of sports for society as important have cultural events for which two reduced value added tax rates for cinema tickets and tickets for concerts are applied and a reduction of VAT rates for tickets to sports events. We also propose to include tickets for sports events in Article 38(2). The law on value added tax and the same taxation with a reduced rate of 5% and a movie ticket. Here's hoping my colleague Shucker will support both of my initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94093	Thank you. We've got a few replicas on your exhibit, too. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jovanovic, you have denied the other side when they talk about us being senseless and that we have no proposal. But, you know, I'd like to remind both you and the entire Croatian public about what we witnessed while HDZ was in opposition, and that was so much style and so much willingness to consensus that even a report by the Ombudsman was rejected and only because HDZ wasn't in power. They weren't interested at the time, let's say for example, he wasn't interested in the facts, then he wasn't interested in what the report said, he was against the report because HDZ wasn't in power and so on in a whole series of other examples. Every time, every consensus we've offered and I'm going to remind you of the education development strategy. We followed all the suggestions, we accepted all the criticisms, we put everything in the proposal because HDZ was eventually in favour. You remember very well that it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94095	The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94096	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. Well I think it's one thing, it's a tragedy actually of the Croatian Parliament. And that's what I'm saying now is it's a tragedy no matter who's in power. So we still haven't come to that level of consciousness that we're not assessing the proposal on whether it came from the opposition or from the majority side when we're in power because, as a general rule, most of us rarely accept opposition proposals. So none of the proposals that came into this session were accepted by the majority. As for the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology, however to be correct, HDZ was not against, it was abstention. But he was restrained because he felt that there was not enough money provided to implement the Education, Science and Technology Strategy and now that they are able to secure these money they do not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94097	The next replica is the respected representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jovanovic. Well, yes, you said two concrete proposals. I hope the government will consider them if and that we will go with the amendment if necessary, especially because we all like to boast at international meetings these days and even in New York about the successes of our athletes as much as they promote sport, how important they are as in diplomacy. And so we certainly think that these sports events should be accessed and Croatian citizens more accessible, to be, I don't see why Americans don't know through their movie tickets and lobby around the world that tickets can be so low. We agree to that, we accept that, and I don't see anything controversial about it. However, I do not see anything that sports events would not be available to Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia and that they would not be at lower rates. And certainly your comment on the opinion because we see that there has been an increase in the contribution to health care, where these reforms are in health care and where these money will go further, will it be necessary for a few years to re-enlarge the rate of health contributions perhaps now with 16.5... 18%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94099	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94100	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. Well, that's one of the key dilemmas that exists, so I believe the day no one in this room will ever vote that health care has more money. However, health care has never really had that much money in the last few years, but at the same time it does not follow better health care. However, we have recently received defeating information that in Croatia the second time the life expectancy has been reduced in 3 years and 3 months. So, instead of taking more quality health care from year to year, the means that we have at our disposal are longer we are one of the few countries that in Europe life spans not longer but shortens it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94101	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94102	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. We have before us something called informally the third round of tax reform, a total of 9 laws, on the table each of us who wanted to get a bunch of papers to study, the reform reportedly began on January 1, 2017. On 1 January 2017, it was nothing special, the citizens felt no improvement, except that tourism was then damaged, which was increased by those who already had high salaries and the tax on first real estate paid to young people, which was not until then. In this tax reform, some useful measures, such as abolishing labour protection and unemployment, will not be tax-free for parents whose children receive a scholarship, that is the same measure that we can welcome, more VAT rates are introduced, including reduced meat rates, diapers, eggs, fruits, vegetables, live animals, and the reduction of the total VAT rate since 1 January 2020 will be 24% since then. It also announces a fairer VAT charge, less tax evasion, although there are still lots of holes and too much Minister Maric knows very well, there will be a little less bureaucracy, a few forms will be filled out, the property tax will be reduced from 4% to 3%, and that would be the positive things I mentioned in the introduction. And if that were all the content, then we could say okay. It's skinny, but still some tiny shifts, but it's something, maybe we could support this, maybe we could raise our hands from the Living Wall for this kind of reform, but unfortunately that's not all. There is a second part of tax reform that reduces these measures or completely cancels and actually calls for reform, delegates as a step back, insufficient to change anything more significantly in the supra-al reality of the Croatian economy and society in general. First of all, in your program, gentlemen who you have called pretentiously credible, you have clearly written that in the second year of your term of office you will reduce the overall VAT rate to 24% and in the last year of your term of office to 23%. You didn't make that promise, why you promised it, I don't know. It may really be a reduction in VAT is not the best measure, but those are your words. I am obliged to ask you now, Mr. Maric and all your representatives, why did you give it up? And will you now apologize to the Croatian public for your false promise? Here. We had a case where Agent Pernar said something wrong in the Parliament, and he apologized publicly, publicly apologized. He, whom you dare call a populist, apologized, and Minister Maric, when I ask him that, immediately grabs his cell phone to type messages. Excuse me, sir. Set new rules in Croatian politics because if you make false promises then you can call it whatever you want, but not credible. Then you can't call the program authentic. Then change the name of the program and tell the voter's deception, one we're talking about, the other we're doing. We see problems, but we don't practice them. You wrote yourself that VAT is huge. It was not written by Branimir Bunjac, nor Ivan Pernar, your words. Please respond to the Croatian public. Secondly, the fact that you reduce VAT has no guarantee that any family in Croatia will feel it. Why? Because the abolished financial police, however, did not eliminate HDZ, it was true, but twice abolished the SDP that had 141 employees and whose task was to correct prices according to tax changes and they would surely go to trade and where they should and would correct those prices, but they are no longer there. Why did they bother you? They bothered you because they forced tax collectors and started 1,500 criminal charges. That didn't suit anyone. Well, then let's get rid of them. These inter-steps that you introduce do not include everything that the average family needs, let's say milk processing, honey, you have the attorney general's application, it's not whoever, to lower the energy price, to make the heating cheaper, to reduce VAT. Says the representative... We've increased by 6% of the pension, wow. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And how much has it collected since 2000? 100%. The cubic meter cost you a kuna of 45, now it costs 2 kunas on 90th of April 1, 2018. You will collect the gas by at least 10%, why don't you prevent these things? You're the same as the Oilman, and I don't care when he gets here, we're gonna turn that off, but unfortunately, the heat can't go out. That's what we should do, or people die. Do you know how much it cost a liter of gasoline in 2000? He knows Mr. Shuker, 4 kn, it's 10.5. How much was the head of the salad, butter? 2 kn 2000 now costs 20. Ten times he's raised his life in Croatia, and you say 6% we've increased. You don't follow reality, you don't live in reality, why don't you lower VAT on all the food? It's enough to go to Slovenia, an hour to Hungary, not far, we have a highway, so look at the VAT on all the food, Austria 10%, Slovenia 9.5, Hungary 5, Italy 4, Poland 8, Romania 9, with us 25%. Croatian product in Slovenia costs less than in Croatia, as it is less VAT. And why our people, watch out from like go to Italy, he's worth losing all day, to go buy food in Italy, or to go to Hungary, Bosnia, Serbia, wherever. Wherever prices are lower than in Croatia, with us prices are savage, savage, I guarantee you that no post-Communist country has such prices as in the Republic of Croatia. You will introduce lower VAT on liquid eggs. And you think that this will improve the standard of Croatian citizens. Be competitive. What's concrete? Mr. Shuker will sell apples for five kn, I'll sell for six. The plague will buy people? Well, from him. That makes sense, 'cause they're cheaper. Why do we have anything more expensive than neighbors, so where are people going to buy? They'll be shopping outside instead of coming shopping here. That's your key word, your competitiveness. Competitiveness. That's what you're talking about, but it's the same thing to you, to mention something completely abstract, a reduction in VAT, you want a larger amount. In any way higher VAT uses exits, in any way. It's completely irrelevant. Therefore, in this segment of this first VAT law, I will try to look back at the others, because as far as I can see, it will be a long evening, you simply have no answer, you are not offering the right solutions, and it is just an announcement of this reform as completely missed measures. But I'm saying, we're gonna have more time to discuss, so much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94103	Thank you. We have one replica, my colleague Pernar's only reported twice, but he can only have one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94104	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Bunjac, you mentioned a reduction in VAT from 25 to 24%. Here, I'll tell you that in 2009, the HDZ government increased the SDV from 22% to 23%, and then in 2012. SDPs, increased from 23% to 25%. Now HDZ's government is down 1%. It means reforms in this country in this last 10 years. It comes down to VAT being increased by 3 percentage points, then reduced by one. These are reforms, which HDZ offers to citizens and which represent as something that will solve problems. And unfortunately, it will not solve, because the basic problem of Croatia is not further VAT 25% or 24%, but as monetary policy. And you're the monetary policy, which the CNB is not changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94105	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94106	Thank you very much, Agent Pernar, in your short replica, which is unfortunately reduced to one minute, you touch the essence of the problem, and the point of the problem is that we actually have a completely wrong model of economy in the Republic of Croatia. That's the point of the problem. That you're simply trying to do something like this, so where there's only a big capital that's being favoured and where all the burden is being shifted to the back of citizens, simply, in itself, won't have a more significant impact. But it would be such measures, as you would suggest, and as advocated by the Living Wall, the HDZ Government would not implement if they were in power for 100 years because they had no contact with reality. They simply see no further from their red carpets and expensive cars, which are constantly rebuilding the rolling stock. They do not know how Croatian citizens live, i.e. their view extends to the stone doors, and this is where it is suddenly read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94107	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94108	Dear ladies and gentlemen, these reforms represent, two steps back, one step forward. Here, I listed it earlier in 2009. VAT increased from 22% to 23%, from 23% to 25%. It's now shrinking from next year from 25 to 24%. Then you have a reform, where you cut the VAT for the unscrupulous, the shrimp, the slaves, and I don't know what not, lobsters, and it's like it's going to save the citizens who dig through the trash, like they're eating those queenless, I don't know, nice softs, whichever. And at the same time, you raised VAT to the guests twice as much as my dear Minister Maric, from 13% to 25%. What fog, what fog. If we had fog bottles, you'd be the best salesman here. Why? Because you managed to convince the public that you did something concrete, and I'm telling you you didn't do anything. It's like now when you say that the sales tax rate is 3%, and you don't say that a year ago, you said that everyone who buys the first real estate will have to pay that tax that they didn't have to pay before. All of your reforms are reduced to spilling from hollow to empty. Minister Marić, I speak to you, and I am aware that you are not listening to me, that you are not interested in what I am telling you, but this is not funny to Croatian citizens, this is a very serious issue for them because it is a question of the survival of our country. And that question will be decided and resolved only when the central bank is touched. The CNB policy, where the CNB is the exchange office, where the external debt flows into the internal one, where the debt is simply generated by momentum. We have a system in which in order to maintain monetary mass in circulation, we must be in infinite debt. And why is that? Because every time we borrow money from the outside and put it into circulation, we have to get it back increased by the amount of interest and we have to keep the exact amount of money in circulation more and more in debt. Why? Because money always goes to the head and interest payoffs. Always the principals and interest and then the bigger and bigger credits that are again being charged with interest and what is said to be a grain per grain – a cake, a stone per stone – a palace, so unfortunately we are leading the kuna policy per kuna – a billion kuna, a billion per billion – a hundred billion kuna. It's simply the debt that will match the whole society. This is why creditors seek privatisation of highways, HEPs, etc. And if VAT is going to be 1% bigger or smaller, that's a great thing that you've cut. I congratulate you on reducing from 25 to 24%. I congratulate you on your decision to cut your real estate tax by 1%. But what's it worth if, at the same time, you've paid VAT to the caterers? If you've never paid a real estate tax before, now they have to pay 3%. What is worth to those who, for example, pay a residence tax that will have to pay a much higher residence tax. Every time you give something, you just think about the other way you'll take it. And then when you take, you take, you take, you take, you take, you send, Mr. Maric, from the Ministry of Finance, people into inspections, to control where they harass people. So imagine someone entering your bakery, that you may lead her, that you may issue an account, but throw it in the trash can. And you say it, so it is, because why? Because people don't take bills in a bakery. Yes, Mr. Maric. Well, it's not bread like a car or I don't know what you need for service, that you'll advertise that product or whatever. Buy bread, eat it within two days at the latest or three. Depending on how much you eat it. She told Milanovic's wife that she should cut into thin slices. But what do I want to tell you? What I'm trying to tell you is that you're having fun with the kid. It can't happen, it can't be done. It's a shame. And why is it a shame? Because when you are rigorous or strict toward others, then you should be both rigorous and strict toward yourself. Otherwise, you're a hypocrite. This country, her biggest shame is to punish people for having a surplus in the register. Because you only have a shortage in the register. You've got billions missing in the register. You're not in a position to bring public finances into order. What you're doing is this, the state raises 10 billion credits to refinance debts in highways, which the state itself will repay, but you're not leading it as a government debt, but a debt highway. Even though the state took those loans and they'll pay back those loans. So let me explain where the logic is. As you explain, it's like I'm taking some credit and I'm the one returning it, but I'm saying, but it's not my credit, it's a loan from my colleague Branimir Bunjca. Well, everyone would say here that I'm not normal, that I'm crazy, that I'm making fools. But you're doing exactly that kind of politics, Mr. Maric. And as my colleague Bunjac once said, he won't stop that robbery as long as you and your colleagues are in power. It'll just keep going, and you say, let's say, you've abolished the employment contribution, but you've increased your contribution to health insurance. Well, that's the point of the whole story. Or I don't know, disability, whatever. You take one measure, you take one, you cut one, you increase the other. And I'm saying, that's how you've been going from hollow to empty for years while people leave the country, until children are born, but the biggest fog, the biggest deception you're doing, is calculating the communal contribution per cubic. That's scary. It's like people make pools, not apartments. It's the size of the apartment. Well, no one buys an apartment in a cubic, Mr. Maric. No one buys, no one asks since it's a cube apartment. Everyone's asking since it's a square apartment. And then the ones who build apartments go after the flats to have as little cubicity as possible. They're trying to lower ceiling heights so they don't have to pay a bigger communal contribution. So where, where's the common sense? I was in occupied Palestine. There they pay 20 shekels per metre square, not per metre cubic. And that's Palestinians in occupied territory. And I'll tell you one more thing. In eastern Jerusalem, where people live under occupation, there's no one harassing the Palestinians with fiscal registers, no one. There's no fiscal registers. You've presented us with these fiscal tills as some kind of rescue solution. So who did those fiscal cashiers save? You'll say, they've increased VAT collection. I don't know what your explanation is. So you're actually juggling all the time, which is because you don't have a vision, that's because I said because the main problem, the role of the central bank, you can't and you can't question it. And you'll be serving that system you know until when? Well, like your boss, as long as your system runs down your hair. But you'll see at some point that the credit system grinds everything in front of it, that it creates problems and that we're all expendable goods together. And when the country is in trouble, when a property tax will have to be introduced according to the creditor's directive. Maybe they'll ask you for responsibility. And perhaps you will be sacrificed, and they will blame all of it on you. They'll say, "That's what Minister Maric was." I invite you this opportunity to stop participating in the game, to resign as Minister, to sit with us in these benches and to bring this system down together that will not bring anyone good, no one. The fact that I'm going to have a salary greater than 1,000 kunas or you 1,500 or 2000, it won't save, it won't solve anything. I also explain why, because you raise the price of water, electricity, gas, heating and toll by 20% and then increase your pension to someone by 16 kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94109	We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94110	Dear colleague Pernar, the average salary in Croatia is 6 thousand 352 kuna. But there's another term called media pay, and it's 5200 kuna. And that means that half your salary in Croatia is lower than 5200 kuna. Interestingly, this 6300 figure is actually knocked up by these highest salaries, which has an extremely small number of Croatian citizens, while most of Croatia's citizens actually have a very, very low salary. With the fact that I have to mention here that the minimum wage prescribed by law is 2700 and something kuna. So here's just one question for you, I know, I guess what you're going to answer is whether it's enough 2740 kuna or 2750 kuna for one man's life or twice as much for the life of a four-member or five-member family.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94111	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94112	Mr. Zekonović, you asked the central question, can you live in Croatia from 2700 kuna? I personally think he can't, but there are people who think it's normal. I remember when my colleague Bunjac said that 100,000 pensioners had a pension of 500 kuna or less. And then said HNS representative, says but that's our reality. Imagine, whose reality it is, whether it is the reality of Ivan Vrdoljak and society around him or whether it is the reality of the Croatian poverty. Unfortunately for those people who have the least salary for them, you've done absolutely nothing, or you've done very little. You care about the lower ones like last year's snow. Remember them only when the election comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94113	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94114	Thank you very much. My colleague Pernar, you're talking about the CNB, so they're doing some people, and here's the governor has conducted a master's competition for a chef who's going to love wine food, so wine food, needs employees, cooks to serve it, how he can make white fish with white wine. So he's in, he's got 621 employees. And he has to pay himself whatever he wants to pay his employees. Well, isn't the governor doing something? Well, didn't the governor do something unimaginable, everybody's calling on the European Union, 10 billion kuna, the currency without cover was used by Agrokor, 10 billion. And that's why they rewarded him on that day, rewarded him that this government, the minister who's now escaped here, rewarded him. She named him governor the day Croatia-English played. He was supposed to be in prison because the monetary system of Croatia and stability had disrupted but he chose the master, chefs, kissing wine, creamy and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94115	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94116	Dear colleague, when you said that there are employees in the CNB whose exclusive duty is to make sure that wine and fish or meat and other food are loved together, they actually show how far these people are from reality, how much they don't really understand how the Croatian people live or other social problems. Unfortunately, instead of thinking about society, to deal with the issue of monetary policy, to make monetary reform, to ask for the abolition of the currency clause, they deal, they deal, they deal, here as well as the minister of crossover only those, though they do not cross from hollow to empty, they have full bottles of wine, they have full trays of fine fish. And here, I'm glad, this reform will now reduce to 13% of these slaves, and there will be savings in the CNB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94117	The next individual debate, I hope, on the subject rather than off topic, will be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we here today in this first package of tax changes are discussing three very interesting laws. Two laws that generate virtually half of the revenues of the state budget and the laws that regulate two taxes that are basically the favorite of each minister of finance and each government. And the third one is the one that practically left this government in tax changes last year to local self-government units. But I'm going to focus my debate a little bit in the other direction and try to locate it on what the bill is. Well, it would be very interesting to see how much VAT and excise revenues were made a few years ago in the state budget. So you'll see that there's been a significant leap without any increased tax burdens. And why did that happen? It happened on the one hand as a result of positive economic developments in the Republic of Croatia and increased consumption of both state and state, and when we talk about increased consumption of citizens, then we clearly say that something has happened in income available to Croatian citizens in the last 2 years, 3. So on the one hand, the average wage has increased, but on the other hand, this government has actually carried out one relocation, a different redistribution of income, and one income that previously belonged as part of public income, it has rerouted to citizens. The result of which no one can dispute is revenue from the state budget as regards VAT and excise duties. It's something that's irrefutable and what's a fact. Now, is the proposal of these laws and I'm going to try to concentrate on only these three, came by chance or he came as a consequence of certain analyses, evaluations, evaluations and projections and even the documents we had the opportunity to discuss in the High House. He came as a consequence. Now, colleagues and colleagues, is it right for those who run, who manages to suggest what, how, and in what direction will tax policy go without staying in those fiscal frameworks that are being set? I think he's got that right. This government and the finance minister sent a proposal on, I said it in a replica, which colleagues from the current opposition when they were in the past times in the opposition very often suggested that it happen. However, neither fiscal nor financial or budgetary opportunities were such as to do so. Today, when proposing something that should have been an alternative when Croatia had to abolish the zero rate on bread and milk and raise it to 5%, due to the role of joining the EU, some evaluations and assessments when negotiations were held with the EU that this would then be replaced by some differentiated rate and diet. So a few years after that, this government suggests it. Did we here today in this assembly discuss that we consider apart from what counterpart Jovanovic mentioned and I will later, that we should not introduce a differentiated rate on these food products and that something else should be done. Then it would be a serious political debate because look, you, with this differentiated rate, practically direct a billion and 400 million kunas that will have to spend Croatian citizens less on buying food products. And instead of today, no matter what political option we belong to, we each say in our speech that we think traders are responsible and that these 12% points that the state has given up in favour of citizens, that they will do and respect, no, what do we say? No, they're not gonna do that. How are they not gonna do that? Well, they have instruments to control, they need to be publicly called. We need to call them public, so that's why we're here, not to call each other public, but to call out to the public those who don't adhere to laws and regulations. We have our own decision to vote this law, a billion and 400 million kunas that have been paid by Croatian citizens so far when they bought these groceries, we say no, we give it up but we believe that those who supply Croatian citizens will also reduce prices and thus remain in the pocket of a billion and 400 million kuna. If we discussed it that way, we'd send a clear message. However, very interestingly, one provision of law which I find very likable, very nice, but today no one has mentioned it here. These are simple companies that used the possibility because in 2012 someone because of the liberalisation of the establishment of companies, etc., by advocating how entrepreneurs go hand-to-hand, made it possible to establish and based on the current VAT law, it is said that only next year if you exceed that amount of £200,000, you are obliged to enter the VAT system. What did they do? Start a company, work with him until 11, 12. I mean, the fat exceed 300,000 kuna, closed up, opened up next year, and that's how it works. So this is the measure proposed by this government and you said no more. The first month after it is established that you have crossed 300,000 kunas, you must apply, you must enter the VAT system. It could have been done by the Government before, why didn't she do it, I don't know, but I'm saying, it's one of the most important measures when we talk about protecting Croatian consumers, actually consumers and entrepreneurs because if he fooled the state, he fooled someone worse in the jargon and someone else from whom he received some kind of service on a product. And that's what our colleagues and colleagues were supposed to talk about today. We should have said that we noticed that this was happening because probably every one of you is one of your friends, colleagues and acquaintances talking about this. But to this day, no one has mentioned, and that's what's not good because we have to talk about such things. I'm convinced that at least two, three trade chains will compete, you'll see their ads and everything, we'll take down the price from 1.1% points. Make sure he does. But we, as advocates, have the opportunity to say that behind this pay phone. We didn't say that. But I repeat, the government has come to the conclusion, based on its projections, estimates, growth and everything, that next year, a billion and 400 kuna can be rerouted to Croatian citizens. As for excise duties, too. My colleagues and colleagues, how many times in the Parliament for Daily Political Needs has been a question that needs to be freed from excise duties, one way or another, as you have heard from the MPs today, I think that fellow Panenic mentioned something, no one else. So is it a shame to admit if someone did something good, they didn't? We just need to talk about the subject that's written. And third law, real estate tax. Look, when that tax fell from 5 to 4 percentage points, then it's said, uh, the incomes of the local self-government unit will be reduced... But when you look at it, the revenues went up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now a reduction from 4 to 3% is proposed. For the simple reason, the real estate market has come to life. That 1% will come in handy to someone who buys a house or an apartment another time. But I know that counterpart Panenic will now say, it goes to the burden of the local self-government unit. It's going to go, but it's going to make up for some other income. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, remember what happened when this reform took place. Then the local self-government units will be damaged, this-that. However, what happened in the 2018 budgets with local self-government units? All units of local self-government, especially those with lower wages, are very good at budgeting. Far better than they expected. That's a fact. A fact we can't escape from. Now it's just that the question is whether we're ready at a given moment, if it's something good, and if someone is suggesting something that I thought should be public in this assembly, that's good, we support it, but we're asking that those to whom it applies stick, otherwise if not, let them get this way, we can get to them. No, we're not doing it here today, we're looking for a thousand and one way to say that something's not good, which is good. Because if everyone's said so far to introduce a differentiated diet rate, if that's what they're proposing now, then I don't see why it's not good. That's why, colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry, it's an honor. Next year is a new stage where additional amounts of money are being directed towards Croatian citizens, and this will be felt in revenue because if it did not happen, excise income would be what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94119	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94120	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Shuker, it is good that the incomes of local self-government units have increased because that previous tax reform was at the expense of the local self-government unit, but this one should, because of the public, know that because the salaries of those who already have high salaries will get 210 million kunas in municipalities, cities and counties less in their budget because it is again a burden on them. Perhaps this could have been avoided and left that income to units of local self-government in another way to help the rich they already have. And what we've suggested is that this differentiated rate on food products be wider because what we're proposing is a little bit. It's good that it's that much, but it's small, especially that the lower rates are in the environment and our people are going to buy outside the Republic of Croatia and they're not going to get the effects and we're proposing on behalf of the HSS together with the Chamber of crafts to get back to VAT hosts from 25% to 30%, 13% because they're buying exactly from these OPGs. They won't buy hotel chains from our O.P.G. This will also preserve domestic production and jobs in these catering facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94121	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94122	Comrade Vlaovic, you are the last three or four years in favour of a lower rate, a differentiated diet rate. And it's something like that. But that's why I said in my opening section that the government is based on fiscal policy guidelines, based on estimates of how much revenue growth has come to this legislative proposal. That's what you brought in the price. So when you're making some kind of suggestion, then you should say it costs so much and so much. Now, either we increase the deficit by that amount or we take someone. The third is a possibility you don't have. That's why I tried, starting with my debate from the beginning that the government is in line with the current possibilities, and I ended up hoping that next year we'll take the next step. I think that's what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94123	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94124	Comrade Shuker, you have begun with several phrases of the ruling. Growth, growth, more funds in the budget than VAT. It's facts, arguments. Economic growth. Do you know how many people have moved out in the last year? Over 100,000 people. Everyone's gone to make some money. And that money, those Euros that earn hard to send to their families. And of these funds are being paid... Everything this government has helped to hire, to increase employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it really that low employment in the Republic of Croatia? Do you believe it's accurate data or have people gone outside? So we wiped ourselves out of the Bureau. So these phrases aren't true, and you can see it on the ground, there's no companies in empty areas, there's no investments, there's no people, there's no man on the ground. It's not just the country's surface, the terrain. It's the man, the people, the population. That's a fact, if it wasn't for these couples on the outside they wouldn't have anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94125	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94126	My colleague Bulj, unlike you, I grew up on bread that earned a gastar byteer and I know well what, just a little bit, please. I kept my mouth shut. So, all this stuff you said stood, people went out, sent money to Croatia, and that's not at all controversial. But you can also not deny the positive economic indicators that occur in the Republic of Croatia. First of all, tourism. So I'm not gonna argue to you at all in any way that people didn't go out. But if you were to follow what I'm saying, then you wouldn't be replicating it like this at all. Because in this context that you're talking about, I didn't speak at all. If you can't take the line, then don't replicate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94127	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94128	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you mentioned actually the offenders of the law that appear. But I don't think anybody here actually said that we should let the law be broken. The law as such should not be broken, there was more debate here about the appropriateness of a punishment perhaps. But let's go back to people as a matter of fact, how people look at it. They're watching, if we look at Sanader's time now, Calmeta's time. If after all these years, 10 years or so, they are not sanctioned, they are not properly punished, then they feel that they can violate the laws themselves. So it's not shown, and actually the law is the same for everyone, so everyone might be trying to find some minor offense, so they think, if for major crimes, the big crimes don't get sanctioned, then even for this little one. But unfortunately, they happen to be closed. But what we have now is a new form of appearance, which is that the law changes, that something can be made that is harmful to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94129	... A respected representative of Shucker. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94130	A colleague of Panenić, honest as a man who is in the economy etc. I'm surprised by your replica. So you should be heartbroken for what I said, that someone who oversteps 300 thousand kunas, that next month must learn into the VAT system, not that at the end of the year, closes the firm, opens another and does the same thing again, honestly surprises me. I've experienced your debate in a completely different way. If someone else had told me, I would have, maybe I wouldn't have looked at it this way, but if you told me that, who you were, the Minister of Economy, it surprises me, and it has nothing to do with you mentioning some people. The question is what will be mentioned in a few years and who and how. But I was talking about the correct thing. And if you think this isn't okay, it's your right, but I think this is quite okay, talk to your friends, who are extremely damaged, by his competitor, he did what he did and in such a way you illegally earned the money. That's what I was talking about, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94131	The next replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94132	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. While you said in your debate that VAT has a regressive effect for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia and that around domestic budgets will actually save some billions and 400 million kuna. I have to say that I've expressed one skepticism, that the government has done it, but what to do with the wholesaler if they don't, respect these decisions, and if certain things don't come down from 25% to 13%. What is actually going to happen at that moment and what are the mechanisms that the state can use at that moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94133	Thank you very much. The next replica, I'm sorry, I almost denied it. The answer of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94134	Comrade Babic, I said, we threw them a ball in the field for the game. If you see commercials on a daily basis in this trading chain, this in action in this trade chain, then I expect them to start competing in that, that they'll say, here we are, from 1.1. we're taking the price off by 12% of those points, actually 10 because this is because... The basics account for VAT, for that and for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state does have instruments, no direct instruments, but there's another way. Someone has to show, if they hide here, that they lower the price, at the end of the year they're going to have to show a higher profit or income, because it's the product that sells the same price. So what he took away from the citizens is his income, he's going to have to show it, so he's going to have to pay 18% of the profit tax or 12% again thanks to this government that cut the profit tax, if it has an increase in profits. So he'll have to pay back then, but he's got a model for everything. But that's why I'm saying, as Parliamentarians, we had to send that message one by one today, that they were practically obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94135	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said, you said one statement, it would be good for someone to have this property tax bill, a reduction to 3%, and of course it would come in handy. We had this morning's information that it was sold for 5.5 million kuna, i.e. the residence of the former Croatian president, Mr Stipe Mesic, and of course it would welcome that investor, will pay 55 thousand kuna of the lower tax. Also now someone tells me that it is fair, that the same rate is paid for the 5.5 million kuna real estate, just like that family, which is the first real estate to a young couple, who remains in Croatia, who according to the model job rate of the same salary. I think that when we sum up real estate traffic, we see that there is an increase in Croatia, because this increase is precisely about the most valuable values, i.e. the largest real estate. In fact, this rate will only benefit the large capital that buys it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94137	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94138	Comrade Panenic, when you were talking about young families, are you thinking about buying a new apartment or... Pranic, if you were thinking about buying a new apartment or buying an apartment, old man. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's not. There's 25% tax on the new apartment. Because VAT is paid, 3% is paid on a property that's already in someone's possession. That's why I'm telling you, but I told you, I said, and that's why I apostropheed you in the debate, not with the intention of making you any other way, but as one young mayor, who cares about his city, I wanted to say, but that the state and that's what the minister said, will find some compensatory measures in some other way how you're going to get that money. Because you can't say that the town of Vrgorac, if we're already speaking this personal replica, went badly. So the other day, when we talked here, when there was some other law, based on those last changes. But also, if you notice that units of local self-government will run out of income, that we understand, there will be the worst of those seas and the City of Zagreb, because there are real estates most expensive and there is the biggest traffic of real estate. But, I say, I understand you as the mayor of one city's concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94139	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94140	My dear colleague, you mentioned how everything reflects actually on the incomes of the local self-government unit, and I didn't hear that all those who are aware that the unit's incomes have increased and that they have increased compared to the state budget and when the general government is Salded, that units of local self-government actually achieve surpluses, as extra-accountary users. Therefore, rationalisation and income not falling from local self-government units but from growth, contribute to a positive effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94141	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94142	Yeah, I'm sorry there's no co-worker on the left side of the assembly, because when they were carrying out tax reform, they hit it at the expense of the local self-government unit. I think there was somewhere around 155 million, and now I'm sorry in principle, which at the beginning of my debate, I didn't say all the differentiated rates that this government introduced, so from seeds, fertilisers, this, this, that, everything she did. So you can see that this policy makes sense, it has one circle. Well, in the end, the very thing that the minister, at the last minute after consulting and talking with his colleagues, has decided that in this chain the differentiated rates are living cattle so that we have a practically differentiated rate from the barn to the practical table, clearly indicates how systematic, how meaningful this was done and what the minister said today's rule to which everything will be defined. Because at the end of the day, especially you housewives know best when you come to the meat shop how many kinds of meat you have, you're going to have to be counted by the rule that you know exactly what goes under differentiated, and what by the rate of 25%. Because some things you can't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94143	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94144	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, I can't say now that that's a bad thing to suggest, but there's going to be some shifts for the better, that's true. However, it is all small, it is a slow shift and it is not what it could be that complete power is proactive, that full power monitors what is happening in society and that complete power really takes care of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What's this about? Here I'm going to give you just one example, my wife's got a turn-off, she's been working for two years as an artist, she's got an art club and she's got courses for small and big, she's selling some art, and she's succeeding in that bag, and the only thing she can do is cover the cost, pay the state what's going on and stay at zero. So she hasn't been able to move out of place in two years, and she's doing a serious job telling you 10 hours a day. And she's just one of the little entrepreneurs who works so hard in the Republic of Croatia and makes so much money. How do you allow a small businessman to operate normally, to earn at least some average income and not work excessively? How do you get to that? That's one question. Is tax policy going to solve this? I don't think so. I think it can solve something completely different, and it's a merotocratic approach to society as a whole. Our society is ruled by clientism, not by metricocracy. We're missing a value system that's been destroyed for the last 50 years. How to establish a value system, so that the state is governed by those who are the best, the best, the most capable, that state-owned companies are again managed by those who are the best, the most capable, who truly want society well-being. How do you get to it when everything's already networked to clients? Well, that's one story. The second story is that I would say to those who make the most money without a lot of effort and pain, how to take as much money as possible for the state as possible, and that in that case, they too, so I have to go back to a banking system that has 27 billion kunas of liquidity. So after all these years of crisis, after all we've been through this banking system has 27 billion kuna liquidity, and this liquidity has been given to Croatian citizens because the banking system actually operates with Croatian citizens' money and we haven't been able to prescribe a tax on the business of Croatian banks, a tax on their capital. Why weren't we able to do that when they were in a state other than Western Europe and some countries in the former eastern bloc? Why weren't we able to do that? But that's why we were able to cut the profit tax by 10% for the banking system. That's why we were able not to stop banks in their illegal business. Banks still charge illegal interest margins that they have never agreed with their debtors. If the state intervened there, as should be intervened, it would reduce the pressure on Croatian citizens in the next 10, 15 years by about 5 billion kuna because so much less would the banks charge interest. I already said, banks in Croatia charge 100 to 200% more interest than outside. The state has to intervene. The state doesn't want to intervene. So I'm going to suggest between the two readings of a certain supplement of this tax package, I don't have anything special to say today about the tax package itself, I can say that's better than before, that it'll be better than before, and between the two readings I'm going to suggest some supplements and hopefully you'll read them and appreciate them, and until then I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94145	Thank you. There are several replicas on your exhibit. First of all, he is a respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. He's a colleague of Zekanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94146	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I forgot to actually mention to Mr. Pernar, so I'll tell you, I'm asking you for a comment. Croatia is normally 20a in the EU on salaries and 8h on taxes. With all countries mostly following this falling equally, i.e. taxes and wages rising, there is only one disparity in Croatia, I just want little of your comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94147	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94148	Thank you. Comrade Zekanovic, it's because of a massive state apparatus. So a bulky state apparatus must feed on taxes. For one third, it is necessary to reduce us here in the Parliament and the entire local administration, but also in state-owned enterprises there is probably a situation that one works for two. It's a lot of times. I've been to a state firm and I know how to work there. Someone's pulling, and someone's... And so it is here in the Croatian Parliament and so it is in the entire state administration and because of what is done it is necessary to feed those who do not work with taxes, it is necessary to feed their clients. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said, we need to get rid of our clients, as long as we don't get rid of our clients, the Republic of Croatia can't grow the way it should grow. That's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94149	The next replica is respected representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94150	Thank you, Vice President. Before the replica, just to correct my colleague Zekanovic. It is not 8, Croatia is 4 in the EU by tax burden, 12 in the world and by tax burden and by the complexity of the tax system. Comrade Alexic, you asked how or how this tax reform will help a small businessman who works all day long and actually barely survive what he earns? He won't. If you have read the Law on Contributions precisely in this tax package, even worse than that, then and will punish it at the end of the year if it fails to ensure during the year what the Government expects of it, it will, as a natural person, by annual accounting, supplement that difference, if there is no then will be blocked and perhaps completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94151	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94152	Yes, let's remember in the '90s, we were told that a small entrepreneur would be the foundation of the Croatian economy. But it happened exactly the opposite. Big corporations rule here, big corporations forgive debts, big corporations don't have to pay taxes when they get into trouble, and a small businessman doesn't pay taxes, he ends up on the street in principle. Sadly, we are not able to help “a little man, ” not a little man, but“ that little man, ” a small entrepreneur, we are not able to help him in a way that gives him some incentive to put him on his own feet. And it's one cancer other than clientism that started in the '90s and instead of shrinking, it's getting bigger and bigger and unfortunately because of such a situation these people who can't deal with small entrepreneurship go out and work for big corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94153	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94154	Thank you very much. Fellow Alexic, so this reform is basically eye rub in all the exposure we've seen until now except for some. You said banks don't pay taxes on profits, not just that, those 3 to 4 billion kunas take a year's fees, a variety of fees, fees, not interest interest on people, who took credit in francs, but on compensations that there are 500. And we are weakest after withdrawing funds from the EU. We are from 2014 to 2020 to pay more, somewhere around 30 billion kuna. We're 3% in execution alone. Let's let the stories contracted projects, 3%, 900 million. These are enormous damages and this is makeup. We don't even get paid by teleopers from foreign countries, the biggest teleoper's profits are in the Republic of Croatia. It's much smaller in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94155	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94156	Unfortunately, I said, we can't take what's ours. I'll give you an example. Banks illegally arranged loans margins. And that's why it's supposed to punish 80,000 to 200,000 kuna. The High Violent Court has decided that if the bank has notified the debtor in the margin, it is not punishable. But what's going on? Now it's all out of date but the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia decided this March 20th exactly the opposite, so the Supreme Court, which is above the High Criminal Court, has decided that such margins are not legal and that they are not valid. The High Violent Court and the CNB failed to punish Croatian banks by billions of kuna for not agreeing on margins with their clients. And nowadays, they're using these margins that are illegal, the state could make money, people could have been cut off, things could have happened, but nothing happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94157	Next individual debate by respected representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we are discussing proposals to amend several tax laws, VAT, profits, contributions, excise duties, etc. Almost all of today's debates by parliamentarians observed the state budget as well as taxes under the state budget. Let's take a look at how things are at a macroeconomic level so that our citizens I particularly welcome would be much clearer because this applies most to them. Therefore, it should be said immediately that Croatia would service its debts, meaning state debts, it must have GDP growth at least 3% annually. You see, we don't have it, 2.5, so it bends to 2.8, etc. So we are not able, this government is not able to achieve GDP growth to pay only interest on government loans and bonds. If we know that and that's the key message, then this concludes that there is no development in that country, and not only that, but that we are this country and that the previous and this government have turned into a debt country, a debt economy that barely survives. So what's the state budget talking about, ladies and gentlemen? So he's talking about all the failures, he's a cumulative of all the failures of previous Croatian governments, the public sector, public enterprises, and above all when I talk about the governments of the past and the present because that's where it's all seen. Which side do you see? On the side of the expenditure. So, the expenditures dictate first of all this story, not to dynamic the development of the economy so that we charge, means that we increase income. How can we see that? These failures include failures in the sphere from the period of conversion, privatisation, these are failures regarding the incentive of subsidies for which the past and this government never seeks a report, they do not submit reports to citizens where they have spent. Furthermore, there is corruption, clientism and a lot of what you all know so well. But the state budget is far the most powerful weapon, a means in the hands of the political structures that are in power. Why? So the most important thing for them is that someone asks them to do something, to approve something, to give out subsidies to incentives and to redistribute when a political structure like this coalition government is now dealing with redistribution, everyone needs it, and all sectors need it, and citizens need it. If it weren't for that, then it's not important and in developed countries it's really one thing, I'm not going to say the side thing, but nobody is particularly interested. Why isn't he interested? Because there's high wages and then people don't know what taxes are on a lot of things. Why? Because I can live well. So this is how the budget leads. That's why we have 20 every year, I think this is the 28th turn of the tax code because politicians who are in power, the parties, they want to have fun in this way, to deal with, to think, to be concerned or to cheer them up a bit if they let something go or let go. We need to say a lot of such a way of working and only new people in politics, new political parties, new people, new morals can turn the Republic of Croatia in a new rightly positive direction. When we talk about it, then we have to say, ask a question, so who pays the most for these huge failures that are seen in the expenditures of the state budget, which is the highest charge of the state register, the state budget. Well, that's exactly the most endangered layers, those are the poorest, those are the workers who live off their work, the retired. Last year, 47.5 billion kuna were collected from VAT. So please, who's filling that VAT, who's paying? Well, he doesn't pay it, he doesn't fill it with those 5% rich in the Republic because 5% of the rich can't at the same time have 10 lunches. I can't buy and wear 10 suits at the same time or cut myself 10 times a day. That's what the middle layer does and the poorest one. They hold the economy, they hold the consumption. And they buy the most, so they pay the most VAT of these 50 billion, the lion's share. Well, dear citizens, you pay, you who live hard, you pay this VAT. And why is he 25%? So we said, because so many failures have been made over the years and years, and now it's come to our attention. So what are the most important parts of the cost-effective side of the budget that make our lives and everyone else's lives so hard? So look at the pension system. There's an army of new pensioners. So, after the turn, after the war, the fake fighters, the people who were buying pensions. So what do we have now? 17 billion kuna each year needs the Croatian Pension System Institute to pay off pensions. Two or three billion kunas of losses are to be paid to the health care every year. That's 20 billion already. But there's one item that's been here, which is very mean, and it's been growing the fastest in the last 10 years. These are interest rates on loans granted, which means where the state was in debt and on bonds issued by the state. The annual amount of interest on these loans and bonds is over 10 billion kuna. Have you, dear citizens, heard that this government in this proposal has mentioned in one word that it will reduce these interest rates towards banks. You're not and you won't. Why? Because such questions and decisions must not be made. It is an elemental logic that since 2008 when interest rates fell to almost 0% in EU countries, America, this could also have been done by the CNB towards banks to grant them such loans. But our monetary system and credit system don't work that way and if this operation was taken, every year the expenditure, the government's interest expenditure from the state budget, would be 5 billion kuna less. Therefore, since 2008, more than 50 billion kunas would be saved only on interest. I don't need to explain to you how many 50 billion kunas, you all know that, but I want to show you that the previous government, not the SDPs of the government and HDZ have dared to touch banks and they can't. But I can introduce new taxes, and you'll see that they'll introduce it safely, try to introduce a real estate tax, that's totally certain. Because this whole operation, these all the suggestions here that you've seen, these are tiny little effects, they're crumbs for those who are the most endangered and will benefit only tens of thousands of people who earn about 30,000 kuna and more. If it wasn't just a clean criticism, if this government had, if it had introduced, if it had reduced 5 billion kunas to the interest banks, and it could still be done, I would be the first to support these amendments to the tax laws. If this government had in its proposal to farmers instead of reducing VAT to 13% for fresh meat, fruit, vegetables, that VAT reduced them to 5%, I would have voted for these proposals in this law on change means tax laws. If this government had introduced an OPG, so it was, like, organic food zero VAT rate, I'd be the first to vote and support these laws of yours. But you can't support this government, because we see that it gives the poor and the workers, the pensioners crumbs, and rewards only those who don't need to be rewarded. They live well anyway. So take care of the two or three percent of the rich. In that sense, we consider one of the most important things. I could make a lot of speeches about it here, but I'll conclude with what's most important. Dear citizens, there is no change. We know how to do it. The party Change Croatia, our committees on the economy and finance have discussed these proposals. And we came to these conclusions that we made. And that is why we believe that all our solutions are in a new electoral law that must be more democratic and different. I call upon you citizens who are over 600,000, who do not go to elections, who are abstinent from the elections, who have deliberately disgusted politics, to come to the next elections and to show opportunity for new people, new parties to finally lead Croatia in the right direction because this is a path that never will, this is a system that only reproduces itself and this is a simple struggle for staying in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94159	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94160	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear colleague Lovrinović, I have listened carefully to your debate concerning the first set of laws, it is the Law on VAT, the Real estate tax and the Excise Tax Act. However, in all of this, only something about VAT could be made known because the first part of your debate was dedicated to macroeconomic policy, we heard a number of criticisms of flat-rate ratings, part of the debate referred to a pre-election campaign for your party, but what you have observed is also the concern of citizens, i.e. that the most VAT is paid by those with medium and lower incomes and those who fill that VAT-based budget, so I am surprised that you are opposed to this reduction in VAT rate, i.e. an extension rate of 13%, i.e. moving part of the product from 25 to 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94161	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94162	Dear colleagues, I said very clearly that you have proposed and you are part of the HNS coalition, so that you have proposed that VAT be abolished on food produced by the OPG and organic biofood, that you have reduced the re-promatter tax to 5% to be competitive, so I would be the first to support you. So I understand why you try to twist what I'm saying because the party we change is a serious party, serious purposes with serious people and we will certainly participate in the changes that await Croatia. But to mention what you said, you're talking about excise duties, look at 10 kunas paid by citizens for a liter of fuel 5 and a half kuna takes the state, so why didn't you cut the excise charge at least for kuna, kuna and half? Now it's the hardest, it's high oil prices, you didn't do it. So here's a chance for you to do, no law has been passed yet, cut the excise on fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94163	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you were talking about how this government did not actually make this reform for small people, and I don't think our country did any analysis, so an analysis of how many people and what profiles people actually went out of Croatia and how to get those people back. So without that analysis there is no actual reform, you go to Slavonia today, and even in Zagreb you want a man who will draw up a closet, you have simply no more people, and that's exactly what people who have paid 4 and a half to 5000 kuna to whom this reform doesn't bring anything, and I just think that this group of people who couldn't live from their work, who have three times the salary went out and we don't have any strategies to get those people back to Croatia, and without that, we don't actually have a rescue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94165	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94166	Well, gentlemen, let's be honest with each other. This change of tax laws is actually just a smoke screen, why? To see less of the problems of shipbuilding, Petrochemia, agriculture, emigration, migration, because this government has not solved anything, it has not implemented any reforms. And we'll pay for all that. But let's take the diapers, watch the diapers, so isn't it better for mothers who are on maternity leave for a year, half a year, to pay full wages? Well, they'd prefer to get full pay and pay 25% of VAT, rather than half their salary cut and have a 13% VAT. So here we see that this is missed and for these reasons we can't support it because this is a false aid, I explained, it's only helping 2% of the citizens, the rich in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94167	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94168	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to commend as long-term head of local self-government units the results of fiscal decentralisation and the effects that a set of tax laws has on local and regional self-government units. That's what all leaders see now and it's irrefutable. By seriously increasing the original budget revenues, the chiefs are now much more creative in planning and budgeting their cities and municipalities, and about the possibility of not even talking. As an economic operator coming from the primary agricultural and livestock production sector, I would like to make it very clear that the effects of the VAT law in which I think of the 13% rate for agricultural repro material fertiliser, seed and food for animals are already very clearly seen. Namely, there are no more at the time of seeding vans and trucks that brought these products from neighbouring Slovenia, and this is often produced with origins from the Republic of Croatia, such as artificial manure from Petrokemia or animal mixture. Yes, Mr. Lovrinovic, I don't know if you're still here, and I'd very much like that rate to be 5%, but these are my wishes, the possibilities of the minister and the budget are very different. With this additional tax discharge and among the 13% rate on fresh meat, fish, vegetables, fruit and eggs, but also extremely important to say live animals, there will be an existing tax discharge of the economy on the one hand and ultimately a cheaper product will be the last in the chain, which is the buyer. I am particularly pleased about this, and I especially commend this law because I have advocated such a solution myself. So given that animal food was among the 13% analoguely logical and normal due to the misunderstanding either, Mr. Vice President, I would ask you to warn the gentlemen of this, to give me air.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94169	Gentlemen, let's have a moment so that fellow Križanić can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94170	So it would be logical and normal to place the same rate for fresh meat and live animals. Yeah, it's done now, and no one was defending them, they could take the VAT off, from 25 to 20, and between the rate at 13 and 6 and the zero rate. That's what we're all talking about right now, but no one has dared to do it so far. The said VAT rates, in the case of animal sales, will pay less VAT than 13% and as they wait for their money, the move will make them more liquid. We know that the price of capital, 5, 6, 7 percent while the final buyer will pay 10% less, for example, if the pig cost $1250, then now it'll cost 1130 and I don't know what's not clear. It is very important, because of the preservation of domestic agricultural production, this one among the rates, used only for fresh meat, because otherwise they would strengthen imports again, if they were to descend between the rate and frozen meat, that is my answer, to Mr Bulje and Grmoj, who advocated that most Croatian prosciuttos, i.e. frozen meat, such as prosciuttos, are responsible for saying that the road comes from outside frozen, that most Croatian prosciuttos, etc. Croatian prosciutto, is made from an import thigh. It would be better to define more precisely what is in the current state with fresh eggs, which are used in this form for a month. Furthermore, it would also be good to think about the possibility of inter-steps for cream and butter and fermentation, which are also animal fats, as we have for oil and fat, because there is a balance, there is imbalance, because the rate is 5% per milk, and for butter by 25%. In view of the direct impact on the reduction of the final price of veterinary services in order to help livestock production, it would be good to model VAT at the rate of VAT on human medicinal products to reduce VAT on veterinary medicinal products. And that I'm the same for aligning VAT to all human medicines if possible. On the other hand, I believe that an existing rate of 25% VAT on veal should be maintained. In Croatia, around 40,000 bodies are being slaughtered legally, and we know that the number of domestic calves due to the reduction of cows is dropping. That's where you do the angle. Of a body of 125-130 kg, which should enter the tof, not the slaughter. I note that in the Republic of Croatia, 2.5 kg of veal is spent or twice as much as in the EU. It's a similar situation with the slaughter of nursing parents. We import 400,000 children a year, and we slaughter 276,000 and here we need to think about a higher rate to encourage tof. It is also good that this law finally solves the problem of the possible continued avoidance of payment of VAT for taxpayers, which during the year or the previous year generates a value of 300,000 kuna and will no longer be hunting in a blurry one. In order to avoid this, all taxpayers, who, in the previous years or this year, made delivery worth more than 300,000 kn, must register and pay VAT. And no less important, it should be said, after many years, it's the first time we've talked about reducing VAT from 25 percent to 24 percent. The reduction in VAT rates for these products will have a direct effect, on the most sensitive groups of citizens, by reducing prices, while the combination of rates and the reduction of the overall rate of 24% will lead to extremely positive effects for the economy. Once again, on behalf of the livestock farming sector, I would like to say very clearly and thank the Minister and the economy, for respecting our arguments from the field for reducing the VAT rate to fresh meat and eggs, especially live cattle, because this is direct assistance from the Ministry of Finance to this sector, especially direct protection of domestic agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94171	Thank you. We've got a few replicas, the first respected representative of Angel Strike, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94172	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Križanić, you started your discussion by finding that the amendments to the tax laws on the mandate of the current government have led to fiscal decentralisation, i.e. to an increase in all the budgets of the unit of local self-government, i.e. cities, municipalities and counties. This means that in the budgets of all units of local self-government there will be more means to maintain roads, sports facilities, playgrounds, but of course also to finance kindergartens, scholarships, help students, when buying school textbooks, books and necessary work materials. Of course it's to greet and that this very debate today and this set of tax laws has exactly that direction to dissipate the budgets of the domestic... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94173	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94174	I thank you for this question. And by yourself and you were the captain, I was the head of the municipality, you were... One small municipality, and you know what 2, 3 million original incomes, the new ones, who have now sat down, such small municipalities, with such funds, that the chief can dispose of the way he thinks he should, can easily create his own budgets on duties that I don't even talk about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it covers all these basic things that the municipality has to cover from kindergarten to everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94175	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94176	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Križanić, everything you said, stands, you're right. Here's the thing about these reduced VAT rates on food products, so because in 2012, in 2013, we even collected signatures, petitions from citizens in that government to do something about it, did nothing, is now done enough. But that's not why I answered. I wanted you as a man who's really into this business and in that, and I absolutely know that you've been fighting for this part of the living, the reduction of VAT on live cattle, to get in here too, to hear your comment about so-called. the transfer of the tax liability. So this part of domestic production, the calculation of VAT in relation to import goods, let's say the prosciuttos, which you talked about on the thighs, means pork, what the situation is, do you think it would be okay to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94177	The answer of the respected representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94178	I don't know exactly how to answer that. And I know that there is a transfer of the tax obligation that someone who buys outside, say, and then loads them with that transfer of tax obligations, our domestic producers are uncompetitive in that sense because if someone buys a blanket outside and doesn't have to pay the VAT at that time and if they buy it, that same buyer of our domestic producer must pay the VAT on it. If something costs a thousand, this one pays 1250 and this one goes in at 1,000. I don't know, we have to ask the Ministry of Finance and I don't know if it's possible to solve that, you thought that under the same conditions I could sell ours but VAT is VAT, I'm not sure about that, I know about that problem but I'm not sure and I can't answer that personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94179	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94180	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, honourable representatives of the promoter, the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've been discussing this all day and we're going to discuss the third round of tax discharge. I find it interesting to hear from some colleagues who say they're against this. Is it possible that some representative representing the interests of citizens may be against the tax discharge of our economy or our citizens? With this tax discharge, we will charge the economy for nothing less than 2.7 billion kuna. If we know that in the first round we did it for 2.3 billion, in the second round means from 1.3 billion this year, these are significant amounts that can significantly make life easier for our citizens and for the work of the economy. Now, when we talk about what we should, for example. in the Value Added Tax Act, which the product group should have a reduced rate, which our entrepreneurs should be more relieved of, and here they can agree that there are different opinions because each of us comes from different areas, has different priorities, and I, who certainly come from the coast, from Sibenik-Knin County, that I may hear more and closer to my voice and our islanders and our guests. As a mother, as a woman, I think we should all be the priority of demographic renewal, so then I would also agree with those who said we should release value added tax on all products that are related to babies, children, not just food, diapers, clothes, shoes, toys, etc. However, we should also know that the directives do not allow us to, for example, the European Commission. except diapers and food supplements to release VAT or reduce children's toys, clothes, shoes and so on. In my presentation, I would like to place an accent on the Excise Act in view of what I said, I come from the Sibenik-Nin County and I have spoken to them on several occasions, and I have already talked about it when the first reading of the Island Act was, and I would now appeal to the Ministry of Finance because I also addressed them in writing that, given that the Excise Taxation Act in Article 105, which speaks of which no products will be paid for excise duties says they are substantially transferred from the earlier applicable law and that everything will continue to comply with the rules on the terms and manner of the release of excise duties on energy used as fuel for navigation and should be passed within 30 days after the entry into force of this law. In fact, I think there is one injustice that should be corrected and corrected by this regulation and it is the owners of family farms, olive groves on islands. If we know we don't even have Polish roads there, mostly olive trees are surrounded by drywalls, it's also olive groves located on the other island. So, for example. Our Murterini have on the Kornati their possessions and olives, our originals on the island of Tiyate and so on, they come to these olives which means they don't serve them for entertainment and it would be desirable that they can use energy without excise duties, or so on. Blue diesel. There are also mainly catering facilities that are also located in some places where connection to the public power grid is not possible and they also use aggregates for which it is not possible to use this so-called. Blue diesel. Since both are registered in registers, registers, trade registers or these family farms on this basis as well as on the basis that they are still carrying out some kind of activity, I think it would be necessary for them to use this cheaper energy so-called energy. Blue diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94181	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94182	Dear colleagues, I'm glad you asked this question and I'll try to give you how much time it will allow me to answer it. My reason for the opposition to tax discharge stems simply from a different view of the state and its role in society. It also stems from a different view of the obligations and tasks that the state has. I ask the question in which way will the state carry out its tasks, if we reduce the resources to do so? As a consequence of the fact that there will be no money to finance public services, we will go towards their privatisation. Because if you have 2.7 billion kuna in your budget, and we agree that the budget is just over 100 billion kuna. So we're talking about an amount that's somewhere at about 2% of the amount. There's just no answer to how we're going to compensate for the lack of that money. And don't just tell me there's going to be a budget increase because we have inflation that's going to eat GDP because we have a 2.8% GDP, and at the same time inflation that's approaching it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94183	The answer will be given by a colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94184	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, if you see that we have had the first and second round of tax discharges of 3.6 billion and then we have for the first half of the year 1.6 billion surpluses, that is enough to say that we are able to go to the additional tax discharge of our citizens and the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94185	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Juričev-Martinchev, you mentioned 2.7 billion kuna. So, basically, we don't basically ask the question of that money. So, if it is possible to relieve this discharge on the basis of economic growth and the growth of funds in the budget and if the state is really willing to give up that money, what is the key objection? Because if entrepreneurs tell you those 60 kunas that end up staying in one job, after some contributions are reduced, and then they increase for health care again, we don't need it, it's insignificant to us. On 100 employees, the company gets 6 thousand kuna a month. So he can't hire another man. You understand? So it's a waste of money. Why don't we transfer that 900 million total to extra pay disbursement? Well 900, well these 250, well that's already a respectable amount. Let's get some serious pay release.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94187	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94188	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Greek, I said that each of us sees it differently. But we can't be against the new tax discharge of citizens and the economy. The fact is that 2.7 billion kunas will get our citizens and businessmen. How much is that? Is that by some salary billing, VAT, store billing, one, two, five kunas, but the fact is that that money will remain with them and that it can certainly be a new driver for a new surplus in the next period. If we have now received 1.6 billion kuna surpluses in 6 months after we have already disbursed the economy on two occasions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94189	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Then the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94190	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, I already said in the replica of the minister at the beginning of the session, not Minister Maric is to blame for the situation in Croatia. At one point, however, the minister as well as the entire government of the Republic of Croatia must say that the situation is not good. Because if you're constantly talking and the whole government is actually talking about economic growth, about good indicators, and that's not true or should I say the other word, that's a lie. Well, then, that's not good. At some point when a man faces problems at any level, at some point he has to say it's not good, it's bad, we're not going right. Well, I'll repeat, even before I said the bill, the measures proposed in principle most of them are really good. However, the situation globally in the country is catastrophic and it can, but actually I wanted to say that it can be worse. It can hardly get any worse. But unfortunately, we'll probably break that limit, so that limit, so we'll be worse than it is. I've got to look around here. There's some kind of surplus coming up. Guys, let's just translate for those who don't know, a surplus of some kind. We have a deficit reduction compared to the planned one. So if we planned to borrow or spend 20 billion kunas more, and we spent a billion and a half kuna less than we planned, we're talking about surpluses. So let's be honest, let's just say, we have a deficit and it's huge. One of the largest deficits in the EU. Fantasticly large deficit. It's like when we talk about demographic politics so every year we have 15 thousand children born less and one year 500 children are born more, so we have 14.5 thousand children less that year and then Minister Murganic boasts that we have an increase in birth, not a demographic disaster. Just this once, we grabbed the weeds, so we slowed down a little bit. So, the situation is catastrophic. I just want it to be loud and clear here, so that the prime minister can be a big fan in the end, so let this pay phone say, the situation in the Republic of Croatia is economically catastrophic. Well, it wouldn't have left our country, as they say by now, 80,000 people in one year that are in the Republic of Croatia prosperity. That our GDP is growing to the extent that it should grow, that people stay here. I'll say it further, I'll repeat some facts from a moment ago. Of the 28 EU countries, Croatia is 20 per tax burden and 8 per income. All countries are mostly following taxes and incomes, and only in Croatia do we have the opposite situation. And that's not how it works. My colleague Pernar said well, we're going to charge a little tax, we're going to help a little bit, so I don't know, that saleswoman in Tommy and Konzum tomorrow has 40 kunas more pay, we might even have 1,000 kunas more pay, excellently, but the electricity will collect 15% tomorrow, the toll has been collected. My Sibenik gets paid the most expensive water. I don't know Minister Maric, I'm gonna say it again, you're not responsible, but it happened to you, which happened to me two days ago that my wife was crying on the street so she couldn't pay water because she has a minimum wage, a minimum salary of 2700 kuna. And what I'm about to say is not populism, but I just want to bring everybody here closer to the situation. The woman goes to shower at the beach over the summer so she can't shower at home because she can't pay for the water. And now this is just one little example, I'm not going to talk about bottle collectors that are everyday. But we have to be aware and we really have to mention it, not to mention, saying every day that the situation in Croatia is economically catastrophic. And then when we talk about that 5200 kuna media pay, that's a real indicator. So half of Croatia's citizens have less than 5200 kuna. I'm a parent, I have three children, I'm on loan, with two salaries of 5200 kuna you can't have a loan for example. to feed three children according to the standards of the 21st century. He can't, he can't. If you throw out all the luxury, and travel and winters and holidays and everything else. And then if we have half a state, half a state, every other resident of our country that's not able, if his grandparents don't help him, if he doesn't manage in a variety of ways that, you know, don't have to be legal, it's not good. That's why I'm asking you here for one thing, and that's that, finally, if our prime minister doesn't have the courage to come for this pay phone and say, that you say finally, it's a disaster. Because 80,000 people last year did not leave Croatia because it is good in Croatia, but because it is a disaster. But I'm still gonna say we don't get it wrong. What you're doing may not be bad, but the global thing is a disaster, and these measures won't change it, as Minister Murganic has not taken a single step, but we have an even greater acceleration of emigration, an even greater drop in natural growth in the country, absolutely nothing. Only then, unfortunately, things can be put in this way, who's to blame? The moment I didn't fit what the government was doing, I left. Who's responsible for this? Well, you're responsible. You took responsibility for keeping this country's finances and the prime minister for the whole country. And then you think the problem solves the way you say it's good? In other words for another 2 years when the time of the regular elections comes and if God dear to be premature, which we all look forward to and wish for, I don't think it's going to be easy for you actually, because you're the one who took responsibility to run the country financially, and that's obviously not going well. Well, at least tell the truth that it is. And that is that Croatia is economically in a very bad state, that people are poor, that they don't have to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94191	Thank you. We have a replica of my colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94192	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, Minister Maric assures us that Croatia is well. It may be good for us here in the Parliament, but why don't you go see Mr. Maric and go to the Oilman in Pula, I don't know if you've ever been, talk to those workers? I am. These workers are interested in where they will be paid for the next month, or this one. Give them an explanation that your tax reform will benefit, convince them. There's me you can't convince, you know that yourself, but maybe you can convince them. Try that. I don't understand how you can look so indifferently at that shipbuilding collapse. Well, that's obviously not a priority to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94193	There were no questions, but something will certainly say by my colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94194	Of course, commentary. That's right, shipbuilding is one of the key problems of the Croatian state and actually here's a comment on this is how we all looked when the German state rescheduled taxpayers' money from the German car industry, and when the time came for Croatia to resuscitate its strategic industry and shipbuilding with its money, which is not German money, then the problem happened, then we actually have to listen to Germany and its dictatorship, in fact they can do whatever they want, and we can't. But I will repeat, Minister Maric is, in my opinion, one of the ministers most professionally doing his job, but despite this, our financial situation in the country is disastrous, the state is falling apart by seams and this situation we now have is not going to be able to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94195	The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of Orepic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I've already said something in replicas so far, but I'd take this opportunity to repeat it, and they say repetition is the mother of knowledge. What I often like to talk about in this House that when I think about running a state, whether it's tax policy, education policy or any other policy, and the economy, of course, is very important, we don't have a clear strategy, we don't have a clear goal, we don't have a clear vision of where we're going. Here's colleague Zekanovic before me says shipbuilding is our strategic industry, isn't it? I'm asking you now, aren't I? Because I don't know. What is our strategic industry, what are our strategic economic branches, what are our strategic cultures in agriculture? So these are all the questions that I can rhetorically ask you here and what answers you can't give me just as much as I can't to you. There is, of course, a tax policy, a tax policy that should be in the service of our development strategy that we do not have. So we started to try strategically and strategies should be part of the consensus. We will always disagree, i.e. agree on the way in which we reach a specific goal but we must set goals and all policies including this tax, must be put forward to achieve precisely these objectives. Since we are discussing the VAT Act, I will make several general remarks and remarks on the law and on our tax system in general. So we talked about systematically effective law enforcement. It's a very high degree of tax uncertainty. So if you ask investors, if you ask entrepreneurs, at least they'll be happy to point out that as far as tax policy is concerned. I told you about a caterer who told me that he had three tax inspections or three tax controls, and each time the inspector found that something else was wrong, or every inspector claimed that what he had said before was not like this. And now a man tells me by accident I don't know what to do anymore, what to fix, I get the feeling that the tax collector comes to me, doesn't help me, doesn't show me what I'm doing wrong but punish me. It is the easiest thing to punish colleagues and colleagues, and there will always be some small gap, but we have talked about it, I think, even during the first tax reform on tax control, there will be a warning first, and then if the problem is not corrected until the next supervision or within a given period, then there will be a punishment. So, in fact, all inspections should be done not only by the IRS. When we talk about tax burden, and this is, in some ways, a reduction in tax burden, but it's not enough. So when we talk about tax burden, it's not just taxes, it's parafiscal burdens. So colleagues and colleagues, if you're an entrepreneur and while you're paying all the taxes you have to pay, from ZAMP-d, contributions to forests, for water, for water, for inland water, for children, for unborn children, you know how much money you need? You need a couple thousand kunas a month. Now watch when you're a small businessman who's just moving into business, who needs to play his company, so put it on healthy feet, give it to himself and to another worker or to yourself, a few thousand kunas is a very large amount to you. It's very big. And unfortunately, these parafiscal charges are flat-rate, so they don't apply to the size of the company or to its incomes, but to every company equally. Most of them, of course. When we talk about tax reform in general, I share the views of my colleagues who say that the reform must also work on the income but also on the expenditure side. What we're discussing today is a reform on the income side but on the expenditure side, I'm afraid we're not doing enough and it's not just the finance minister's fault, it's the whole government's fault, it's our fault too, but the government's biggest responsibility is, first of all, because we've had opportunities from the media to read, to see competitions for hundreds of new public administration jobs. So the expenditures just grow, they don't drop and the revenues we're cutting now or we're pouring from hollow to empty and if I were naughty, I'd probably say it's because of the entanglement, that it's because of the party machine that's going to vote, etc., etc. But I won't say that. I understand that public administration must be more efficient, that public administration must be and must deal with growing challenges, but if we compare the efficiency of public administration workers and in the private sector, you will come up with truly devastating results. So we need to find mechanisms to motivate public administration workers to be effective, to educate, to school, to perfect and work. We have expensive work, we're going to discuss it in laws that are just coming in, but for example, to give the worker a solid salary from, say, 5,000 kuna, that's something, let's say 5600 how much the average salary is, you as an employer have to allocate almost once more in various contributions, taxes, etc. So we can give it to your employee. So the worker doesn't cost you what he gets net, he costs you in gross and gross often can be almost double. It's not nearly double, but it's almost there. We have to face the fact and colleagues have mentioned this before that unfortunately a very good part of our fellow citizens lives below the poverty level. Because believe me, if most people didn't have to, they certainly wouldn't collect plastic bottles, they wouldn't dig in containers, they wouldn't ask, they're looking for a kuna because they're literally hungry. As a state, we need to find answers to questions, we need to enable these people to work and to live with dignity, which is ultimately and guaranteed, human dignity is guaranteed by our Constitution. So to conclude, I would like to see the clear effects of this reform, this law is in the first reading, we will see what will turn out in the second after all the remarks that have been made in the almost full-day debate but certainly what needs to be kept in mind is a few facts. First of all, our tax system must be effective, it must be clear, it must be transparent which so far is unfortunately not and must be ensured consistent, systematic and effective implementation of them. Because as long as we don't have it, I'm afraid it won't be better and no one will feel the benefits of this tax reform, that we don't have every tax inspector running his policy, that he comes with the intention of punishing an entrepreneur and not pointing him to problems and showing him how to solve them, and that no catering crafts, shops and other facilities are closed because of the miserable deficits or surpluses in the register. So you all know that hospitality is a very dynamic job, a demanding job, is mostly done with smaller amounts in cash, and I don't see why because of the lack of 10 kuna or several kunas, so it's such a violation to close the caterer, for example. It would be much more effective if, of course, after calculating at the end of the day of work, if there are shortages that are not compensated, then that's really the problem. But you might get the customer to just get up and leave, not pay the bill. Or let's say the waiter put one... In the pocket instead of in the wallet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a lot of ways that, in my opinion, a minor offense can be done by chance. In any case, we will see what we will have in the second reading, and I say, ultimately, systematic effective implementation and tax security is what entrepreneurs and investors expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94197	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94198	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, in front of us, that is, we are constantly talking about tax discharge all day long, and how we are essentially looking at what anyone said and how long the debates take, we would actually remember at one point, if this were really a fundamental one reform, one really important reform. And when you look at all that little macro-economic, this just reminds me, like a product costs 10 kn and then suddenly, somebody says, okay, it's not gonna cost 10 kn, it's gonna cost 9.99 and it's, like, I don't know, discharging entrepreneurs. Let's be realistic. There can be no tax discharge or reform unless there is a reduction in expenditure. Someone really needs to say once here for this pay phone that we have over tens of thousands of people in the public administration surplus. You know for yourself when you proposed a state budget for 2018 expenditure on employees of €27.9 billion, an increase of €1.4 billion, material expenditures were transferred by €13.2 billion, an increase of €627 billion. What would happen at the moment, if in the public administration of Croatia, in various state services there were 1/3 fewer people? Nothing. Life would go on. What would happen if there were one-third of the MPs in this House less. Nothing. The council would be developing again. If maybe one-third was smaller in the ministries the same wouldn't have happened anything life would have gone on. So, we have an expensive state, a set of apparatus, and simply if there is no radical turnaround, first of all, according to employees, in the public administration of Croatia, which is constantly being molded, more and more employees keep coming. And no one can actually justify it. If we in the state have fewer and fewer people and leaving the country and we do, how can we have more people in public administration, and that public administration costs money? And it costs exactly all those entrepreneurs, so we all cost, I cost, you cost, vice president costs, we all cost, and all of that is paid by taxpayers. And today we're talking about certain discharges, the growth can't be simply cumulative, if there's no reduction in people, there's no reduction in the public sector, and we don't need to be socially aware of what's going to happen to these people. If we know in advance that the real sector is looking for labour. Personally, I've reduced the city administration by 25%. And life goes on and on and on and on, but we can focus more money on development projects. As far as specific laws are concerned, I support the reduction, the normal VAT on INA, which you have suggested, baby diapers, the delivery of live animals, meat, edible clone products, fish, crabs, molluscs, other amphibians, but would only direct you, that these provisions should be incorporated, as I once said in the replica of my colleague Bulju, all those products, which are in the register of protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications at EU level. These are all dried-meat oil products, starting with olive oil, Cres, Korčulan oil, karst prosciutto, Dalmatian, Istrian, impertinent prosciutto, cheeses, Pag, Krk and Istrian. It is simply possible to encourage, on such a principle, the real development of original indigenous products that are protected at EU level, and we already know which they are, there are not many, there are perhaps no 20th and some products, but by doing so our farmers would be more directed towards these products. And not that by the system, I don't know now it's going to happen in our fields and in mine that comes from Vrgorec or in the fields of Sinj, that people won't know what they're going to do with wine varieties, and they won't focus on some autochtons to produce wine. In particular, the second and third law, it is a property tax, which reduces the rate from 4% to 3%, which will result in a reduction in income to units of local administrations and self-government, but in no way, within the time we are discussing this law, I cannot agree that this rate is equal at the level of the Republic of Croatia. I was replicating my colleagues to Shuker, so this reduction, if we now have in the media articles that a villa worth 5.5 million kn, former residence, that is, the residence of former President of the Republic of Croatia Stjepan Mesic, that investor, that is, the buyer, is currently going to pay 55,000 less under this law. So there should be certain census that these census are not equal, for real estate, costing 10 million kuna or for a real estate costing 100 thousand kuna. So that's where we have to have certain demarcations. And the local self-government units, when we're talking about a local self-government unit, correct me if I'm wrong, we've been on one strike since 2015 to get here, raising an untaxable payment rate of 3800 kn, you've paid compensation measures of around 706 million kuna last year. Let's say that there are no such measures, before that we had, in accordance with 2017, the aided areas of compensation measures which were related to the return of taxes on citizens and the tax on profits. When you look cumulatively, so even before the units of local self-government, they've made some revenue. It was cumulatively worth a billion and 300 billion and 400, and now it's just a different distribution. So constantly in these today, the amounts, when we talk about the Real estate tax law, tell the units of local self-government are given. Okay, I'm a colleague of Shuker, got like a town of Vrgorac 9 million kuna, but that doesn't mean I'll stop the collapse, if I'm behind that period, means cut my income tax revenue... So we can't if the car goes back, 10 kilometers per hour say, let's help you out a little bit, so I won't be skating for 10 miles an hour anymore, but it's going to slide 8 kilometers, and it's going to slide again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it takes enormously more effort, enormously more investment, to stop it, and now we're looking at this tax again, i.e., by changing to take units of local self-government and without, meaning it's not taken when someone tells cities and municipalities, it's taken to citizens. So all these units of local self-government through various incentive and economy and capital investment and maintenance programmes direct these projects for staying people in the area and yet we have no indication of concrete, compensatory measures to local self-government units. You know, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94199	Thank you. We've got a couple of replicas on you, too. He is the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94200	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Pranic, that's exactly what I was talking about. So when we talk about unloading, it doesn't apply to this law, but if it's about discharging employers of 9.7%, it means discharging labour prices, so it's at the level of a statistical error. When you talk about public administration, public administration isn't the only problem. In public administration, therefore, employees in ministries and here in the Assembly generally have fewer salaries if you compare them for example to employees in local self-government or employees of many agencies. These are your countries within the state where the same worker, for example, the senior expert has sometimes twice the salary of the same job in the ministries. And what's your result? The ministries do not stay the best, the ministries are looking to escape and we need the best in this system that can improve these systems by their responsible work and knowledge that can benefit both the ministry and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94201	Comrade Pranic, is there something you'd like to say? It wasn't a question, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94202	Never mind, I'll replicate. Well, there's another paradox in our country. So the current minister of the administration announces the digitisation of the process. Now, if someone digitizes the process, I guess that would mean automatically reducing employees. Because if you've digitized the process, then why would you have so many employees? But no, the paradox on the paradoxes increases every year the number of officers inside the administration. And why is he hiring? What do you think these people will stay home on election day? So they won't stay home, those people will vote for whoever brought them here, who's secured a safe job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94203	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94204	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pranic, two things actually very briefly, first I agree absolutely, and today I have said several times that perhaps you should consider expanding this among the rates, not only on fresh meat and clonic products, but on all meat products, when we speak to the dry-meats, to get a broader aspect there. And you were wondering what would happen if a third of the fewer people worked in state administrations. Probably a social rebellion, protests and all the opportunities we get to see how it is. I agree that we may have 30% surplus but also 15% missing. It's an old thesis that's already been going on for years in which we can't possibly get involved, and I don't think it's the subject of this or the Tax Law right now, but maybe that award system and through the Ministry of Administration in fact how to reward quality workers and they're already going to go alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94205	The answer of the respected representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94206	... You know Minister Kuščević has proposed one measure, 30 kuna punishment or 30 kuna rewarding officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So right now in state services, public state-owned companies starting with HAC and Croatian Waters, HEP, you have so many contracts on a set, so the first minister of the administration should only say those contracts at a certain end, we won't do it anymore. And what would happen, nothing, but Mr. Maric would then have more opportunities to make tax discharges that he would probably do. And what difference does it make what would happen to social rebellion? So I would personally support Minister Maric to reduce the amount of expenditure for employees in the public administration of Croatia. So what difference does it make what five thousand public officials would come here? Let them choose to work in the real sector. Let them choose to work in the real sector. As for indigenous products, I absolutely agree with you, so we have a simple list in the register of protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications at EU level, if we are to encourage originally Croatian, why not find them on this list of 13% VAT.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94207	Thank you. And the next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbina.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94208	Dear colleagues, when talking about public services, bear in mind that for some public services they would not want to go to the private sector, such as the fire department, such as the police, such as health care and so on. So you need to be careful when coming out with these kinds of thesis that a third of the public service people should be sent home. It's not like that. But with one thing I'll agree with you. You mentioned digitization and the way it's being carried out. You know how digitization is done or, for example, we've recently had the purchase of fire stations and the State Department for Protection and Rescue. Only when we succeed in withdrawing money from European funds. Instead of being an upgrade of money from European funds for the creation of standards, we use it for those basic services without which this state cannot. And we will wait with digitization, with radio stations, and with everything, we will wait for the fires to burn our forests and everything else until we get money from Europe. Well, that's why we're not moving on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94209	Thank you. My colleague Pranic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94210	I absolutely agree with you on health care, schooling. I personally didn't even think when I was talking about... One-third of those sectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for digitisation, we have approved the adoption of an action plan for the development of the public administration of Croatia 880 million kuna of grants to reform the public administration of Croatia. Many units of local self-government would like to go into the digitisation of the process, to digitize the management of space, to GIS space management where they could otherwise and easily set up forms of municipal compensation, including those of all the appliances that once appeared as a property tax. But you know how many grants are offered to local self-government units from all levels, starting from national, starting with the European, 0 kuna. And you know how much it costs? It's really costing that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94211	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94212	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will not repeat myself and speak of what my predecessors said and what was going towards improving the living conditions of our citizens and of course the economy itself. I'm going to look back at three moments, one of them is certainly I have to say, for more than 20 years less than a quarter of a century I've worked in inspection, led that inspection, so surveillance and I have to stand up for those people who do this hard and... And I have to say that it never happened, and I'm deeply convinced that it's not happening now that someone's going to be locked up because of some small excess, missing, kuna, such a flower, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's in the blood to make it a problem to hide everything else. The fact is that it's very well thought out, monitored, controlled by income, entry costs, output income, etc. and that it is very well known and can determine what the taxpayer is and what his relationship to the obligations he has. Well, then when it's well monitored, when it's really factual, then there's a problem. So I'm taking this opportunity to just stand up for these people because I didn't notice it today in this debate. What I wanted to say in particular is that economic growth is actually the key to all our problems. There's no solution without a man, no man unless he's satisfied. At this point or in some past time, we have had the opportunity to see a large number of people who have left Croatia, it is mainly in the Western European countries and of course it must be stopped. So something can be done to this, either by reforming what someone calls it or by some tax changes as someone calls them. Anyway, it's about trying and trying to make life easier for our citizens. Whether what is proposed today or not is an eternal question, the eternal question will and will always be and the answer will always be not, it is not enough because it is always considered that there could be more. I wouldn't do anything else at this point, it's been a long time, I'd say something about VAT. Therefore, as regards the reduction of 25 to 13, this should be welcomed, it should be supported, food, fruit, vegetables, fresh meat, animals, etc. Perhaps there is a little more to think about, some of the colleagues have mentioned prescription medicines or no prescriptions, it is settled, meat processing has been mentioned, these movie tickets should be seen, but in particular the energy tax should also be considered because this directly affects both the standard and the home budget of our citizens. But there is always a question of what is possible and how much is possible. What I was about to say, and what I didn't quite notice was that it was particularly apostrophealed, I would just mention something very briefly about a 25-to-24 VAT reduction is that it's those who are now ruling that they promised it, but listen, life carries its own, life carries change and you don't need to look blindly in that direction and what they say is a rape thing that's just going in that direction. In fact, I believe that this amount assumed from 25 to 24 will drown somewhere and the citizens will feel nothing of it. I think they need, that they need to feel, that we need to do as much as possible and as best as possible in their interest. I would rather be thinking about how we would target these funds, whether to expand that regime from 13% or to reduce that regime 13% and eventually maybe we shouldn't reject the idea and the thinking that these funds might also need to be directed in that direction to increase the minimum base from 3800 to 5,000 where we might get that space that precisely those with medium wages from 5 to 7, 8 have one significant, significant increase from even 300 kunas left to them for the part where they could increase, where they could get paid. Here I would suggest that in this direction it may be thought that this third variant would be exactly where citizens will feel it and where they might be able to think whether to get out of Croatia and go on or stay. Here's how much I'd like and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94213	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94214	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. So I'd just like to look back briefly on the excise duties mentioned in these laws. Minister Maric said cars were more sold this year. I would like to remind the public that last year when talking about excise duties it was not an initial proposal, the initial proposal was to reduce the excise duty on used cars and only then, specifically after my speech, the second day was to cut the excise duty on new cars which led to this increased sales which the minister now boasted and that was essentially good. But the cost-reduction area, if we're talking about car transport, is far more and should be used because it would result in far better effects than with VAT rates because it would simply cost everything. Anything that goes down the road, and most of the goods go, it'll be cheap. I would like to remind that this HDZ government, Sanader, in 2003 introduced a fuel consumption of 1 kuna of 20 limes for highway construction, that highways were built in the meantime and that the excise duty is still being charged. So, for 15 years, there's a charge for highways, for building highways that have already been built, and now she just doesn't want to give up. Now it's an eternal tax because once it's introduced, it can't go back to the way it was. I would remind Croatian citizens that they must pay toll four times. Once they buy fuel, they swear 20 for each liter. The second time they buy a new car, the third time they register a car and the fourth time on the highway. We have the most expensive toll in Europe, some shares. Let's just say, as far as I know, this one in Zagorje is the most expensive one in all of Europe. Why isn't that problem solved with excises because those highways are loose? People just don't want to ride around them, they're often inert because they're going down these county roads because they're just too expensive. I'd also like to say something about real estate tax. So Minister Maric himself scored the point of these changes where he said that due to a reduction from 2017 in real estate tax from 5% to 4%, there was an increase in the sale of apartments. Which means that the loss that had the budget was essentially compensated immediately afterwards. He does not want to say that in 2017, when he cut taxes by 2.5 billion kuna, taxes increased by 3.5 billion kuna. So, basically, he didn't give up anything, he still earned it. And that's why I'm asking him to cut back on that real estate tax. Because in Austria, it's 2%. We're going back to competitiveness. Estonia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania have no real estate tax at all. These are the countries we like to compare with. Why was that first - real estate tax lifted for young families? What is the benefit of this in particular in the budget? What's the use? About what Agent Pernar said, just to take on one side and be on the other side. Therefore, before this Law comes to a second reading, I call on the legislators of the Law to consider abolishing the excise duty on the highways because the fuel today is no longer a luxury but a living need and also to reduce the real estate tax at least to the extent that it is in our neighbourhood or in the former post-communist countries that we like to call countries in transition. I think these effects would be greater than selecting certain products to which we will reduce excise duties, VAT, etc. It means to cover as many people as possible. You have therefore increased sales of apartments, you have increased sales of cars, I believe that something can be concluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94215	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94216	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 432, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94217	Thank you very much, Mr. President, we cannot react and ask for a 10-minute break to discuss this illogicality again, proposed by the ruling HDZ party, which has decided, as I said yesterday in the debate, to point out to people from Croatia, to other countries, where there is no consideration at all about the salaries of people who have 5, 6, 7 thousand kuna salaries, they have been forgotten. We're not talking about not dismembering all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I agree with that, but we're saying we shouldn't cut, guillotine those who have the least in the Republic. And don't laugh, ma'am, because it's funny to you, you don't have a salary of £5,000, you've got 30, you've got an increase, you've got to laugh, you've got a laugh, you've got a laugh, you've got a laugh, you've got a laugh, you've got a laugh, you've got a laugh, it's funny, that, of course, it's funny to you 30 kn doesn't mean anything to you, but to the citizens it's not funny, and I'm asking you to be serious, that until the next reading of these laws, this set is not a reform, it's a set of cosmetic changes that go to people leaving Croatia, to respect SDP's proposals, which is going to increase the untaxable share of wages to 5000 kn, that those who have 300 and more kn of wages, per month, why isn't funny? Laugh about it. Let's laugh together and say we helped people, not laugh at people and tell you 30 and buy yourself a ticket to Dublin. That's what you HDZ gentlemen need to know and you need to be aware that it's not funny.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94218	You received your first warning from your colleague Maras. Just a little, well, slowly, colleague Maras, all the time during the vote today, you're loud, throwing, I tolerate and release. Now you've gone out of time, ignoring completely my warning and asking you to finish. ... You've been warned that. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we have a 10-minute break. You've still reached out to your colleague Shuker. ... During your presentation, a colleague named Shucker came forward. Here's a colleague of Shucker's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No. You can't get... Well, he's not asking, just a little fellow Maras, so, first, a colleague of mine called Bulj and asked for a break of two minutes of speech. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you've asked, so he can look now or after he starts again. ... Why, since those rules, please don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What are you talking about? You're getting carried away, so calm down, here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94219	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The worst is when people forget what's going on in this assembly. What's true about this tax reform is whether someone agrees with the modality or not, is that it leaves Yeah, I was looking for a break. [[Intruder President: Comrade Shucker, are you looking for a break?]] I said that I asked for a break to remind myself that some colleagues had forgotten how certain procedures were going on in the Parliament, and also to remind myself of certain laws that were passed in the past and what they looked like and what they had brought to Croatian citizens. [[Intruder President: Say it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94220	Comrade Maras, please, why are you doing this? It's just not polite, let people talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94221	So, famous Democrats Maras, when he can't answer with argument, then he does what he does. So, we will consult to confirm once again, that, by this tax reform, Croatian citizens and economics are left with 2.2 billion kn. This tax reform doesn't go on the burden of a local self-government unit like it was in some past tenses. Remember all of you who are at the head of the local self-government unit, which happened in 2015 without how much money left by local self-government units. Whoever abolished the zero rate on bread and milk and what compensatory measures were, who raised the VAT rate from 23% to 25% who closed 80,000 craftsmen, who passed the Law on simple companies, who made a mess in paying value added tax and a number of other things could count. However, colleagues and colleagues in both past and future times, in this assembly there will always be that we do not have to agree on the proposal and the way we want to do things. But the figures are there, they're a fact Yes, but how much time have I taken, Mr. President? [[The President's incursion: Time.]] _Other Organiser [[The incursion president: No, it was time.]] [[The incursion president: Yes, it was, it was stopped, please don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94222	Wait a minute, there's a colleague, just a minute, there's a colleague... So please, what's wrong with you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Your colleague Furio, you called for a break? Okay. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure before that. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94223	Thank you very much. He broke his colleague Schuker's Rules of Procedure because he said the inaccuracy was not going real estate tax, that it was not going to harm local self-government. No, that 1% is going, paying local self-government, not the state budget. Of course, you need to centralize and be the dependent local leaders of the central state, so that people can be held in such a way as to be obedient so that they... to be able to get some funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The Incursion President: Thank you, colleague Bulj, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] So, you told the truth... local self-government 1% is for real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94224	Kola Bulj [[/Shucker's lying.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94225	You're not telling the truth? That's it. You're lying.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94226	Come on, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you're not just being polite and I'm asking you not to throw away, not to be offended because there's really no reason. We can argue normally and you can say what you want in your discussions, but don't do it like this, it's not right. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, now my colleague Furio Radin is on his way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94227	The National Minority Club is asking for a 10-minute break to rest from this controversy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u94228	It's hard for me to approve a break because it doesn't say that vacation is the reason for a break, it's the consultation, but since they're already taking a break, we continue at 55, so at 12.55. MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.55 HOURS]] It is up to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. In 432, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for an amending and supplementing law on value added tax is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that 77 votes are for, 6 abstentions and 28 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95006	Now I have a proposal for more club representatives to comply. 247 can conduct a united debate on all the remaining 6 points. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95007	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Live Wall and Power Club opposes a united debate because it just doesn't make sense. The debate is about this, reform is too important. You've already limited us to the number of replicas, you've limited us to the right of the Rules of Procedure to speak freely, to have breaks and everything else, so, then at least leave us the opportunity to say through two discussions what we think of such extensive measures as concerns all of the citizens of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95008	Personally, I didn't limit anything. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if most of the representatives present agree, then that will be the case. Here, I can also suggest that we vote by raising our hands. Who is it, please, for a united debate to be held? There he is. So, most of the present representatives agreed to this, and then we will have a united debate on the following points: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits, First Reading, P.Z.E. No. 433 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on income tax, first reading, P.Z. No. 434 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, First Reading, P.Z. No. 435 - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash transport, first reading, P.Z. No. 437 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 438 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 439. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply to all these items of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95009	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will immediately apologize if this order of united debate may not be exactly the order of which I lead. I listened to the Vice President's attention, of course, but here. We're a little tired together, so now I've memorized the exact order and schedule, but I won't miss anything. So, at the beginning of this morning, I was saying a comprehensive comprehensive tax reform, now there's no need, no matter what some of you were, some of you weren't present this morning, and I think you've all gotten the impression of how and how we think and the tax system, we're just looking at it as a whole, and no matter what we focus on, either in the debates by the clubs or individually on the segment, this or that, I'm always, or, in some way, trying to actually keep our focus on that wholeness. As far as these six legislative proposals are concerned, therefore, I will start with the income tax, in that part, in the law itself, I can say that most of the actual harmonisation is done and implemented with EU directives. Therefore, the obligations to comply with the Directive, the 2016 Council, laying down rules against tax avoidance practices directly affecting the functioning of the internal markets. These measures aim to prevent the observed unforeseeable application of the rules on the warning of profits and international tax law at global level, which is why the measures currently prescribed will apply only to a multinational company. I can clearly say here, very openly, therefore, as Minister of Finance, I have, of course, the honour and satisfaction and also the obligation to participate in the meetings of the EU Finance Council and how much I remember from the first to the last meeting, we never had, almost no meetings, that at least one point was on the subject of so-called. circular fraud, aggressive tax planning and everything seen across EU countries and how and how to prevent, or ultimately reduce such phenomenal forms. Now, of course, it ends compliance with the provisions that enter into force on 1.1.2019, so, the new rate-limiting rule, the taxpayer, can as tax-recognising expenditure, determine the excessive cost of borrowing only up to 30% of his operating profits, so on. ebide, or up to 3 million euros, if this leads to a higher amount. The second rule is control of invasive societies, they will be taxed abroad... a company which does not pay tax to a resident State or pays at a low rate, if it generates revenue, from the interest of copyright fees, licences and insurance financing, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as other changes are concerned, outside of these services with European directives, the current obligation to pay taxes per deduction, at a rate of 20%, extends to interest, dividends, copyright and association, fees, if paid to persons in the field of non-operational states. The taxation process for foreign artists and athletes is simplified and is given the possibility of taxation for foreign artists and athletes, and is given the possibility of taxing taxes after deduction, i.e. instead of income tax. And there are also certain compliances with some other laws, including the Alternative Investment Funds Act. The second law is the Law on Income Tax, Amendments and Supplements of the Tax on Income, and we are already in this debate today, today's debate, a good part, comments, discussions, in some ways and suggestions, led to this particular segment. I will also count what we are suggesting, therefore, even in that original template and proposal, the main measure was, among other things, the treatment of certain tax forms in this segment, so I will go in order. So the annual tax base for applying the 24% rate from 210 thousand per year to 360 per translation per month is expanded from 17.5 per 30 thousand. It is also taxed on receipts in kind, on the basis of allocation or optional purchases to 20 shares, which employers payers receive, i.e., salaries give to employees, other persons or members of the administration, whether they quote on the stock exchange or not. For now, I will just remind, at this point, such forms, are taxed as income from the work on which full amounts, contributions, taxes and taxes are paid and, in fact, that building a net according to gross actually means that you on 100 assigned units, shares to the employee, he's bound to pay and more than 100. In particular, it's a problem when, of course, we come into a situation, that the employer can't bear that kind of cost, then practically to the employee it's no use at all. With this proposal, this type of income is uniquely equal to the treatment of employees of members of the administration, foreign, domestic companies whether they are employees or not of that society, in the same way, which is to be treated as income from capital, at a unique rate of 36%. I must admit that in one part, I will not say public debate, but in part, discussions through both media and individual companies, which have been advertised on this, this provision is a little misunderstood, a negligible fact of capital income income is not charged with contributions but only a single rate of income tax and plus tax. Then, here's my colleague Bulj, when he comes back, and we'll pass on to him, the receipts made on the basis of temporary, or occasional jobs, seasonal workers in agriculture, are taxed at a rate of 12% as a final second income. This is the provision, which, when we talked about it at the current morning, i.e. the hour, I said, therefore, is one of the comments that was made by the Croatian fruit society and the Ministry of Agriculture and that is something that we adopted in public consultation. Also, something we adopted in public consultation was on the trail of our original thinking, but we wanted in some way, the eco public, the professional public, but I must admit that this provision, which I now say, was mostly influenced by letters, appeals, our parents, about their children, who are also students, who are entitled to a scholarship. Therefore, the provisions, which are binding, pardoned, in determining the right to a personal deduction, for dependent members, shall not be taken into account, insurance compensation, paid due to serious injury and recognised disability, scholarships, regardless of who the payer is, and rewards for the originality of students and students paid out of the budget and grants paid out of the EU funds and programmes, and other international funds and programmes governed by the regulations of international agreements, for the purpose of education and professional training. In translation, we have had the situation so far, i.e. we still have the situation, if so, to achieve an annual scholarship level of more than 15000 kn, so then the parent loses the right to recognise his son or daughter as a abstention member in terms of income tax. Now that provision, not only that limit, of 15000 to increase, but it is completely abolished. Thus, scholarships and already mentioned serious injuries and recognised disability no longer enter into that diameter. Provisions are laid down which oblige the representative bodies of the units of local self-government to decide which to prescribe and prescribe the level of the flat tax per bed ranging from 150 to 1500 kuna or by accommodation on the unit and camp to allow units of local self-government to manage the level of tax in accordance with fiscal needs and economic development objectives. Also one of the measures that was mentioned this morning, I believe that we will hear about it today, and there will be opportunities of course a little bit more and I will only repeat that the existing system of taxation of private tenants who have been in the system since 2004. Far from 15 years of this calculation has not changed, at the same time I will remind you and all of you well know that both local leaders, mayors and mayors, there is no mayor here, that the amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, the total income from income tax have been paid to you. So this is the same one of the measures that actually means what we are constantly declaring, fiscal and functional decentralisation, that in your hands there is this kind of intelligence that exists today with a cut, so at the state level, in the Croatian Parliament, the law has been passed that defines the minimum and maximum limit of the cut, so also now related to the flat tax. It is then prescribed that no receipts shall be considered to determine the income of the award of textbooks, work notebooks and notebooks which units of local and regional or regional self-government shall give to the pupils or cash compensations provided on that basis. We well know that not all units, all cities, municipalities and counties that assign to their students, but those they assign, we have different tax treatment at this point whether they are given in nature, in terms of giving textbooks and notebooks in relation to cash compensation. Now we're equating it in a way that there's no, of course, tax burden in that sense. It's also one of the things that's been apostropheed in public consultation. By the way, be told, maybe I didn't emphasize it that much this morning. At one point it was understood that only two comments from the sixth and something accepted in the public consultation, 1/3 of the comments were accepted from what we received in the public consultation, just to be clear. It is also prescribed that incomes are not regarded as formal and informal programmes for the education of unemployed persons and other socially vulnerable groups organised without charge by legal or natural persons and financed by the EU budgets or funds and programmes and other international funds. It is also prescribed that income from insurance is not considered to be receipts in the amount of paid premiums of voluntary pension insurance which have been exempt from paying income tax. You remember, or very well known, the situation that today the employer has the possibility of the 500 kuna per month, 6000 per year to pay for the employee on the so-called issue. the third pension pillar, at the exit, the payments that have been capitalised over time, are taxable. Today according to this proposal, it means neither entrance nor exit. Here's another one of the changes. So, as far as these measures are concerned, in terms of income tax, of course, the decisions of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional or regional self-government, of course, that at this point we cannot have the exact number depending on their decisions, the overall fiscal effect, but the key measures, they are heavy somewhere around 210 million kuna. The draft amendment of the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Contributions was then one of the laws that I will immediately say was most often and most frequently commented in public consultation because of a specific provision relating to the basis, not pay, the basis for the contributions of directors and members of the administration. Many of you have also been offered what was written on social networks and in the media, realised that here it was an intensity to prescribe salaries, not only was it an original intensity to influence the basis for the calculation of contributions, whether they were retired, so whether they were paid or paid, however, now according to this proposal, as regards members and directors, or the president of the company’s management, who were registered at full-time, that 0,65 coefficient, remains. Those who are registered on part-time, their coefficient in terms of the basis for calculating the contribution shall be placed at the level as if they were declared full-time. Why is that, I'll explain. So, you and I can have a company today, but it also happens in practice that one of us is additionally applying for part-time and today not theoretically but really for one hour a week, 12 minutes a day and 48 kuna a month, you have the right to a lot of health insurance and a retirement internship. ... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Now, that's just what I was going to say, so when we start out like that, that's why it wasn't intentional because at this point, we have a system that's not that simple in terms of the basics of contributions. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] You also know that craftsmen who have less opportunities than companies, so most things are prescribed and do not have any great flexibility, pay base 1.1, members of the company management 0.65 as well as craftsmen, but then we have reduced and depending on whether you have an OPG, and then we have a situation where a member of the company's management registers or has a payment of health insurance contributions on the basis of the OPG. And the O.P.G. registered that now I'm not talking about all possible ways and by what basis but the reduced rate was for the O.P.G., whether it's in the sheets and not counting now, so that was the intensity. She was misunderstood in public because some calculations started and some of the MPs also if you want to call me personally, that you should earn 11,000 kuna a month. It was never in that first proposal that went to public consultation, the number 11,000 kuna was. Because I repeat it once again, it wasn't a pay order, it was a basic. If we're going to be extremely cold, with numbers, that original proposal that is no longer a proposal, but I'm going to explain anyway, you'll allow me in the Croatian Parliament, so then the cost of 4400 would increase to 5,000 kuna and not to 11,000, I repeat this once again. However, the main change in the protection of amendments and additions to the Law on Contributions concerns pay contributions. We've thought a lot, analyzed, watched how and how to reduce the burden of work, what you and most of them have apostrophe during the morning and afternoon. We all know or can assume that in the pension system and in terms of pension contributions, the manoeuvre space is narrowed down. You know, I... colleague, Marko Pavić will be here soon, and during the last quarter of this year he will also come to the Croatian Parliament and you will hear and know that you get the figures, so annually, when we look only at the shortfall in terms of what is paid as pensions and what is due in the first pillar is somewhere around 17 billion kuna on the annual level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where the space is really narrowed down. However, we wanted to find a place where we could reduce the cost and cost of work. And we found it, and so we propose, on contributions to wages, in a way that two contributions are completely abolished, these are contributions to work injuries, that is those 0.5% of the income of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and employment contributions, i.e. for non-employees, which is why they are paid mostly for unemployment benefits, that is, 1.7%. However, we are also aware of the challenges that exist in the health system, and some of you have mentioned and talked about this in the debate this morning and today, and of course we also speak in front of the government, so this is one contribution to the income side of the health budget, but we are also aware of the need to take certain measures on the cost/expensive side of the health budget. Suma sumarum at 17.2 as much as the total salary contributions today are to employers, all of you who are employers, you know, and I'm not going to say it's irrelevant, but every tax to you is a contribution to the cost. So it doesn't matter if I don't say something called something, from 17.2 to 16.5. The result of the fiscal effect of 900 to 950 million kuna more for employers in terms of reduced costs and the labour price that you are sure and when you start to discuss today and when we talk about whether and how much will it feel on salaries, so there is no repeat of any guarantees, these are pay contributions, there is no guarantee that this must be necessary. However, significant cost savings can and should also be reflected in increased employment and wage increases by employers. On the other hand, a health contribution, excuse me, the budget of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute would receive more than a billion to 350 million kuna at the annual level. As regards other amendments, the already prescribed basis and the Employment Encouragement Act relating to temporary, or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture or the value coupon provision to be paid on a daily basis for compulsory insurance for seasonal workers in agriculture shall be adopted. Provisions on the recording of advances of contributions to seamen, crew members, ships are also deleted in international navigation. Then we have the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Cooperation on the field of tax, also most of the harmonisation with EU directives, one of the laws concerning and can be said at global level, at the level of the OECD member states of the EU member states, as well as many others in terms of exchanges and general co-operation. Then the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financialisation in Cash, also one of the topics in which we talked a long time this morning and today, and many of you have apostropheed certain things but here I am glad that in one of the last, in fact it was the last individual debate either among other things and apostrophe that should be taken into account and the work done by tax authorities, i.e. inspectors among others on the ground, and that it was also not quite as simple work and work and responsibility as it is very often or rarely, I would say not fully take seriously and responsibly, and these are people who are also doing work for the state in accordance with Croatian laws and regulations and, of course, in the interest of Croatian taxpayers. As regards these changes, it is proposed to introduce a fiscalisation, sales of goods or services by means of self-service devices with one adjustment there, so there will be, of course, and as regards the adjustment within the meaning of the sub-legal act of 6 months, but that provision came into force on 1 January 2021. The introduction of a new obligation in the printing of accompanying documents when the payment data is listed on them, that's something we are, I think many of our witnesses were to see, I'm not going to call it an account, but something that looks like an account and it says a review of a table or a pre-account or something like that. So now it's an obligation to write this isn't a fiscalized account. And, of course, leaving a longer deadline for removing the fault of the charger. The deadline extends from these existing 2 to 5 days. Not only the failure of the devices but also what can happen, the shooting of internet connections and the same, there's a tax administration trying to be also the customs administration of course, ultimately, extremely receptive to such situations because these are really possibilities. But we know very well that in not a small number of times when we ask why something hasn't been issued, then it's said it's only because of this. Now we're giving that deadline from 2 to 5 years. And lastly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, is a change due to the imminent changes in modern ways of business and communication, as well as the completion of the General Tax Act itself. So one of the things that I'm going to mention again is employers, mostly small and medium-sized apostrophe. For example, bookkeeping documents made on paper will be able to be taken into account in tax matters and converted into electronic records. If the authenticity of the origin is ensured, the integrity of the content from the moment of conversion until the end of the period prescribed for the preservation of the accounting document. In translation, what does that mean? Today, accounts must be kept in a materialized, material physical form. Not a small number of times. So it happens that the quality of the paper and the print is not exactly the strongest and the best, that, over time, this print actually disappears. And we actually have a problem and at the same time in this way we are solving this problem so that it can be stored electronically, stored what is on the one hand and greater security of these data and on the other hand administratively and indirectly and financially and cheaper for entrepreneurs. In relation to excise duties defined as public giving, they are subject to tax in the General Tax Code. Except for the tax secret involved and conduct in criminal proceedings. The topics that have been set up so far for binding opinions are also deleted, seeking to boost the use of this institute more frequently. I will also follow this speaker and in public appearances and in some other ways that we, as tax authorities, have on this particular segment of education, prevention and information of taxpayers, insist on this among other things. I said a long time ago and I want this to be a direction that at some point we will have a situation that the tax administration and tax authorities will be much more often than they are able to issue these binding tax opinions. So, in the end, you're going to get a stamp paper or no stamp, but with the signature of the official body and then as an entrepreneur, a taxpayer, a citizen, or whoever you have to count with, or you know, and you have the right and valid answer to your question. It is also prescribed that the supervision of legal and natural persons carrying out their activities as an authority shall be designated by an expert in the ranks of lawyers or tax advisers. The delivery institute is further edited. One very important thing, also one dialogue we had with entrepreneurs, again small and medium, but also everyone,... the known report or form to be completed for the purpose of recording outstanding liabilities will no longer be on a quarterly basis but on an annual basis and will be significantly simplified, which is one of those parts that I like to apostrophe that this is not just about financial and fiscal but also about administrative discharge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also a whole series of other things that will mean facilitating communication on the line of tax authorities – taxpayers, above all, further expansion of the possibility of e-communication. You know very well, and we all witness that I don't know, in the income tax system, therefore, that communication is already very well functioning. Here, some year in a row. Yes, of course, it's the IRS who's talking to the IRS. He has a reasonable period of one month to make a complaint if something is possibly miscalculated and then they go back. That's what I think works well. Such cases and such communication from the very delivery of forms, different reports, will continue through other communication. And what very often my colleagues from the tax and customs administrations always ask me to and publicly say that precisely taxpayers, regardless of the various possibilities, different in some way, situations that are more involved in this communication because you remember yourself some time ago, there was also a situation where the Tax Administration was understood as someone who carries out again, as it is said, terror because someone did not fill out the form well, it was famous that little p and large P. So in this particular case there were over 40 warnings by the tax authority towards the taxpayer, but that change or correction was never done and then at some point of course it became a subject in the public space. Here, I thank you for your attention and of course these six points as well as for the first three laws. I believe there will be many questions, comments that will be answered and argued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95010	Thank you very much. Here, almost everyone who sits here has already appeared in their replicas. So let's take the turn. The first came the honorary representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95011	Thank you very much. Minister Maric, I would just like to refer to your statement that the MPs are tired. Tired of what? I don't see 80 or more MPs around here. What are they tired of? I think this country is tired of, say, pyrotechnics, I think the tired booksmark workers, I think the tired firemen you mentioned are tired factory workers like Vindy, I don't know... The deer and the other one. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can't even go to the bathroom, they can't even go to a hot meal, they have to work 10, 12 hours overtime without being paid. We have all the costs settled, and I don't think we really have the right to complain that we're tired, we're doing a job that we've been chosen by the people, and I think it must be our first honor to respect, of course, the general situation in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95012	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95013	Dear Minister, I'm curious, I see this reform that you're doing. Some things are good. Let's just say that what you've combined these contributions, it's essentially a positive thing because it's going to reduce red tape amongst others. You won't have to make three payments, only one. And that's good. However, I wonder if you've given up the introduction of real estate taxes and if you haven't given up, when does this government intend to introduce it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95014	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95015	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here we are finally talking through replicas directly. As for the first part, I'm glad you recognized one, as you say a good measure. I'll do it again. So this measure is, among other things, to reduce the cost and cost of work, and at the same time, we cannot ignore and turn our backs to the health system, and I would say to everything that we all want to have both adequate and service and service quality and, of course, to be a system financially, fiscally sustainable. As you can see, in Proposition 9 of the Law so far, I'm done presenting all nine, there's no law on local taxes. So, as far as real estate tax is concerned, he is not the subject of this government on the table, as we have already said many times in public. So he's gone through some kind of past and as far as we're concerned, or as far as these governments are concerned, so it's not the subject of this change that you're facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95016	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, commendations primarily on the amendments to the Income Tax Act, particularly in this section regarding the determination of the right to a personal deduction where scholarships and awards are now not taken into account for students and students regardless of whether they are from the EU budget or from EU funds. I think it's a good incentive because a lot of our youngsters have just refused such programs for youth and scholarships precisely because of that censorship of 15 thousand kunas when they could no longer be abstention members of their parents. I wonder if the Ministry of Tax Reform will continue, since we know that a large number of students are beginning to finance themselves through studies, whether this censorship of 15 thousand kunas will increase, or whether more than 15 thousand kunas will be allowed, I am thinking in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95018	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95019	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So I think here and this measure shows how much we look and follow, or we want to make it easier and in some way more adequate conditions of study, of course the right to a scholarship for excellence to be rewarded, and it's great, and at the same time it's also a numerous part and part or number of our students as I believe, and many of you MPs can say on their own personal behalf when I was a student, it's also something extra and it works to provide and earn both for the apartment and for some adequate standard as a student. That's all the stuff we're considering. At this point, this is the main measure, and it is that there is no longer that limit in terms of recognition whether anyone can continue to be or not to be a abstention member given the scholarships. Most of these comments were about these European e-rasmus scholarships, but we are not to have any kind of discrimination said for all types of scholarships. However, their tax treatment for the time being remains as it was before. This only concerns the limit for abstention members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95020	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95021	Dear Ministers, the ministry, after great public pressure, is here and we are here as a position and MOST participated, gave up the increase in the coefficients for management members, directors, cooperative managers from 0.65 to 1.1, but instead you caught all those who had been reported on part-time and accounted for their contributions as if they had been reported to a lot. And you've extended the additional base to those that are secured on another basis, or employees elsewhere. And here I've seen, so if we're looking at some gross salary of 5200 kuna and that's 1902 kuna per month for contributions only. Since the first day of the draft society at a time when no company income is even available, are you aware of the impact this is on someone who is just moving into business, so there are no safe buyers, no incomes, and who knows when these revenues will actually be made?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95022	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95023	I tried to explain in the opening part, some of your clubmates were a little bit and nod off as if they understood or in some way accepted my arguments at least. So when you reacted as a club, I followed that in the media, it was also on the trail of those calculations that appeared, which were not correct, because nobody prescribed the bill, or the height of the salary, but the height of the basis for calculating the contributions. And that 11,000 kuna that you've been communicating with just doesn't stand. So what are we talking about? So we're also talking about those who are part-time, there are exceptions. Retired people are allowed to do four hours a day according to existing legislation, and that does not change. Also a foster mother, any kind of sick leave or something. We kept those kinds of exceptions. But I repeat once again I can't and I don't want to ask you questions now, I'm going to ask myself, is it normal that in 12 minutes a day you have the right to a lot of health insurance in the Republic, that's something we actually wanted to tang with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95024	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95025	Thank you, Vice President. Very short,... In the debate, you mentioned options for the allocation of shares to workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here it is as if, in fact, in order to primarily maintain a high education when a change is proposed not to go into the income tax system but to the profit tax, however, i.e. capital income. But the proposal is actually that the existing one was 24% if we look at income, now it rises to 36. I think we should take a look around. What's happening to us? Our people go to work for corporations because of their options, just apply to neighboring countries. And we're losing everything. And therefore, the proposal is to consider putting this at a level as well as all capital income 12% plus a cut. Because anyway, if he wants to cash in, he's going to tax that stock twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95026	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95027	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You're in this problem, and we've talked about it a few times, so just to be perfectly clear, so we don't get it wrong. From 24 to 36, don't ignore the fact that today is 24 and still going 37.3. So that's a big difference and that's what I just said in the opening part that even some Croatian corporations misunderstood it, i.e. interpreting it as an increase in the burden. Of course, when we look at the total burden, this when at 100 of those assigned, we can say the shares, if that's the employee's cost, but it can also be the employer, of course, this is practically overcoming that total cost. But, of course, care should also be taken of the overall system because if we are too low at that rate then, of course, that allocation of optional shares in terms of shares as rewards or bonuses can be some kind of broader covered practice. But in any case, I think that entrepreneurs have generally welcomed this decision and we can further discuss further steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95028	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95029	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, in the opening section you have touched many topics and I am joining the emphasis on the importance of these reliefs that for students, it is a pity that this decision has been made at all, but it is a good thing that more scholarships will not enter into part and that they will be able to continue to be abstentions. What I would ask you to point out, at least in this part, is that you did not look back in any way, and these are a number of suggestions that have come about sports and athletes and the Law on profit tax and the Tax on Income and the Law on Contributions. We've already talked about VAT, but here and as far as tax breaks are concerned, for those who invest in sports, for a different way of treating sports workers, coaches, judges, anything that could significantly help a sport that's in a major crisis. Have you appreciated any of these suggestions that came from the Central State Office in this package?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95030	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95031	Dear Representative, these are very constructive suggestions and with colleague Janica Kostelic and her colleagues, we have seen all these suggestions, but we also watch, I would say a broader story of the financing and sustainability of sport itself, which should be directed among other things to go as far as possible towards sustainability and equal availability throughout our beautifulness, not only to be focused on individual sports and not to tell certain clubs, but to lower it to the level if you want school sports or as low as possible, and that is a key element in actually adequate financing and adequate conditions for professional staff, that trainers, educators, who work with children of course are adequately and can also be educated in order to be able to implement it all together. What will eventually be accepted will be seen until the second reading. There are very many comments and suggestions, it also goes into that sphere of view of overall fiscal opportunities and effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95032	The next replica is a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, we can agree and disagree, as a rule we disagree, but I must commend you for being there for the whole debate and for always and for defending the budget and the laws there, unlike some of your colleagues and colleagues who do not have the guts to show up when their laws are at stake. So, I am pleased to hear that the coefficient remains as far as the director and members of the management board or members of the company management are concerned. But I have to point out again, from 17.2 to 16.5%, so 0.7%. It's at the level of statistical error. I know the intentions are good, but somehow it seems to me before, too little. So we went too little to cut labour prices, of course, that doesn't mean that wage workers are going to grow but there will be more income for employers, so maybe they'll get more employment. But here we can only talk about very large corporations or companies that Croatia generally does not have, but one small entrepreneur who employs 2, 3 people will hardly feel it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95034	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95035	Your Honor, this is the second time you've commended me, so how come we disagree, we agree, very much. We have to agree when you praise me. A little joke and a crackdown on what you said. So, as far as the contribution is concerned, I still have to say that no matter how small a change is and as you say a statistical error, I wouldn't say that 900 million is a statistical error. It's big money but of course, when you look at the individual level and so many contributions as they are, they're a reduction, however from 17.2 to 16.5 gives you more opportunity to and the health system at this point fiscally and financially, here are a few doctors who are present here unrelated to us, I would say to the side of the political spectrum, I believe that both doctors and many others actually agree that among other things, one of the important things that should be done is for the health insurance system in the Republic to be among other things both fiscal and financial sustainability. This is how we contribute to this revenue side of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95036	Thank you. The next replica is respected representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95037	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister, you can't do this because something's wrong with you, go punish all entrepreneurs who do their job fairly and neatly. I am very interested in your commentary, we will say that we have a beginner who, in his first year of business, fails to sell his services or products at the height of what you prescribe by this law that he must calculate contributions full-time and you will ask him at the end of the year to pay the difference. What if he doesn't make that difference and if he's got a profit from saying 100 kuna, what about a rookie like that? Shall we block it? Here, that's what I've been explaining all along. What about those beginners who were simply unable to provide these funds, and for this very reason they were half-timed, at 6 o'clock, 4 o'clock, I don't know how they had their incomes. Here's what I want to know about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95038	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95039	So I have to answer you as well as answer those of your public references to me that I need to earn 11,000 kuna, so for these beginners nothing changes if they've signed up for full-time. ... That's right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, but I repeat once again, whether in all this together, so those calculations that you know well just presented them a little differently publicly, you know, and myself, I repeat once again, so from the perspective of the functioning of the overall system, whether it's fair and fiscal but also broadly social to repeat it once again, in 12 minutes you have the right to a full medical standing. ... But I'm answering you exactly that way, so, which means that you're looking from the perspective of an entrepreneur, so it's not just beginners who are reported possibly on part-time, but you'd be surprised, and you know it very well that a lot of people who have been working for many years and are working among other things sharing such a grace system I just said, that you and I have a firm, and then, among other things, you, like me, register for one hour a week and I'm with you. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And on that basis, we do. So it's not just a beginner question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95040	The next replica is the respected representative of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Come on, let's not, let's not do that. We have an opportunity to communicate differently. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95041	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I support this proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act relating to the level of annual flat-rate rent tax. In fact, it is now possible for the city or municipality to determine the height, meaning 150 to 1500 kn, there are some criticisms that we hear that then some municipalities or cities may reach for the maximum amount, that they will be more but I simply view the income from the rental as income that fills the home budget, and as some cities and municipalities now help their citizens to pay the full amount of the school book, so there may be some cities and municipalities that will reach for the minimum and some for the maximum amount. What I mean is if you didn't know, Vodice has the largest number of beds in private accommodation, means the largest number of tenants, over 18 000 and about 30% do not have a residence in the Vodice Station area and have a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95042	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95043	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, we all know well, but I can also explain through the figure that over the past few years one of the largest increases in the number of certain taxpayers has exactly been in your private rental segment in the paushal system. This figure has reached a level of 95 000 which is not bad, that ducks, we should be happy and happy as you speak for the example of Vodice and some other cities, municipalities on the Adriatic but also on the continent, of course, tourism is developing more and more and more in this sense continental work. But I have to tell you one more time, the reckoning that the existing one was made in 2004, was then made on the assumption that one bed a day or at night brings 100 kuna and that 35 nights over the year was occupied. Which also means when you translate it and compare how much a tax burden is for a private tenant who in the system dropped up to 300 thousand kunas compared to someone who rents his apartment or real estate and pays that income tax. A significant difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95044	Thank you. Now we're going to go to the representatives' clubs and they're going to be the first to be, I'm sorry. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95045	I mean, the minister says here I am in five minutes. Now should I explain to whom the answers to his questions? You know what, actually? I'd better start with these other laws by the time the minister gets here. So, as far as fiscalization and cash traffic law is concerned, this law is a question for us if you don't write on your offer that it's a fiscalized account, in which case you can have a fine of 30-500 thousand kuna, and I've already asked this question on the Committee, so a colleague of the Ministry's representative said they don't have that kind of punishment, but to go ahead with the first warning. We'd like it to be in the law so that the entrepreneur doesn't have to depend on the inspector's will that day. As regards the Income Tax Act, the Amendment reduces the tax rate for taxing income between 17 thousand and 530 thousand kuna per month from 36 to 24, as you stated with the aim of keeping young people in the country and increasing salaries to qualified professional staff. We believe that this change does not make any moves towards a fairer tax system because the effects it brings will actually feel a very small number of taxpayers, and we remain one of the countries with the highest tax burden on labour and stimulate wage growth. What we do not agree with is that the flat rate of income tax is raised for renters in the tourist accommodation sector and local self-government units are authorised to determine the amount of flats in the range of 150 to 1500 kuna per unit of accommodation. We don't really know if it's going to be 150 kuna or 1500 kuna. The measure is one of the categories of undefined, without a goal, direction and vision. The initial income from the rental of tourist accommodation facilities needs to be taxed but an appropriate model must be found, given the importance of tourism for the national economy and social development. What we support in this Act, which is provisions relating to the non-inclusion of grants from the incomes of abstaining persons, as well as those on income tax from occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture. There isn't a minister yet. I'm gonna have to move to the Contribution Act. I can start over. Opinion on amendments and additions to the general tax law. Therefore, the extension of the right to use the Institute of Mandatory Opinion of the Ministry of Finance, to comply with the excise duty directive, to perfect the provisions on performance, to implement the exercise, to resolve the execution and establishment of the right to publishing and to edit other procedural institutes, we agree with these measures, and we can say that they are commendable. In recent years, business entities, especially registered outside the Republic of Croatia, have been observed to provide their services to Croatian citizens by avoiding the fulfilment of the conditions governing certain activities regulated by the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. In this way non-refundable tax benefits are realised, and operations against regulations may in certain cases cause serious and irreparable damage to the social community. In order to prevent this occurrence, the provisions of the OPC shall provide for the possibility for the competent authority to prohibit such a business entity from working. Since services are mostly provided via websites in those cases, the provisions of the Law regulate the implementation of the ban on the work of blocking access to Internet address content. As regards these provisions, infringement provisions have also been prescribed for Internet access providers and unless a job ban order is implemented by blocking the content of the website. We believe that this measure seriously violates the concept of freedom of international trade, and the regulation cited as the basis of such a provision has a clear intensity that any blocking of the content or the site is temporary and minimal, while this provision does not have the same intensity, but an intensification is eliminated from the market of all those who do not fully adapt to the objective sought. The aim may be to protect consumers, but we think that the primary objective is to protect the budget by reducing freedom in international trade. I'm definitely gonna have to move to the Contribution Act. So, by this Law, the amendments to the Law on Contributions, which the minister this summer had sent to an e-consultation which he wanted to increase the contribution coefficient from 6.5 to 1.1 and 71.5%, respectively. Of course, the entrepreneurs, or those most concerned, experienced negative comments and under the pressure of all entrepreneurs, and this proposal of the Law was also withdrawn. However, what is not good in this Bill proposal, which is that the Minister, after having decided to withdraw this proposal, has introduced a new proposal, which is that after one year of business, the annual accounting actually calculates the difference that entrepreneurs should pay in relation to what they have paid for the calculation of full-time contributions and what they should have done. Of course, the proposal did not go through public consultation and entrepreneurs could not comment on the proposal and so the minister could not hear their opinion. For this very reason, I put this Law on the Internet and isolated some of the comments that the entrepreneurs actually wrote on this latest bill that was never actually in the e-consultation and the entrepreneurs had no opportunity to comment on it. One of the comments: completely illogical and maliciously bureaucratic is uninterested and unintelligent, e.g. I wasn't busy for the first five, six years because there wasn't enough money, because then the law allowed it. Everything we could make went for a new employee because the job was spreading fast. The first three years just work, work, work and no big flow at the expense. Where someone's been paying for it since the beginning. It's not just a rookie, my husband has a 25-year-old company. For the past three months, he hasn't had any business or income, though, we've been in charge of friends for a regular life, so why did he have to pay any wages if there wasn't any income? If the state were to pay us back the unspeakable punishments for making up a crime, we would have been able to do that. For 25 years, the same company, the only one, which means a fool, not an entrepreneur. 10 could have closed them and opened that they were resourceful in Croatian way. Violence at the level of feudalism, the Count comes for... Whether it was dry or not, and I believe that even feudism was more humane, so he took... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Real estate, but well, I'm interested in the second scenario. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are an entrepreneur and you have a small child and you want to work less to be with your child, whether the government has a plan for this scenario as demographics, female entrepreneurship and other floscules. It's a complete disaster. You can see that people who pass these laws were never entrepreneurs for a day, you don't understand the basics of entrepreneurship, you didn't hire yourself, so there's someone who'll pay your salary, and you don't care where it comes from, but you have to earn your salary to earn time, a lot of attempts, and a lot of mistakes need to be made to make serious revenues, they think as employees, and they create laws for entrepreneurs. And not just in the first year of business. What about mothers who are part-time entrepreneurs and half on maternity leave? Well, they don't have to be in maternity care because here, I've been working hard for two weeks because my baby's at home sick and there's no one to look after her. What about the other sensitive, so to speak, groups? What about activities that take some time to develop like publishing, production activities, and others that take years to start normal work? These are the effects d.o.o. and J.D.O.O. equated with the legal effects of the craft, so... We're expecting blockades. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're forcing startups to open businesses outside Croatia. These laws wipe out the last risk space in this country, so far you've been able to risk it with someone, a b area of imaginary risk, now without a thick backdrop, so for the tens of thousands of kunas you have in the back and which, if you have, you won't risk, which must be frozen and fertilized, the sea of people loses space in their firms and even in their lives to try something. This shouldn't be like this in the blackest, wildest scenario, this is all the opposite of what the nominal values of capitalist planning and free entrepreneurship are. I am sorry that there is no minister to hear these messages that entrepreneurs leave on the latest bill that has never been consulted and that has not been able to comment, and neither has he had the opportunity to hear their opinion because he might have acted as he did this summer, he might have withdrawn this bill since entrepreneurs have a very bad opinion on the proposal itself. What I wanted to say to the minister at the outset, but here's how the minister doesn't, I'm going to have to do it without him, so when we mentioned these 11,000 kunas, 11,000 kuna was to calculate the total cost of one beginner in the first month of his business, so we added this proposal to increase the contribution coefficient from 0.65 to 1.1 and 71.5% respectively, from that amount to 11,000 kuna. The second thing I've just asked the minister, which is that we're going to do with beginners who in the first year of business simply can't have this amount of 1900 kuna every month for full-time contributions. The minister is commenting himself, and what are we going to do with them? I don't think it's right that because of some cases the minister considers abuse, although I don't know how something can be misused if it's lawfully allowed, it's not right for such cases to punish all those... And it doesn't matter, now you come back here, now I'm gonna do it all over again. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, Minister, you're this bill of law, this latest bill you want to make at the end of the year, so you're counting this difference on entrepreneurs that they have to pay as a natural person, you put it past counseling, so after the consultation, so the entrepreneurs haven't had a chance to comment on you, and neither have you had a chance to hear their opinion, because maybe if you heard their opinion, you might have withdrawn this bill proposal. I've prepared some of the comments that I found online on this latest proposal, but not to read them again, I'm going to leave them for you, so look at them because I think maybe if you hear that, you might decide to withdraw this proposal you made. 11,000 kunas, I have now explained, so I did not say that 11,000 kunas is the exact calculation of the salary, but when I took it, and you can read in the article all the costs of one beginner in his first month of business, and I added to this new proposed increase in the contribution coefficient from now 0.65 per 1.1 and 71% respectively, then all of this was increased and this was some example of 11,000 kuna. Now, what I'm most interested in is what you said yourself, and what about the beginners? Do you really think it's okay for beginners, so those people who decided they wouldn't stand on the desk, to punish people, as you say, who abuse that application for an hour? I don't know what number that is, I was looking for on your colleague's board who was on behalf of the Ministry to deliver that information to me, she said she'd deliver it during the day, she didn't. So I'm really interested in what kind of number it is, what is the number of members of the board of society who are unemployed? Nowhere, so neither yourself nor anywhere else, what is the number of companies whose board members are employed somewhere else in less than this prescribed full-time account you're looking for? What is the number of companies with company members that are registered for one hour, two hours, four hours or five hours and I don't understand how you think to encourage beginners if he simply can't, so I'm over my... A series of beginners passed, I can tell you that half of them couldn't make those revenues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just can't make it happen because they've just started, they're moving on the market, they don't have that money. And how do they pay for it? How if their only way out was to apply for part-time? I just read to you here, you weren't, here's the one I'll tell you again. So here's a lady saying, so it's not just a beginner, my husband has a 25-year-old company the last 36 months. He didn't have a job or any income. In fact, we're in charge of a friend's business for a regular life. Why did he have to pay for it if there wasn't any income? If only the state would pay us back the unsuspecting punishments for fabricated violations, it would be easy for me, not for 25 years, to talk about the same company. So 25 years a single one, if that man wanted to do business this way, which you're talking about, he could have opened and closed 10 companies by now, but he's had one company for 25 years and it happened to him that 3 months ago. He had no income, which is a perfectly normal phenomenon on the market. Because you can't regulate the situation on the market and you can't tell someone that he has to have that month for his salary. Now, I hope that your address will get this answer, for entrepreneurs and beginners, which we will do with them, because you are, in fact, making them, that all applications are full-time and whether or not they have revenues, they must, at full-time, calculate their contributions and I do not accept the argument that they do not have to pay their salary, because what you say, they have to pay only a contribution, and not their salary, so what you would like, that they actually do for the whole month just for the contribution and all the other taxes. Well, of course people have to pay their wages because they have to live on something. Yesterday, a colleague on the board said that no one is obliged by an entrepreneur to pay his salary. Okay, but he's got to pay 1900 kn and he doesn't have to pay. And what if the man doesn't have it, if he's only made 2,000 grand a month? So he has to pay his contributions and he's left with nothing. And there's nothing left for him, he can't apply for half the time, so that at least half that amount remains for him. So you simply refuse to understand the situation of beginner entrepreneurs on the market. The truth is, you deny me, you explain how. I'm telling you, that a beginner's entrepreneur simply can't, if on the market happens, that in 3 months. There is no income, no way to pay the contributions, from which they will pay. I was this beginner entrepreneur, I'm telling you from experience, so it just happens to you that no one is asking for your language translation services or web pages in those 3 months. What are you going to do? Where did you get this, I just want to try to explain this situation to you first. Either bring some or get some beginners out of it, first year of business. We need to find some solution for these beginners, because it's very important that every entrepreneur and small, medium, each one was once a micro entrepreneur and a beginner, each. And if we don't let him breathe in that part of it, that he takes his place on the market, then we can't expect small, medium, or large entrepreneurs anymore, because he's a micro entrepreneur, a beginner, if you don't survive, what can we expect? Which is why I talk so much, I care about these micro and small entrepreneurs, precisely because in Croatia, of 149, zero, 52 thousand active legal entities, 145312 are micro small companies, so 97.5 of the total number of companies are these micro and small companies. They have achieved 256 billion kuna of income, which is 37.7% of total income, they have paid 3 billion kuna on profit, which is 44.5% of the total income tax paid and precisely those micro and small entrepreneurs are hiring nearly 500 thousand people in this country, which is more than half your employees in the country, i.e., exactly 54% of the total number of employees. And that's why micro and small entrepreneurs are very important, because they make up almost 98% of total companies and employ 500 000 people in this country. And all of this, all of this I have listed, they succeed in a country that is 4 in the EU by tax burden, 12 in the world by tax burden and complexity of the tax system, in a country that has double-warning profits, in which they have 500 parafiscal purposes, a country that is 92 others on index and economic freedoms, 74 places per index of global specificity, and in a country that, as we see through the media lately, has a growing and greater terror inspection. Here, I hope you've managed to understand the importance of a micro and small entrepreneur who, at its initial stage, says the initial phase itself, had to be an entrepreneur, a beginner, who can't survive if we don't let him, at that worst stage, breathe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95046	Thank you very much. Here, five minutes, Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95047	Here, I hear you've given me an honorary representative, thank you very much, Vice President. I apologized, but you didn't hear, which is why I had to leave the assembly for a while. I've noticed and I've been following you all day, I know, and I've seen that between the other and the fashion statement during the day you've changed, the exposure and both, I notice everything, I've been sitting there all day, I've been out for just a few minutes, so here, I hope you don't mind. As far as this topic is concerned, here and now you've practically been doing this whole exposure thing, so let's take a look at it from the very beginning, where we've identified small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, micro beginners and everything. So profit tax, reduced from 20 to 18 for them to 12. 85% of Croatian entrepreneurs pay 12%, 85%, you know but you don't mention it, I have to mention. You introduced without any of the micro-small entrepreneurs mentioning it, the principle of opportunity, the opposition to the monetary principle of profit tax. Unfortunately, I have to say, a small number uses it, I don't know why. I don't know why. Because probably as much as they have a problem with the billing, maybe as much as the cost-expression. I'd like to use that option... because it was intended, that if its service or product of a "great" cannot be charged, let's call it so, not to say, in some segments it is even considered as an infamous large entrepreneur, that at least the tax authorities do not cut the tax and establish the tax liability of the profit tax and then have a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where we also went in favor. Entrepreneurs, all of them, and who both micro and small and medium. Recognise the costs of getting maintenance, service of motor vehicles official confirmation. We're back. 50% is recognised, today, by these morning changes we proposed no longer have the limit. There's nothing we're not, and then you come to a press conference, a few weeks ago and you say, come on, Minister, that you said, come on for £11,000, so it's no good now, it doesn't matter now, £11,000, I repeat again, never in that original proposal was there and you nodded your head, or, I guess, you agreed, it wasn't a commitment, but see if we're comparablely, comparablely, today you have 3439 kn, minimum wage, that means the base of these 0.65 depending on what your salary is, 5213, and that all means total cost of 4336. The cost according to that proposal is not 11,000 but 4950 kuna. So there's no prescribing any obligation to pay this or that salary. But let's get back to what you just said. So you yourself have cited an example of an entrepreneur who is 25 years old, so he is no longer a beginner and with due respect for all the problems, as well as a number of others, both small and medium-sized and large come into a situation that at some point lacks some sources of income, perhaps seasonality in business, perhaps a break in activity, a crisis, anything can happen. Of course, on a case-by-case basis, we can't always sort it out in some way. I don't use the concept of any kind of abuse here, even though you know very well that different forms of occurrence exist. I'm talking about tax, social and social justice. If you take a secretary in that company, if she's registered to a minimum so she pays more contributions than her director who actually doesn't have any obligation. So those beginners who are, they're not suffocating in that way, they're just, I mean, what are we talking about? We are talking about the commitment of total contributions at an annual level of 23,000 kuna. ... I'm not saying it's a little bit, that's the difference. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I'm not saying it's a little bit or a question of relative proportions, but I'm also telling you, so what's the point of going to entrepreneurship according to both laws and tax and some others, and how a craftsman and entrepreneur, so the purpose of earning some income, accomplishing some profit ultimately. [[Let's not go from bench to bench, so let's not do that.]] Well, of course it's an incentive. What does that mean, ultimately, if we all get to this level now, as some have suggested that we give the directors of the administration and the members of the administration the opportunity to deploy grossly, where we will end up, then we cannot talk about any sustainability or pension or health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95048	Thank you. We have two replicas. She is the first respected representative of Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95049	First, a fashion statement because I have to, it'll... The other thing is, you can't figure out what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] About that rookie. That beginner, 23,000 kuna is small to you, so do you know what 23 000 kunas were for me in my first year of business, so I've spent my salary every month just to make contributions. She's pulling through. So you'd take them and you'd pay them back. So people don't have, 23,000 kuna is a beginner, I don't know what to compare with, like you billions. So you have to understand that. That's what we're talking about. And you keep telling me it's not right for someone to pay, that someone was admitted for an hour, two, three, so he wasn't admitted for an hour, two, three, because he's a thief, but because he can't anymore. And then you say it's wrong that he's health insurance, so let's watch the man who's on the desk, unemployed, and he's health insurance. Well, at least this one's involved with some contributions. You can't look at it that way. I'd really like you to see on the market and open up your company without a zero kuna, without anyone, without anything and see the real situation on the market. We don't have a free market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95050	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95051	Thank you very much. Now, I have to say, no matter what you say, you didn't mention it to me in that public calling, now you're telling me exactly what you said then, let's go to the market and do it. So I've just listed some measures here that are exactly about how and how to make it easier for small, medium, micro beginners and everyone else. You pulled out a segment that we say has an element between everything else and tax justice in all of this together and now based on it, structures are all different made that we, or in particular me, have called entrepreneurs some ugly names, that we do everything to suppress them and the situation in practice, is, in fact, the opposite. Among other things, I won't say it on your part, but generally, among other things, manipulation of arguments on this subject has led to great confusion if you want between taxpayers in particular those small and medium, they didn't even know what was in force anymore. I think, among other things, we need a clear message from here that we're talking about right now, so it's not some big debate, but they're kind of supposed to be calmed down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95052	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95053	Well, you need to point out here exactly this mantra that I keep talking about. Let's take one law firm that has the status of craftsmen. He has a foundation like any craftsman who has to pay contributions to that basis he's prescribed. Nobody asks him if he's gonna make that month or not. Therefore, a micro and small entrepreneur must be in the same situation as a craftsman or a law firm, so the exact same situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95054	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95055	Here, if I can answer that, there you are, distinguished MPs, I'd say, quite right. And the direction that we're going to try to move on is going to be that the craftsmen continue to be relieved, because the fact is that, unlike entrepreneurs in this sphere, if compared, they have less opportunities in some way flexible, let's call them so, flexible possibilities, they're more or less prescribed and they act among other things. So our intention is, I'm going to mention again, maybe it wasn't so noticeable, but you're well aware that today we have too many different kinds of basics of contributions and at some point we have to start thinking among other things that we're going to do all this together and bring it down to the same level. I repeat again, I'm not saying that anyone had any bad intentions when he ran it but surely or I can assume that it was depending on which interest group was at that point louder or stronger, so it was delayed but today for so many different bases we have and eventually ultimately the most paid craftsmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95056	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to, so firstly, if the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the word, we have passed, therefore, we are going to the representatives' clubs and the first one, on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, will speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95057	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. So we're talking about basically taking on one side and then taking on the other something. Time is usually 20 minutes So the minister abolishes the contribution to employment and to labour injuries but then, on the other hand, increases the contribution to healthcare that is now one of the highest in Europe to 16.5%. [[Intruder Reiner: 20 minutes, yes.]] So we have, according to the budget, the health ministry has 11 billion kuna, it has HZZO 24 billion kuna. We're paying for additional health insurance, so health care takes one-fifth of the budget, baths in money, and it still needs to be given a billion and 300 million kuna. Here, tell me Minister Maric, this is where you said you advocate transparency, which will be spent by these billions and 300 million kunas. Here I am asking you to tell me if these are surgeons' salaries, whether they're orthopedic aids, building hospitals, children who don't have drugs, CT devices. What are you going to spend a billion and 300 million kuna on if already 40 billion of those I just said aren't enough, not what? I'll tell you what you spend it on, spend it on debts created by your governments and that you don't know how to cover within the system. We will pay the debts and so is the easiest, so can the Turkish Sultan when there is no money to increase contributions and taxes. What guarantees do we and all Croatian citizens have that after we increase our health contributions to 6.5%, there will be no more debts. Do you have any guarantees? What if the debts continue again, what happens next? 18% contribution, 19, 32, where's the limit to that? You have an incompetent minister in front of you, Minister Kujundzic, who absolutely has absolutely nothing to do, who absolutely respects the programme crediblely, which says there will be waiting lists cut by no more than 6 months and we see according to reports coming to the Parliament that they are extending and that all the longer they are now for a year or two. We see that this same minister has not introduced any improvements into the system, no law has been sent to Parliament, no single one. And now you're rewarding that Minister on the burden of taxpayers another billion and 300 million kunas, so it's really out of your mind. Instead of telling him, look, you can't do your job, get out of the way, let someone who can handle 40 billion kunas solve the problems. No, he will get another billion and 300 without any guarantee of what it will be spent on and whether debts will continue to arise. And when I say you don't know what to spend it on, that contribution to the injuries you're taking away he didn't spend on work injuries, you tell the Croatian public. The state audit has shown that this money was spent on purpose, and that's your problem with why there's no money between health and health care. Here we come to the main but hidden goal of this entire call for tax reform, which is that Croatian citizens pay debts in health care. And then, like all together, the payload decreases by 0.7%. Imagine what progress that is, it doesn't even have in this "Life on the scale" such progress huge, 0.7%. And now it's going to be 37.2%, it's going to be 36.5% pay. And yet I have to ask you for that word competitively, how much is in Bulgaria? How long is it in Romania? How much in Hungary are payloads? You know? Less than 30%. Less than 30. And now they're growing and we're not growing. Here, if we had a Romanian salary account, let's say that they calculate the labour price at the same time would jump the salaries of 100 euros to all Croatian workers without increasing the gross base. 100 euros. Now, that would be a reform for you. Well, an annual thousand and 200 euros, so here you can say that thousand and 200 euros will pay the director's, I don't know, you'll sort something out, tuition for students or something. And what do you give? You give the worker who has an average salary in Croatia 17 kuna. Let him have a Coke at the Zagreb cafe and say, "Here's one of our countries that has growth in all the indicators that have surpluses." That's wonderful. Now you can eat the cherry strudel. With that, you will keep the people in the country with 17 kuna. Why didn't you raise yourself 17 kuna wages? Why don't you raise the managers, why don't you raise Prime Minister Plenkovic, the president, anyone? You did not increase them by three, four thousand kuna on average, starting in 1.1, of course, in 2017. And what's the problem? The problem is, the country is leaving people with low wages. When it happened, here's a single example that a parliamentary representative said I have a small salary, I'm going to Ireland, I'm resigning as a parliamentary representative? If the government minister said I wouldn't be working for $18,000, I'd go to Germany to work in the IT sector. Did the mayor resign? Did he give a manager at the INA, to the pension fund, resign? No, he's not, and he never will because he's great here with your reform. But there go workers who have four thousand kunas. They're leaving. Massive. And you no longer have workers in Croatia. Neither fasadere, nor these CNC operators, you don't have waiters, you don't have tourist employees. And you'll see, you'll experience it, if you keep this up, you won't have a hairdresser, you won't have a nurse, you won't have a nurse, you won't have anything. Here, try when something breaks down in your house to get an electrician, a plumber, it's gone, and you'll be waiting for three weeks. And that's the result of the eviction, and that's because you don't want to secure a higher salary. Greater wages, yes, only for those who have more than 17.5 thousand. It's your reform. And how many people have these higher salaries, 10,000 people in Croatia have more than 17.5 thousand. Ten grand, imagine. There is a consensus about this in the Croatian public. I believe you've read the public debate, read the media. So everyone stands for higher wages, trade unions, workers, employers, craftsmen, everyone asks for higher wages, it is rare that in Croatian history at all that you have a unique opinion of opposing camps. And did you raise your salary? You'll say we are for 17 kuna. So do not make us laugh; that is not a raise in wages. How with 17 kunas you'll keep a Croatian waiter standing at 11, 12 hours on his feet and not say he's tired, as you just said you were tired because you sat there for 7 hours and went out whenever you wanted, and in Austria, that waiter has 1,500 euros, has accommodation, has a diet, has... Did you know that the Austrian market opened in 1.7.2020? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How are you gonna keep it? With what? Why does Austria want Croatian workers, and their own country does not want them? What are you going to fill the budget with if we don't have workers in tourism, in catering? Will you keep that growth, of course you won't. You will say of course, we give each family 870 kuna a year. The family can have three members, they can have 10 members and then they get 870 kuna, if, because by reducing the contribution there is no guarantee that this money will come to a contribution, can be kept by the employer, VAT can also be kept by traders, so we have no guarantee, and yet we have a guarantee that everything is ideal, what do families get? Families get 70 kuna per month per family member again 10.15 kuna thanks to tax reform. And what are those amounts? These are crumbs from a table where you HDZ gentlemen are very richly honored, very rich. You have real estate, you have rolling stock, you have high wages, you have shares, you know how to settle yourself, and to Croatian citizens here are 15 kuna per family member in the budget and an increase in salary of 17 kuna. That's what you call growth. So you have to understand that so long as you really don't raise your salary, really and really don't raise your home budgets, or the standard of citizens, the citizens will continue to move out. And that's the message that I have to say, which from the ground up, is tearing down the meaning of something that you want to call tax reform. And I still need to tell you one thing, very important, they're not moving citizens just because of your salary, so go to the Zagreb bus station and ask them why they're moving out? They move out simply because they no longer trust the institutions of this state and, above all, politicians. They don't trust each other. They don't trust the institution, they don't believe what you're doing, they don't believe in your tax reform. And you know why? I'll tell you why. Because you allow a gray economy, a hundred times I've told you, you don't do anything about it, that wages are paid on your hands or that they don't pay worse. That the overtimes were not paid, that they were muddled with payrolls in all possible ways because you didn't want to solve the Swiss case, and you could, at least show as much courage as Minister Lalovac showed, he was braver than you, with that I don't want to amneste him here from the bad policy he was leading because he was brave because he felt what it meant on his skin, he had credits in the Swiss so he realized that he was an injustice. Because you haven't solved the problem of overpaid interest, because you haven't abolished the executive law, because you haven't unblocked the citizens, you've just formally erased them from the FINA, and you've left their debts as they are. Because from year to year in the budget you increase items for the ministry and the state is getting more and more expensive, half the budget's money goes for the cold drive. Because you've hired 4,000 new provisions in the state administration and I don't agree with what the Grbin representative says, literally the arrests, the citizens are getting smaller, we're getting bigger and bigger, more and more officials, more and more employees getting huge salaries to surf on computers and implement bureaucratic measures, fill out forms that no longer know the end or end. Because you're saying that you're expropriating citizens interestably, which is a complete lie, a lie. Nowhere in Europe, banking margins are as high as in Croatia. means what banks take on interest, minus what they give for the savings they've been saving on sight, nowhere is such a profit like in Croatia, nowhere, the banks have earned in the last year 12 billion kuna, only on that interest, profit pure. And they have 27 billion kuna liquidity. You know what you should have done to Minister Maric? You should have done the opposite. To give the citizens 27 billion, and to the banks two, that would be a reform. To enable craftsmen to earn 12 billion kunas, 14 billion, not banks. Banks have to do something, they should place money in the economy, they should be in entrepreneurship, they don't, they prefer to give Vukic money to keep them, rather than to participate in the life of Croatian society where they have earned the enormous profits they need for 1,000 years of life, not for one mortal life. You say we've increased, I've already said that, how much prices have gone so it's not normal what prices in Croatia are like. What does an increase of 17 kuna or 70 kuna per family at such prices mean? Let's turn around from... Citizens cannot pay for the directorship and have official statistics, that Croatian citizens cannot pay for the directorship, not that they do not want to, they cannot. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can't. You write in your program authentically how you will remove parafiscal intrusions. What parafiscal intrusions have you lifted? Why does a housekeeper have to be published every six months?? Performances from the birth certificate, driver's license, passport, tuition, licenses, art, measuring fees, do you know how much these parafiscal charges cost Croatian citizens? Six billion kuna, six billion. Why don't you ban the tax, when you have a study, Mr. Vukovic, it's my guess your colleague, published at the American university, that the tax is nothing but corruption at the local level, nothing else, you have scientific work. Where's the cut biggest? It's known, where the biggest corruption is, in the city where your local partner rules, and what you're going to settle, that they should be allowed a cut, not 18%, but as long as it takes. We need to calm down, Mr. Bandic, Vrdoljak, Galavaša, Kristo is expanding, now we need to calm down, there will be a little Ronka, so Sauchu, soon there will be more of these defects of sociodemects. That's the way you do tax reform. Why don't you cancel your mandatory membership in HGK? What's it for to go hunting for a polar bear? Why don't you cancel the HRT fee? 960 kn would come to any family to abolish the HRT fee and the cost would be twice as much as your tax reform, a billion and 200 cost of HRT and you would still get rid of 180 thousand of each year's work, and you could still make 300-400 arrests, these incasators, public notebooks, and I don't know which. And yet, remember this very simply, the HDZ rating would grow at least 5%. I'm giving you almost a solution in your hands, too easy. What does this forest tax serve as a percentage, what is it spent on? For the tourist community, the monumental rent, so who can name it more and more absurd, and the laws that you make. You've passed the law, so far you've punished these poor, poor, trying to survive for the surplus in the register, and now, according to the new ones, you're punishing them for their lack in the register. Be careful what reform it is, not anymore for the tall, but for less than 300 thousand kuna. You've got a shortfall, but now you're going to get an even bigger cut. So that's just absurd and that's what people want to tell you. You're writing highly in the program crediblely, we're going to achieve a 5% GDP growth, where is this growth? Why don't you attract investment, why don't you cut the profit tax? Again competitive, how much in Hungary's profit tax? 9%, how much do we have? 12%. Where the Germans will invest, then Hungary. Do you know how much they invested only in the automotive industry? 24 billion euros. Hungarians produce Audi, Mercedes and BMW, Hungarian products. They're asking if Orban is a populist. They don't care about Orban and I don't know what. They want to know where the lowest profit tax is. And you're missing a dead opportunity to take over an investor. If the Hungarians are nine, you give seven. So let's see, maybe he'll come, I'm sure he'll, do you know how much Estonia has on profit tax? You want me to tell you? 0%. Which country has greater GDP growth, Croatia or Estonia, and of course Estonia. You have 5% of which you can only write nicely, when it's election time, but like this in reality, you can only dream. I've now given you a series of comments here, on your proposed tax reform, I hope you've heard some of it. Perhaps by some miracle you've finally won, I know that once or two of the remarks they've adopted. But I'm not done yet. And what I have to conclude, I'll tell you during an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95058	Thank you very much. The next club is that representative... And I understood the replica, not the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have a colleague of the coat of arms, where he is injured. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95059	He's injured in art. In 238, continuously, during the debate, I ignored all the untrues, which were presented by the esteemed counterpart Bunjac, but it became unsustainable until the end of the debate. And just for the sake of reporting to the Croatian public, I checked all the tax rates he was making, but this last one for Estonia broke every measure, it's about a country with a 20% profit tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95060	Thank you very much, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, because it is rare to bring out incorrect things here, untrue things, things etc. Therefore, if we were to judge whether or not the Rules of Procedure were injured, I am afraid that we would have to act very often. Everyone says what I think they're saying, judge the public, of course, the public also has available data, so see if anyone's telling the truth or not. Here's a colleague of the Bunjac, in which the Rules of Procedure has been injured, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95061	... We see that another SDP agent is taking the roads of Sauche and Ronke, so I wish him a happy trip. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95062	A colleague of the Bunjac in which the Rules of Procedure is injured, I am warning you, because of the abuse of the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and please do not do it again, I will not allow such things. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, he will now speak to the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95063	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, in Estonia 20%, in Slovenia 19, in Hungary 16% and in Croatia 12%, and for 85% of users, 18% of total. So, as far as profit tax is concerned, I think there's clear data. But let's get back to the subject. So when we talk about, let's say then I can start by comparing tax rates and contributions. So we are, and that's what we should say, and it's really so on the tax burden of one of the most expensive states' salaries. So we have rates in Bulgaria, for example, 10% of the income tax, pay in the Czech Republic 20 to 23.35, Romania 10, Serbia, let's have now, or 10% plus 10, they have a different rate of 15 on certain incomes as they move to Slovakia 19, if they exceed 25, and that's partly where we have touched this Income Tax Act. Because first of all, when we talk about tax burdens in the higher pay segment, which is the proposal that the HNS also proposed, the minister of wages which, for example, are extremely visible in the IT industry, in tourism. And this is an increase in the threshold for entering the higher rate. And we need to make that clear. We hear a lot of people get rich. Like they don't go. They're going. But you know how they go? That's what I mentioned earlier at the O.R. Officially they stay here but companies are reported if they are internationally in Serbia, Hungary, etc. Then what are they paying us? Nothing. And by the way, at the salary of 4.5 thousand kuna net taxes and contributions and a cut you will pay about 260 kuna depending on where you live. At four thousand kunas, the net salary is 75 kuna. If you have one child at the amount of $5.5,000 you pay nothing net if we talk about a personal deduction. On average pay with one child, so about 6300, 6400 kuna you pay 300 kuna taxes. That's what the state takes from you, that's what possibly some state changes can give you. These stories about how the state gives someone who has 18 grand, 20, 25 and doesn't give those of 4, so where does he give them when he doesn't take anything? Because we've done it before, that's a good thing. Now, the second question is why people have 4,000 kunas to pay. That's the basic question, because that's where we feel, of course, that wages are needed and there's got to be as much as possible. But it can't make a tax policy make someone pay more in terms of tax repression. Because inside the same if... the individual costs shall be distributed more or less depending on which percentage, or which class the person enters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are talking about the single labour market, as I mentioned, I would really once again point out that the allocation of shares is and welcomed to leave the income tax model at the allocation of optional shares where it has been 24% so on and on so far so that I will use one table where actually an effective rate, effective income tax rate and contributions to compulsory insurance on income from stock plans, so when an employee is put in place if he meets certain conditions as a kind of bonus. In Croatia that was 93.17%. In Slovakia 35.05, Hungary 30, 34, Slovenia 25, Czech Republic 22, Romania 16, Poland 14,37. And then we get to that story I told you. If we're talking about stock companies that are multinational companies GOOGLE, UBER, I don't know anything, and then it's easier to hire them in some branch that's not in Croatia. And I'm afraid this transfer to a capital income tax or 3.6 rate will not bring us these necessary desired changes that, it will definitely reduce, is not disputed. But me and I believe that we should take the same attitude as in other capital receipts and incomes, and that's 12% plus a cut. After all, it depends on where 14% and something. Because basically these people, if they want to cash their stock, they have to pay that 12% again, and this cost can be arranged whether it goes to them or to the employer. So it's not exactly double taxation, but it won't lose a lot of states and we'll keep that key piece. Of course, again, I know that it will be said that there may be possible abuses but here we are talking about shares that there are not infinitely many of them, and if there are going to be some larger amounts, first of all, then we should be very interested in our people who are employed here to acquire rights and capital in this way. Furthermore, something I said, this one, an increase in the threshold of our proposal, thank you for accepting it, I think it's something that our top experts will keep here or bring back some... Also one of our proposals that has been accepted, i.e. Absolutely must be said and fellow Jovanovic is there, it is also our minister's proposal for scholarships and awards of students now considered in terms of the non-taxable part that will not make students who, as before, receive 15 thousand or more kunas in the year stop being able to be as a relief to their parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same treatment is also in the nature of the books, and that is what we must clearly say that we are satisfied that we have accepted it. When we talk about some things that aren't there. First of all, I would like to introduce a non-taxable part of a hot meal or food supplement, but not in monetary form, but in the form of a kind of voucher, however you will, which is strictly intended to spend on what they are given. This aspect also has one health character, and from above all the multiplier effect of it on our hospitality, especially off-season, so when we speak in winter at sea, and when we speak on land, I think it would have been highly paid in tax revenues when we speak of VAT due to consumption, of increased employment due to the scope of work etc. And again through income tax, etc. So I think that this is something that I would certainly like between these two readings if the Government can do with its amendment, because it does not cover that part of these articles that are changing to correct and try to think maybe if not in this, at least in some subsequent change that it is certainly being considered because I think it would further increase the competitiveness of our workforce and absolutely and thus also make it easier for employers. And one thing I'd also like to consider here is a fee for using personal vehicles for official purposes. We have a fee of up to 2 kn, I don't know, but for the last 15 years, if I'm not mistaken in 2003, maybe even before. All you have to do is look at the price of the fuel that was at the time, which is now. And let's get this straight, that's up to 2 kn. If it were to increase, it doesn't mean, and I wouldn't be absolutely willing to increase the civil servants or, above all, to us here, but to others, yes. Especially if we look at the context that we have now allowed 50% cost to be recognised for vehicles, for VAT, then this would be some logical sequence that something that has been for 15 years, and we know what they were then about 5-6 kuna was then a liter of fuel, today it's over 10 and other dependent costs when someone is using their official vehicle, and especially when we're talking about... and avoiding certain taxes in this way, we know that by now by 15 in the month you must report the use of exactly such, such use, or that fee for the use of private vehicles for official purposes for the form, respectively... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there would be absolutely on the clean and whoever's really going, who'd have to prove it, I think that would come out for our entrepreneurs to meet, especially craftsmen, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about contributions, let me get this straight. So those who are employed and have to pay contributions on another basis do not pay kuna contributions if they are a member of the administration or... But I'd turn another story here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We now have craftsmen who, let's say another profession, who, if they make an income at an annual level, pay all the contributions they can pay, and the employees are somewhere else. This means, translated, their employer pays them contributions to health care, he earns income as a craftsman, pays health taxes again. Why? Double taxation. I think you should think about it. It's okay, retirement yes, extra income yes, but why again health care, and he's employed by an employer and paid. Maybe think about the difference, so take a unique rate when you look at it at the annual level, but not double. So if he's deposited one piece there, we add this amount and we have to see how much difference he has to pay, not double. I welcome this part of course that we have also responded to change that not everyone is going to increase for contributions and to remain at the level of 0.65 and of course we were immediately communicating that not all can be classified in the same basket. If some take advantage and, as the minister says, are employed an hour a week and are given the right later by the Law on Minimum Pensions and Health, it is certainly not an intensity. For those who register as beginners, there are certain measures. As the owner of the company myself, I used the measures for new employment. There is also a measure when you are a beginner or craftsman to get a advance one-year amount of precisely these contributions that follows you and of course you should think about people who start these companies whether it must be d.o.o. can also be a craft where some contributions, of course, are lower. Generally, as I said earlier today, when we're talking and even about cobwebs about renting, that's where we say 300 now goes from 150-1500 and we're letting local self-government units determine. So no one will pay any more of these changes or have to. If we even take them. People will get employers less payload obligations if we look at a reduction in the contribution to a total of 0.7. Those who have higher incomes should not be ashamed of them. Yeah, we want high-level experts, we want those who make a lot of money, who can export services to their products on the market. I come from Osijek where the IT sector has grown enormously, employs thousands of people now, why not develop that branch of industry, and their services on the world market are extremely cost-effective,... And of course he's going to teach you a man, now I'm telling you a life example, coming up, is that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Irrelevant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three years working, learning, getting some initial salary, maybe 1000 euros and then climbing him and he says after 4-5 years I'm going there to get 3 times as much. And that's the problem that entrepreneurs today have with us in Osijek. This is exactly what we're helping them with. Or someone thinks we shouldn't do it, so let's make it clear. Let's chase all those who know how to get out of the country. And we want them out. I don't want anyone going out. But you can't even give him more than 100 kn. But you have to provide a framework that will allow me to make more money. And that, yes, is our obligation through a series of measures and laws that we need to do and which we need every day. We had housing yesterday, demographics. So I said the same thing yesterday. Only individually it won't bring anything, it has to be a set of 50 different things, tax, pension, anything further. The 13th salary the minister mentioned that he was thinking the same thing, it would be the same one of those things in the direction that would go, and I ask that these suggestions between reading and some of them being adopted, consider seriously what we have given, first of all on options, a warm meal and subsequently, whether calculations should be made, whether it is now those 2 kunas, can then be up to 2.5 kuna along with the clear fence, and that does not apply to us here. In conclusion, of course the HNS Club will support in the first reading with these remarks and I hope warmly that I really didn't hear some counter too much today, somewhere I did and I can praise even some. My colleague Jovanovic had two extraordinary suggestions for me, two quality proposals, but I can't remember any others, I have to admit. I've been here all day, we've talked about everything and everything except give everything to everyone, so wherever it takes us. Or some others do something, why don't we just be like them? Yeah, but you should never invent hot water. If something works somewhere, then of course we should take it and do it. Here, I thank you for all the suggestions you put into this bill. I think they are better quality and will certainly contribute and be one of a series of measures that will contribute to a better quality of life, to the greater incomes of our citizens and, of course, to a more competitive economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95064	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that HDZ. What? ... in the name of which the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So we're talking about one law, but it's very interesting that no one speaks under what conditions and what a real tax burden it is regarding income tax. Because when we take everyone involved in the activity or are employed or self-employed or retired, according to the information I have, it is 1834299 outside of tax scissors, i.e. They don't pay taxes. Of these, 931 thousand and 59 persons employed, 856281 retired and 46959 independent activities. At the rate of 24%, they were taxed 909711, and at the rate of 36%, only 18944. So 16800 employees, 326 pensioners and 1757 independent activities. Why did I go out with this, actually why did I start with this data? For the simple reason, the whole halabuka is made about changing this law about increasing this tax class with a rate of 36% as if it were a few hundred thousand people, now someone is favoring it anyway. But what's the worst and the worst for us, which is that almost a million employees are out of tax scissors and nearly 856, actually 856 thousand pensioners. I also want to say one more thing because there are contributions in this package. The average Croatian salary for an employee who has 2 abstentions is practically not taxed, has some fine tax. However, its full burden is a burden with contributions. And you take, so one average Croatian salary is loaded, the employer is loaded around 93.94% with contributions, and only 6% with taxes. So, on the one hand, we're talking about the incompetence of labour prices in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, these two contributions create a deficit in the state budget each year of around £20 billion. And I'll talk about it more when I talk about the law on contributions. Mr. Minister, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I'm going to start with something that's kind of uncontestable to us, but we'd like to consider it between the two readings, which is a flat-rate taxation for the tenant. You said well, that proposal was made in 2004 based on 35 days renting, 100 kn bed prices, the 30% cost that is recognised, means times the coefficient of 0.7 and times the 12% tax rate, I think it's about 294 kuna and that's round to 300 kuna and since it was 4 classes, that lowest class or D category was 150 kuna. That's when I don't know if we've had 30,000 registered tenants. I have the last data I have, in 2011 when there were 42 thousand, in 2017 there were 94 thousand. And very interesting that in 2017 compared to 2016, the number of renters increased by 10 thousand from 84 to 94. And what's very important here is that the state is constantly said to be centralized. The government gives the bill a unit of local self-government to decide on their representative bodies how much they want it to be paused, they know best what the situation is. And whether their range is 150 to 1500 kn, for the simple reason that you have our tourist resorts where you can very hard get more than a hundred kunas for the bed but you also have places that are very attractive where you can get a lot more. So the government put it down to representative bodies of local self-government units to make a decision. They know best what their situation is. And what's questionable to us at the club is, since the government has put down its powers to the representative body of the local self-government unit to make a decision on heights, it has set the lowest and the worst sides, I know Mr. Minister, the principle of income tax to pay for the place of residence but we also have that principle, the taxpayer is a taxpayer where he stays for more than 182 days. But I'd like to consider the possibility, so this is our club's proposal, until the next reading, given that according to the data I've received, it doesn't go to a level of RH 10% of people outside the place where the renter's real estate is located, but there are smaller units of local self-government where that number goes up over 50, 60. Perhaps because of these smaller units of local self-government, because of their financial importance, they should consider perhaps the possibility to make an exception here and see if there is a possibility of paying it there. But I'm saying, not breaking any principles because if we've already deviated from the fact that the local self-government unit can determine taxes and let's see, but I'm saying, that's our club's proposal to consider until the next reading, and I think it would be a commendable move primarily for smaller units of local self-government, but I'm saying, on the other hand, we as a club wouldn't insist that a hole in the basic principle of income tax. But I'm saying, since one exception was made because, and then that means if you agree to it, then it would automatically mean that the taxpayer would pay the taxes that apply to that unit of local self-government and not the cut where he lives. The next thing you'd like to compliment Mr. Minister is this possibility, your suggestion that temporary and seasonal jobs in agriculture are taxed by 12%, that's something that's constantly commendable for a lot of reasons. And because of the lack of workers, and because these people unfortunately look at the annual level, they can hardly earn much more so that they have a tax refund. And we also want to praise that which is that the scholarships that students receive, also compensation from insurance paid for serious injury or recognised disability, excluded from something that excludes being a personal deduction to their parents, I think it's a great help to students for a simple reason, it's perhaps one message to those young people that the state takes care of them. So, you're considering the expansion and training of these tax classes, so it's estimated that local units will total run out of 210 million kunas will compensate the state. Next thing you know, who would like to speak specifically and especially emphasize on behalf of the club, these famous contributions, to make noise and halabuka. Usually, in this country, those who have access to the media and very few of them are very few interested groups, when they become a little blocked, a lot of noise is made but no one asks Croatian craftsmen who, practically from their drafts, have established a basis for insurance and have never objected. They were paying, so they were long, until... The law and practically their own property guaranteed tax obligations, they had no salary but their full income was wages, these people were working, they were at the service of the citizens and they never objected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You now wanted to make only a sign of equality and with full right. It's not right that someone who works somewhere for 12 minutes has a lot of health insurance and you didn't go restrictively with some high groundwork,... very important, the basis in this case is the basis of the craftsmen and the wages are two different things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that needs to be made clear. However, those to whom it has pasted these 12 minutes have made grace and halabuka and then no one asks the minister, well, you give it to us, but let's make it clear to you, Ministers, for the sake of $11,000, and let's see you pay for that contribution. So this is a measure that introduces order. This is a measure that protects those who pay taxes and simply those who don't pay, makes them pay. Now, colleagues and colleagues, do you know how many obligations have arrived and have not reached Croatian healthcare since 30.06.2018? 3 433 46 570 kuna and did not reach 3 676 718 248 and that is the figure that has been latently dragging for the past few years. And that's something I've talked about a lot of times after this pay phone and I'll talk again. And just you ministers with this proposal, you made one step. You gave the health care an extra billion and 400 incomes, and that's something that should eventually close that story in health care. They will probably be able to make some different contracts with their suppliers because they will be able to pay some things in time, so there will probably be some smaller commission and now look, someone says no, a reduction at an annual level of some 700, 800 000 entrepreneurs for the price of work is nothing. Yes, of course, it's nothing, but those 700, 800 million kunas that are going to cut the labour price, if the government doesn't make a decision, the entrepreneurs will have to pay. But the important thing is that something is wrong, and as I was talking about the Value Added Tax Act, and also in this law, the most important thing is that the proposals for these tax changes were made in accordance with fiscal projections and according to the estimates of the income and expenditure of the state budget during the three-year period. And what I'd still like to point out, which is in the general tax code, that provision about mandatory opinion. I think there was a very high-quality debate on the Committee on Finance where colleagues from the tax administration made it clear what mandatory opinion meant. So you, before you do any business event, ask the tax administration for a mandatory opinion, and you get it, and if you act on it, don't worry. But you can't after you've done a certain business event and certain business documents have happened, now you're going to be looking for a later opinion when you're aware that you've made a mistake. It's something that's very important for taxpayers, and that's what you said about how the tax administration not only controls, but also wants to educate taxpayers. These other laws are one technical alignment with EU directives. And finally, on behalf of the club for these nine laws, these bill proposals are left to Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs with 2.2 billion kuna. And that's the only fact, the only truth. A story someone won't cut the price, someone won't do this, we're like one today, regardless of the political belongings in this assembly should talk about how prices are going to go down and that in order to cut VAT, someone has to cut prices, and not we're looking here today, not us, but some others have been looking for a reason not to take the prices off. And therefore, Mr. Minister, the HDZ Club will support these proposals. I'm asking you on behalf of the club to consider this proposal. And what I would like to say as well as you and I as former athletes, people from sports, I think that finally the Ministry of Finance, not waiting for others to come up with some kind of proposal, first of all about taxation of the official persons in amateur sports, and also certain receipts in sports, because in such a way we will help athletes, in this way we will take off the headache of those who run sports clubs, and in such a way we will send a message that we care very much about sports, not only when medals are won, but we really want to set up some things, because the essence for the functioning of sports is the law on actually financing sports, it is primarily regulated through the Law on income tax and the Law on profit tax, and I think that this is something that the ministry should think about in the future as something that we should do. I repeat, the HDZ Club will support all these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95066	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95067	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. I was assigned on behalf of the Glas and HSU Club to talk about three laws, and this is the Law on profit tax, the Tax on Income and the Law on Contributions. And I'm going to try to talk as little as possible about things that are unverified, say something about my opinions and certain opinions about solutions in these laws. First, let's go from the easiest one, which is the Tax on Profits Act where it's actually about harmonising with European directives, and I don't think there's any obstacle here, unless there's a club that wants to decide in the package, there's no obstacle to this law being supported because there's really no change in profit compared to those in the law so far, there's no change in the rate, there's no change in what's important, but compliance with European directives is what I think is good because it's about increased control. The second law I would refer to is the amendment and addition of the Income Tax Act. Look, I appreciate Mr. Minister what you're doing and I'm following your work, and it seems very quality and very correct to me, which doesn't mean that we can't have different thoughts. My notion of state, social justice, or social justice in one country rests at 4 tax rates. Something like, I studied the tax system of the Republic of Italy where we have 4 tax rates that would fit around our system at 12 24 36 48, so it would kind of be very similar to this system if we had 4 feet. At that time, there is a filigree tax redistribution and, in some ways, a stronger social position, of course, such a tax system cannot rest on something that we have, which other countries do not have. We have a very, very low minimum wage. You in such a story can't, which means, that we have a lot of productivity, competitiveness and all the other stories, which make up the market economy, at a low level. So, I understand what it's all about, I understand, I disagree with that, but I can't stand up to it, because for this app, this system that I'm advocating, there's a lot of work to be done. Let's say I can't, realize that we're talking here, that if the family has one child, that's an untaxable amount of 5500. What good is it to me if my minimum salary is 3200 and when I get my pension contributions, it's 2700. What does that mean to me, that up to 5100 is a tax relief, which is why. I mean, it seems very, unserious to me to talk, in this way, about the non-taxable, or tax relief. Look, I claim, and I've said more than once in this assembly that for me, a minimum wage should be at least 5,000 kn and start from here. With that in mind, and here, it should be, if that's how the system was designed and here it should be, to make one shift from at least 3800 to 4000. Universal tax deduction for everyone. Regardless of the marital status, etc. So when out of 5,000 benefits are taken, there are 4000 nets left. Maybe that would be, that would be a lot better for a start than what we have today. But it is my experience of the tax system and I will always advocate it and I think it is fairer than the one we have now, and it will be what it will be. I was still, somewhere there in 2004-2005, messing with the present here, present colleague Mr. Shucker, while he was a minister, because there was one category, which is also mentioned here, the category is called return, Boric, please, the category is called the return of several contributions paid. In his time, I was against that story at all, because I believe that those who have salaries of more than 60 or 70 thousand kn cannot have limited contributions to the pension system, and they are limited because they are limited to the highest pension. And they, at the time, realised, were somewhere around 1,000 people, there since 2005-2006 they have achieved tax returns, more contributions paid, of course then the minister taxed it, with 45% and the rest paid to them. So they got, you with the highest wages they got their pretty 13th salary that way and they didn't feel bad and they didn't take part in helping those socially endangered and those who were in need. They were not involved in resolving the social situation, in line with their pensions. Now these people pay taxes, there's at least two, three thousand at 36 percent. So the bigger their salary, the bigger their return, the more their contributions are paid. I was against it, I was against it, and I will always be against it. Because, in the pension system, there's also the lowest and highest pension, and there's solidarity and mutuality, that whoever has more, has to contribute, to those who haven't been lucky to earn a good pension through work, and I'll always ask that this return of more paid contributions doesn't exist, so I ask the minister, that if anything else, it accepts this attitude and thinks about whether these people who have 60, 70, 80, 80,000 kn, whether they can drive 5 cars at the same time, whether they can live in the house and 3 weekends, whether they can hire the next 5 knees and whether it's a purpose, life in one normal state or their duty, because they may have been lucky to be directors, because they didn't create their own empire as a Roman, that they otherwise participate in the social reality of one state. So, I'll be very pleased if someone just takes it out on what I said here. So, I welcome this story so that scholarships and disability benefits don't come in, don't affect tax or tax deductions. But I would ask you, do you, because I think it's a good read, that for students, if, somewhere they work through a student service, if they earn more than 15000 kn, then their parents lose that non-taxable or tax deduction. I have a different opinion here now. I think that's where we're wrong because we're stimulating, in a way, overwork, and overwork, I consider it a student contract, and even in this assembly, I saw a special law on student affairs, and what are the jobs students do? Are these some space jobs, or less valuable jobs, or what kind of jobs are they? That's what I'm asking you, no. That led the ruling coalition not to specify further. I think we should take a look at Scandinavian experiences, lift this fly from 15 grand to 60, allow those students if they're good to work and make a contribution to retirement because otherwise they won't have 25 years of internships for the rest of their lives, they won't collect. To pay their pension contributions. You can free them from taxes, and so they're like students provided health care, but they create conditions for them to get attached to something. You know, when people start working at 35, they start getting more serious, older, telling her how much they retire? As much as I have to be a man at least, he tells her, I have to be 15 at 65 or 67, or I have to go early in the early hours, I have to have at least 35 years of internships. He says it's inaccessible to me. So here I think it should be a lot more flexible and create some new solutions. I think it's only fair that if students have time, of course they can't abandon their student obligations, but if they can work as a Scandinavian model that they can work up to 4 hours a day or up to 20 hours a week during the school year, and that three months over the summer they can work on a work contract, with a pension contribution payment and a working period running. The idea is, it's someone else's experience, I think it'd be fair to think about it the same way. So much for course, since I pointed out that as far as I'm concerned, I don't know how the rest of the club will stay, we're pretty liberal about it. Given my beliefs, I can't accept this system that was proposed here, although I say, I don't think it's professionally done, but it's not in my mental scheme. So, I'm sorry, but I know that you've worked honestly, correctly, but I just can't agree with that because my experience of the tax system is a little different. We're going to the Second Law, the Contribution Act. Now, I'm wondering if you can tell me until the second reading how a special contribution of 0.5% for the protection of workers' health has been collected all this time. How did he spend it? How much was spent on paying for illness due to injuries at work, how much was spent on professional rehabilitation or all of this went to a well called the health ministry budget or HZZO. Because if we have a dedicated contribution, not a dedicated spending, then things aren't under control. Secondly, I am to resuscitate health care, but once and for all. As is the time for shipbuilding, settle forever. Either you play by the rules or you won't be. Let's get this straight. Whether this contribution from cca 2 billion kuna that will be additionally blended into the health care treasury or the HZZO, will it reduce payments to the pharmaceutical industry by 100 days, and we know that now it is 900 days. How much in the price of medicines costs this delay of HZZO in paying the pharmaceutical industry. How much does that raise the price of drugs that pay neatly for our citizens in cash. So, I mean, I have no objection to solving the health problem, just know everyone here and Mr. Minister also, in the last 28 years of this country's existence, the report on HZMO's work has been here every year at a parliamentary session here in parliament. I'm asking you if you've recorded, has the HZZO work report ever been here? It wasn't. And we as elected national representatives have no idea how health care money is spent. You know, I'm saying this under emotion because almost every day I'm called "retired." What do pensioners have to do with it? I'll tell you nicely. Now 35 thousand pensioners are the only ones in the Republic of Croatia who can't say they're poor, but the only ones in the Republic pay 3% of the additional health contribution. And since 2009 when it was introduced, those 3% of additional health contributions have paid more than 600 million kuna. There's about 30 of them on average, now there's 35,000 of them. Now I'm asking you another question because they're asking me. What's the use of that payment? They have to pay him, they're not free of any additional health insurance, they're not free of anything, they don't have any benefits. They've had solid salaries their whole lives because they have solid pensions. When it started it was a census of 5108 kuna, now it's already 5800. So they're the ones who have significant pensions, but they've spent their whole lives paying high contributions to both pension and health care, right? Because it used to be that way at a progressive rate. And now they, 35,000 of them, are the only ones who pay 3% of their health contributions. To make the irony even bigger, you know, that's what our patriots were supposed to pay for, and our patriots' greatest patriots. But Minister Milinovic said by regulation no, you won't pay. It's only after a year and a half that the law has changed that defenders don't pay or pay for it, right? So I'm even more asking, because I'm asked by people, what's the cost, what's the purpose of their money? Because it's all falling into a well and it's being spent the way it's spent so 900 days not paying the bills to the pharmaceutical industry. Isn't this where we were told at the government's presentation that there would be a rationalization of the health system? I'm just afraid, Mr. Minister, that it doesn't end up in a well and that after a year we have 3 billion minuses in health again because there is no announced rationalization, no hospital merger, no good lord management, and people give neatly. Every month of the salary, every month of retirement, and it would be fair if we finally saw one business report and not that it wasn't there, and the audit reports are talking about unintended spending of funds in the health system. You saw the last revision for 2016 that she talked about. And look, as hard as it would be and with this feeling of bitterness, if you do this time in this law in another reading, solve these 35,000 people or otherwise give me your email, so let them write to you Mr. Minister, otherwise it gives me your mail, I will personally support you because it is one step towards solving and against the injustice that is in that story. The state pays 250 million kuna per year for 1%, pays 65 million kuna per year for defenders, and only these 35,000 people pay their contribution to their pensions and that is over 75 million kuna per year. Therefore, Minister, I publicly tell you I will vote for this law no matter what I feel bitter about such spending in the health system if you solve these 35,000 people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95068	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When we're listening to data out here and we're reading the bill and we're hearing statistical numbers, then you could actually say that it's all great, that everything is good and that it looks nice. It is certain that these tax reforms, which this ministry is headed by Minister Maric, have had their good effects from the beginning and that there are many positive effects in them, and these laws that are now proposed, cannot be said that these proposals are not good, that they do not have any planned good effects, good effects, but to me this simply looks like well-imagined food that does not have the right spice, which does not have that main food in them at the very least. And only on behalf of the club will I refer to two bill proposals. Income tax law and the Contribution Act. So, as I've already said on several occasions, I'm going to do it one more time. We're like HDS back in the 11th month. Last year, he set out to point out the problem of too little salaries in the Republic of Croatia. Today, thank God, many speak, all speak, and what is most important is spoken by the lords. I've been on several economic councils, the Koprivnica-Kristevnica County Chamber of Commerce, where we've been told each time, people influence the responsible in the state, assure them that they simply need to take a step towards an increase in wages in a way that is not additionally burdened by entrepreneurs and the economy and that people ultimately get a higher net salary. That's our proposal from the 11th month. Last year he was focused on the minimum wage, later we updated, edited and accepted an additional proposal from his fellow Mišic, who came with the idea that it should actually enable entrepreneurs to pay up to 5000 kn, depending on their performance results and of course the labour market, to pay salaries without additional tax burdens or contributions from those who are now on minimum wage. My question to the Minister and to the Ministry is whether, at all at this time, the preparation of these draft laws and at all these stages of tax reforms, the possibility of focusing on those who have the most and who need this help, which is those half a million citizens who have a salary of less than 5,000 kn net, and to see models and ways to get there. We as a club and as a party we've been doing some of our calculations, but I'm not doing numbers here today. I would like to see such a proposal come out of the ministry, from the government of the Republic of Croatia and, in the end, it is a very clear message to the employees of the Republic of Croatia. I'm afraid with all the good we've heard and what we're offered here as advocates, this, the bill's amendment, this third phase of tax reform, will not leave that feeling positive, will remain that feeling of bitterness, precisely because of these people, precisely because of these layers of citizens. I ask you, once again, to seriously consider these possibilities between the two readings and to suggest to us some solutions in that direction until another reading, to where they are possible. Of course there's always that question, if we go, and who's going to settle it, where the funds are going to be found, it's a normal thing, if you don't raise your wages, yes, that burden has to be borne by the state. But the good part of the burden is returning to that country, because if people will have a higher salary, they will, of course, spend more VAT, pay more VAT, and again in one good part, that amount of funds will be returned to the state budget, we will get one social security of citizens, who will probably be more satisfied and who will not leave Croatia so much, and employers will be able to breathe much easier and work much easier on and be so to say competitive. I'd like to look back here a little bit more on the occasional catering work. I'm saying this because we have this part of the seasonal work in agriculture here, and we often hear a lot from the caterers who organize weddings, so the weddings that organize some major programs, have a problem with that weekend, the evening one-day hiring of extra labor. There might be some possibility of finding a model, not for seasonal employment, but for some occasional work in catering, with a certain satin, with the same... This part, like the seasons in agriculture, that we also allow the caterers to organize such a thing, so that they can find work force and people to earn a kuna, extra, if they want to work, and surely want to, this is how they have a problem inventing various ways of doing it legally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that we as a club, especially HDS, but we agree with the club's views, and so far we're all agreed on that, that unless there are these amendments to the bill, to the second reading, we can hardly support these two laws, we can hardly support them. It's a really good intensity, we have really good intentions, we want to point out these problems, we're all aware of them, I know that the Ministry is aware of them, but simply, if we don't make a certain move on this plan, we don't make that step, in the end of the day, all the other things we do, we'll be very questionable. I'm not going to talk about the fact that in law we have this part of the 24th and 36th percent high-income tax, let people have what Col. Curray used to say, those who are highly educated, who are well-paid on the world market, let them have good wages, let them be. But I'm more interested in this moment, and I'll always be interested in it, that 500 kn gets someone a higher salary that now has 3,000 or 4,000 kn, than to get 1,000 kn someone who's 17, 18, 20 grand. And I'm really saying it very openly and frankly, it's not demagogy, it's really like that. I think we need to turn in that direction, that we need to be interested in those half a million people, who have a salary below 5,000 kn net and try to keep these people here in Croatia and, of course, not in a way that we kill entrepreneurs, not in a way that we create a press, but that we can also give them a certain match on the labour market, that entrepreneurs can compete for as good workers as possible, who will, of course, have the opportunity to move into companies from one to another. Your Honor, I'm telling you all of this for the best. I'm saying, I'd like to hear if you've ever thought about it, if you've even tried to figure it out, if any teams are involved in that part of the job, if they are, I'd like to know the arguments and hear why it's not going, why it's impossible. I personally think that nothing is impossible, that everything can be done here, and in the end, you said yourself that you have stabilized state finances, that for the first time there is a surplus that I congratulate you on, and I think it's time for us to turn to a man absolutely and maximum, to people who need it most right now, not from social initiatives, but just so that these people can start living with dignity, that they can make money for themselves and their families, to get loans, to buy real estate, to rent, to do what else, to simply start to spin that wheel because he's getting all sticky and very hard to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95070	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HSS on behalf of whom the respected representative Kreso Beljak should speak, he is gone, he is losing his right to speak, and the next club of representatives will be the SDP on behalf of whom the respected representative, Peja Grbin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. During the debate on the first three points of the agenda, I talked about government obligations, I talked about public services and their financing, and in particular about the risks to the decline in quality that are continuously present. And as much as this was highlighted in terms of the first three points because we were also talking about reduced tax revenues, consequently and the resources available to the state to finance public services, this is even more pronounced here because we are talking and talking about a law that directly relates to the financing of public services, specifically to health and care for the unemployed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, look at the example of the contribution, let us now, for a moment, just a matter of the quality of public services, of their financing, of how they will be realized, let us look at just for a moment what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is about to give us and what shows as a great discharge. On the one hand, we reduce or cancel 2 contributions totaling 2.2%. On the other hand, we raise the second contribution by 1.5%. And now we've got some big discharge here and it's only 0.7% of the employer's salary. You've seen from my previous debates what I generally think should be distributed in the state and how the state should take care of public money but this is just ridiculous. Showing 0.7% as one big success and discharging is even worse than funny, and for me it's one of the biggest insults I can tell someone who behaves such a serious job as the Minister of Finance's job, the most serious. However, if we look at the structure of these contributions that we are talking about, we will see that there is a paradox. On the one hand, and I imitate that, regardless of those risks that my colleague Hrelja has been talking about, I certainly support a greater separation for health care. I think that our health care needs greater separation, I think that our society needs more investment in health care, I think that we need health care that will be more accessible to Croatian citizens, but I also think that investing money in health care is a good investment. For example, Croatia is known as one of the countries with one of the largest numbers of the day of sickness. We have a huge number of sick days that are largely caused by waiting lists. If we invest in the health care of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, if we allow them to be treated faster, to get the necessary healthcare, we will also have a direct economic impact. On the one hand, the effect that will be shifted to employers because you won't have to pay so much of those first days of sickness that fall on the burden of employers, on the other hand the effect on the state budget, or HZZO, which will not have to pay for the sick when it moves on to its burden. Of course, we will also have an effect that is more important than this economic impact, which is an effect on human health. counterpart Jovanovic spoke today about the fact that the difference from other more developed countries in which we have a continuous increase in the estimated life span of citizens, in the Republic of Croatia we have a decrease. And this is the direct consequence of inadequate healthcare. Therefore, this increase in or greater investment in healthcare is good. However, what do we have on the other hand? We have a reduction in health protection at work that is likely to go to HZZO's expense and eat some of this increase that goes towards HZZO, but on the other hand, we also have the elimination of employment contributions. I may not have been here, but I followed the minister very, very carefully through our internal constituency television, and I waited when they would talk about how we would secure that money. But do you know how many seconds not minutes, the minister devoted his money to something as important as encouraging employment and fighting unemployment? Not one. The minister didn't say a word about where we were going to secure that money. I'm begging you if you don't mind, call me back and tell me where we'll secure the money from. And don't just tell me that we're gonna pull all this out of the European funds. We can't just rely on European funds. I'm asking you to come here and tell us where they'll get the money to encourage employment. I'll show you that article 69. The law on rights during unemployment which directly speaks of this contribution, I ask you to give up this contribution, to abolish it, to agree with your colleague Pavic and to hurry to abolish the law or to amend the Law on Rights during unemployment because it is there as one of the sources for ensuring these rights, which we are proposing to abolish. However, he would warn you of something that our government did in 2012 and would suggest that you learn from the mistakes that have happened. So in 2012, the contribution from health care was reduced from 15% to 13%. We were hoping then, we were convinced, that this reduction that is more sensitive and greater than this, because this is about 2 percentage points, will lead to greater investment, employers, or entrepreneurs, to whom we will leave that money. I'll do it again, then it was 2 percentage points, this is 0.7%. Unfortunately, there was no such effect. And on the other hand, a particular health problem has been created, which, fortunately to the end of the mandate, has been resolved by Minister Varga. Of course, after all that you have ruined and returned not to 2014 but proudly to the past, but it is a topic for a whole other debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this proposal, and we are talking about the law on contributions is not a discharge but a spillover. You could add that from hollow to empty, but I won't. This is a spill that will create new problems. And for which you did not say in the opening statement how you would resolve them. So I'm really asking you, now, to correct your opening exposure and tell me where the funds will be provided. But it's only one part of these laws we're discussing. Next is income tax. Dear colleagues and colleagues to whom do we help by passing such a law? If we help those who receive minimum wage, we don't help, they won't get anything. All right, let's take it one step further. Are we helping those who get media pay or lower? So 50% of the people of the Republic of Croatia who are receiving incomes below 5200 kn, how much was the last media salary that I was able to find, we're not helping them either. They won't get a single kuna from this, they'll get zero kuna. And, well, let's at least help those who receive the average salary, so 6200 kn net about, and not. We're not helping them either. For all of these groups, the effect of this reform is 0 kn, they get nothing. A colleague and a colleague to whom we're helping, then? If you look at the amount provided for in the Income Tax Act and divide it into 12 months. You will see that this bill applies to those who receive 17500 kn a month before tax. Now to know, because you know how we have in Croatia, we have several categories, we have a net salary, we have a salary before tax, we have a gross 1, we have a gross 2, if on this 17500 kn, which is the amount before tax we add to the amount of taxes paid from wages. It is clear that these are incomes of €21740 gross per month. So this tax reform applies to those who receive more than 21740 kn gross monthly. Dear colleague Shuker, and I believe him on his word, because not only is he here for a long time, but he was also Minister of Finance, during his debate, stated that those who today pay taxes at a rate of 36%, and these are those with a salary of more than €21740 gross, in Croatia there are less than 20,000. Less than 20,000. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we do not make tax discharges for 1% of the richest in Croatia, we do it by 0.5%. The rest of the niche. The increase in wages, we only provide for those whose wages are already the highest in this country. I, as a socialist, cannot accept or support such a thing. And when we talk about ideology, ideology is this, this is ideology. We will give through politics and tax policy, help the whole society, invest in something that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia benefit from, or we will only provide money to the richest. You've defined yourself for this other option. And now I'm going to tell you something, it's your full right, it's your decision and it's your political orientation, but it's not a problem that you've defined yourself for it, the problem is that you're trying to show it in some other way. Call things your real name. Call things a real name, and that's to advocate the richest in society, because you think they're the richest, they deserve more than they have now. Be honest and say it. Don't hide behind the VAT reduction on cancers or anything like that. Be honest and tell me what you're doing. However, there is one problem in all of this, and the problem is called local self-government. You will reduce the income of local self-government through income tax. You're reducing income from local self-government, from what you said, I think about 200 million kuna, because by 800 and some million kuna, the total income of real estate tax, you're reducing it by one percentage point. And it needs to be compensated from somewhere. Where did you decide to take that money? And you're hiding here now and you say, we don't take, we're just creating a framework for taking. You decided to take that money from private small tenants. Otherwise, these little tenants have already been hit in the last two years, especially this year. The residence tax was increased, and as soon as it came into effect and as soon as people swallowed it, and I talked to many who complained about this income tax law, they did not respond adequately and did not rebel at the time, if the fall people did not rebel, then you gave them another charge. I've been talking about public service quality all day. I've been talking all day about how the money that appears in the budget should be used to raise the quality of public services. Through the example of health care, I explained how this has a beneficial effect on the economy of society and society as a whole. But when it comes to health care, you don't listen. When it comes to education, you don't listen. When it comes to fire, you don't listen. Police, you're not listening. But where you decided to increase the income of a particular community that provides public services. At the residence fees. There you raised them, and you made it possible for the tourist community, which, as a result of the increase in tourist traffic, made 20-30 million revenues more on the basis of the tourist tax. So last year, something will be increased this year that instead of 450 million kuna is charged almost 600 million kuna of residence tax, and in the following year it goes over 700 million kuna. To the tourist communities, yes, schools don't. Let the schools manage, let the colleges manage, let them withdraw money from the European funds. 'Cause I guess that's less important. And private tenants, except for the tourist tax, will receive another charge. What kind of coercion? Such that you will increase their framework for determining the rate of income tax, i.e. the flat-rate rate paid per bed. I have to admit, you're kind of right. The fact is, these breaker frames were set 10 or more years ago. That's right and standing. 14, here's a thank you, colleagues. It's standing. And it really is necessary to consider whether this should be increased. And it is really good to leave it to the local self-government to determine on the basis of its experiences whether it will leave it at the level that it is now, whether it may reduce or increase it. But I think the frame you've set is too big. This is about five-fold increase, five-fold increase. There are units of local self-government who can't wait to apply this provision of the law and increase it to the maximum. And despite what some may think, who do not know anything about private accommodation, private accommodation is not one of those business activities in which a fantastic profit is made where suddenly everyone who deals with it runs honey and milk. Private accommodation, and we who come from the area where private accommodation is well developed is a job where they do well and only make the best money. Only the ones who invested the most. And investment in private accommodation, if you want to secure a good apartment and start from zero, reach a million kuna. A million kunas. And since this is about private renters who are not in the VAT system, all of this needs to be paid for by VAT. All those favors. The state got its own, no pre-taxes, no tax breaks on tourists. All of this is carried by a private tenant and carries on the moment he enters the investment. And now we're rewarding them for all of this with these tax premiums. In my Pula, in this year the fall or stagnation has been recorded by apartment settlements and hotels. But those who have raised tourism in our city and who have made sure that Pula several weeks earlier than usual achieves two million nights are just people who are engaged in private accommodation. And the benefits of these tourists, especially at the time when Pula threatens an economic disaster from other sources, feel all citizens and citizens of our city. Because the moment other industries fail, this unfortunately became something that's almost the only thing we can turn to. What exactly did we do with this? We've decided to help the richest in society because obviously what they have is not enough, so they need to be given more, and to those who have made the effort, we're going to make money to take that money to give them something. If we took that money without reducing income tax for the richest, we'd still say yes, but this is a direct compensation for the deficit in the budget that will result from 0.5% of the wealthiest in society. There's a singer named Vojko V. and I'll use the name of his song, gentlemen can't. It can't be like this. If you already have to raise income tax for the tenants, and I agree there's any reason for that, then let it be something normal. Let's go, let's double it. Let's increase the upper limit and put that frame at 150 to 600 kuna. Let's take a step further, let's allow units of local self-government who think they don't need that income so they don't introduce income tax on rent at all. Let's put a frame from 0 to 600 kuna. But don't go to 1500 kuna, it's too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95072	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformist and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Robert Jankovics will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95073	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it. The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95074	A microphone, a microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95075	I'm sorry I didn't notice the microphone wasn't on. So, through the fact that we help those unconscious entrepreneurs become conscious entrepreneurs, i.e. to get involved in the VAT system as soon as they cross 330000 kn, but on the other hand, they will have the opportunity to change the Law of Contribution to contribute less to the salary, so that is, these famous 0.7%. Indeed, when a man says 0.7% does not seem much, however, it is a sum of 950 million kunas that will remain for entrepreneurs. It won't cut, it won't raise the salary, but it'll cut the labour price. What I think, if we look at it, we say a political goal, which forms in 2016, certainly fits at least according to the attitude of our bench. So, on how to determine the basis for the board members, I absolutely agree, I think that the chairman of the Committee on Finance has made it extremely clear here, therefore, that we have now had craftsmen who have been brought into an unequal position in relation to the members of the company's administration and that this is how we correct it. As regards the other two segments, the amendment of the Law on Contributions, therefore, related to agriculture, related to the nomotechnical harmonisation of vouchers, due to changes in contributions and related to seamen, therefore, of which there are about 12000 where the tax charge will be made at the end of the year, we believe that it fits perfectly into a fairer distribution of tax burden. As for the other most important, therefore, in addition to the amendment of the law on contributions, I consider it particularly necessary to look back on behalf of our club on the amendments to the income tax law. So, first of all, we should say that in 2016 we also reduced the tax rate from 24 to 40 to 24 and 36%. We leveled and raised the basic personal gain to 3800 kn for all taxpayers. We have introduced a single tax class of 17,5 thousand kuna per month for the application of the tax rate of 24% and have raised personal profit for children and other dependent members, all in order to avoid where we can manipulate the tax system or income system. I believe that, raising the non-taxable part from 17.5 in this case 30 thousand, or, annually, from 2010 to 300,000 kuna, is a good solution, because that way we will raise the salaries, exactly the one of the finest personnel that we have the tendency to leave our country, whether it's informers or doctors. Well, fortunately, we're not politicians, so I think it's a category of people, especially doctors, who come to that rank for at least how much information we have, so paying them a good message, I understand that it's only some 18,000 people, but this is a targeted reform, and I think that this solution is appropriate. As for the flat-rate taxation of family accommodation, anyone well-intentioned, who could listen, this whole day, for 12 hours of debate, could understand that it was an option. So, you don't have to, it's clear that in 2004, when the Parliament made a decision on 300 kn per bed, that there were completely different circumstances, and we didn't have this kind of investment in highways, and neither did we have that much investment in accommodation, then the price of accommodation in private arrangements was about half as cheap as it is today. And the best thing about it is that it's an assessment of how much it's going to be left to local self-government units. What's dubious and what my colleague Shucker said, is it a good thing to pay for a flat in a local self-government unit where there is a residence, not where the apartment is. Indeed, in some areas, such as Vir, Nin, this could be a problem, since they will now make decisions, which will refer to the people of some other people. As far as agriculture is concerned, I am related to the reduction of VAT on certain products, commending this idea of the minister and in the morning, changing the way of taxation from 25% to 12%. And without making an annual application, it is all in the direction of those political decisions that we made in 2006 regarding scholarships and, in particular, payments in the 3rd pillar that are no longer subject to taxation. And not to mention, therefore, the profit tax, which we already did in 2016, this time just harmonize, the general tax law, the mandatory opinion, too, we had, as counterpart Shucker said, an extremely good debate, on the Committee on Finance, I think it's the same good message, maybe we need to further explain it and especially on the IP blockage, all those who love bookies know that we have unfair competition with domestic companies, and this is what we're going to do. That is, administrative cooperation in the field of tax, reporting if a failure occurs is something we haven't had so far, and this is how we handle it. And here's the last six laws that I consider appropriate to comment on on on our club's behalf, that's the law on fiscalisation in cash, which has caused a lot of storms in the public. So we're not talking about the part where these offers or informal information will be written that this is not a fiscal account, of course, that anyone who followed could have known by now, but never very careful. But in terms of punishment, anyone who's been at sea, who's had dinner, lunch, or bought ice cream knows that the bills are more rare than the rule. And it's very easy to avoid the penalties we've mentioned so much, that there's a possibility of punishment, closure and everything, you're issuing an account, no problem. As for information on the penalties themselves, the information that we have in 2018 is 14 thousand, I don't know if this has already been said before me, 14 thousand controls of which, therefore, even 45% have been established, so irregularities of 6300 controls, so irregularities and fishing were only 280 and 2%, respectively. No one is targeted at fishing, so the goal is to protect honest entrepreneurs from cheating on those who are not. As for the position of our club, of course, we will support these laws, but I think it is appropriate to remind and reiterate that, on the issue of the Law amending the VAT Act, we do not consider a good idea to reduce the general VAT rate from 25% to 24% if the Minister or Ministry had calculated that, if we had a billion and 600 thousand kuna in 2020, I think that the sectoral reduction of VAT as we did in the bill we discussed earlier this afternoon would have been much, much more meaningful, or we could improve perhaps, or reduce VAT both for agriculture and for the most potent population such as parents with children. All in all and this reform is about confidence in Minister Maric and his associates, we have this trust further and we will support these laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95076	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came to my colleague Miro Bulj, he's gone, he's losing his right to debate. So the next one will speak to the esteemed representative, Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95077	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. I will, in this presentation, look individually at one part of all these laws that are proposed and actually one problem stemming from one of these laws and it is about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income Act. You're probably probably already here with this introduction that I'll probably talk and here's what I'm saying about small, or private renters. And now I come from the area, from the place that it is, which will surely be affected by this law. A little while ago, a colleague of the coat of arms was talking about what our position is, and I can only repeat that that's exactly the way it is. You on, over the back of private tenants want to do something else. You want to fill out what you shouldn't. But I would like to remind you of the fact that this very proposal of the law has caused a series of comments, a series of remarks precisely by private tenants. However, it obviously didn’t touch you very much because you simply turned down everything in turn. And it seems to me that somehow you don't live in this time or this space, or you're not familiar enough with exactly how small and private tenants live, with which problems especially those who have their own apartments on islands or who are not, which may even be complementing the home budget, who have some sort of a certain social compensation for what they can't achieve with their regular incomes. So what I'm saying is that you want to leave this law to local, local, regional self-government units to increase or to determine the range of 150 to 1500 kuna the amount of tax burden or flat-rate. And this particular decision can make a number of new problems. First of all, there was no previous analysis and impact assessment for the adoption of such a proposal if the city or municipality increased the amount of flat-rate. What is possible or what is to be achieved by this measure, this measure can bring more revenue to the local budget but can also lead to the fact that one part of the now-paying tenant is simply giving up on or out of the activity or moving into what already exists in the gray zone, in the area of illegal rental. And that's a fact. And that's what you've had a lot of in your comments on this part of the bill. Whether this measure will increase the quality of private tourist accommodation and that is the question. You should just respect the fact that in some areas of our tourism so let's say the part from which I come, the island of Prvic tourist season does not last for 2 or 3 months, it takes a month. Even in other parts of Vodice, it may take a maximum of 30 or 45 days maximum. I'll read to you here, this year what the locals say, for example. The city did not have a strategy for tourism development, so the wave caught mass tourism. We have become a destination for cheap accommodation, for example apartments are rented for 5 to 6 euros per bed in the peak season. It is probably also the result of a truly uncontrollable building of apartments and at this point there is something that has led to a large part not only of this town but also in other areas of Dalmatia to an exceptional reduction in accommodation prices. And what is now going to be achieved by increasing this paushale? I'm saying, probably, and it's possible that a large number of tenants actually go into this gray zone and then we're going to have an even bigger problem that many people point to and it's not going to be because of the lack of control of that market, that we're going to have an even bigger problem just because the inspector doesn't have, there's no one who can control that area and so we're wondering what this measure is really going to do, what you're proposing to do right now. So think again, look at what is being said, after this debate in the Assembly also until another reading I hope that you will change some of this and come up with a proposal that will be more reasonable and that will make far more sense than this now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95078	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95079	Dear ladies and gentlemen, this reform, as well as other government reforms, is not a central issue and the central issue is the role of the central bank. Whether money is debt or not, whether there's money to pay off interest or not, whether the course is real or not. Until these questions are answered, our society's problem can't be solved, the debt crisis can't be solved, and what's really most problematic is what's really most problematic is that if the state is dependent on a foreign source of money, for mere existence, then that means that the state is actually managed outside. This is the point of the problem, so Croatia is not governed by the Parliament or by the government chosen by the people but managed by foreign credit institutions. What will happen over time is that creditors will inevitably seek real estate tax because their goal is to take away our real estate. The idea that many people have that they can be rich and economically free in a country that is in debt slavery, unfortunately will not be feasible. The current puppet government actually juggles like a circus clown and tries to actually create an illusion that everything is fine even though it is aware that the current system is not sustainable or short-term and let alone long-term. The problem of distribution of tax rates, red tape, that's all second-row issues. Why? Because even if the distribution in Croatia was the most honest, even if there were not a single ear, even then it would not be possible to repay the loans. The reason for that is very ground-floor nature. It's about the fact that money for interest payments is never created or that in a system where money is created exclusively as a loan, money for interest payments does not exist. By the way, the loans can't go back. For this reason, we have a situation that the state does not return loans previously taken but only takes new and new and bigger and bigger loans. Why? So you all know that the state has a budget deficit, which means the state doesn't even have enough to cover the current expenditures from that financial year alone, let alone the money to pay off the previously created debt. Such a system actually accumulates debt, transfers debt from year to year and increases it instead of paying it back and reducing it. Whoever owns that debt is actually the real ruler of our country. My speech here is therefore not against politicians who conduct this policy because they do not do their will, they do not have their will. My speech here is directed against voters who support a servant way of managing a country that supports the destruction of their own future, although they have no use for it. So I could understand that some voter is voting for HDZ because HDZ gave it for example. Retirement to a defense attorney that he had no right to because he was never a defense attorney. I can understand that. But that someone votes for HDZ and has no tangible benefit from it or that benefit is disproportionate or negligible, and I can't understand it. And that's why I call on the Croatian people to get rid of the collective hypnosis and blindness they've been pushed into by the media. The media that are controlled, the media that are not free, the media in which the real cause of the crisis is not to be talked about, the media that hides instead of revealing, the media that deals with non-essential issues, rather than the media whose purpose is day-to-day political tension and internal game, rather than dealing with the essential issue, which is the survival of our country and our people. You can say that I'm lying, you can say that I'm paranoid, that I feel some fear that's unrealistic. However, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that our country has left more than 250,000 people in just a few years since its entry into the EU. Another fact is that the number of children each mother gives birth to or an average mother is a little above one, which means that even if we didn't have an outflow of 250 thousand per year, we would have a demographic breakdown waiting for us to disappear as a people. When these two processes are connected, which means a low birth rate or a low birth rate on the one hand and mass emigration on the other, it is clear where this policy leads to long paths. Maybe this speech of mine is nothing to you. Maybe he's irrelevant to you. However, I'm afraid that today when there are four million of us, say my speech today may in 50 years be a reminder and a judgment for a time, a time that ignored reality, a time that stuck its head in the sand and the time when truth was irrelevant. At this time I appeal to all young people to actively engage in politics, not to allow the state to fail before their eyes, and to take away the soul and earrings and destroy what little life is left in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95080	Thank you. You have one replica, for a wonderful miracle, the esteemed representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95081	Thank you very much. Agent Pernar, you're talking about life on the line. It's an interesting paradox. According to Minister Maric, we have a surplus in the budget of a billion and 600 million kuna. Would there be a surplus in the budget if Minister Kujundzic's debts were paid? Would it exist? No, you wouldn't. Five of those surpluses wouldn't be enough. So he doesn't pay his debts and then he says I have a profit. That's how I can do it. Here, I won't pay for the director's appointment from next month and I'll say, "Here I have, I can save now." That's the logic. Would he have had a surplus in his budget if he had paid the debts of Croatian highways? You wouldn't have. So that's an interesting situation. We boast that we have a billion kunas in earnings, and at the same time 300 billion kunas in debt has a government and another 400 billion kunas in the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95082	Thank you. Here's something to say, dear representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95083	Well, fellow Bunjac, this is actually an excellent thing to say. It is said that the dues currently in health care are three billion, and three billion are also missing. Of course, they say they have some excess of a billion. However, as you yourself have said, if we settle the debts, they are back to normal. However, even if this topic, or even if these debts are not the subject of debate, the budget is still negative. The budget is anyway minus, the budget is such that it's unsustainable. But as I said, not because Minister Maric does not know how to spend money, although he probably also signs pointless costs such as buying those military planes, but is the primary problem in the role of the central bank, which is why our society generates an irreparable debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95084	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95085	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, this... In my individual debate on this six-united law package, I'm going to make a few ideas and remarks that I've heard so far, I haven't heard during the debate, so in the final word, I'm going to give the final court on the whole reform and round up what I was saying in the morning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the basic problems of the Republic of Croatia is that we have Croatian salaries, what would the others be like? Or European prices. When you compare fuel prices in the Republic of Croatia and, say, Italy, it's here somewhere. You have a euro and a half there, you have a diesel, and you have 65 cents of gasoline. We can talk about gas, we can talk about electricity, if we look at the share of the directors in some basket, some kind of income, we know ourselves that it's actually abnormal and that it's a huge pressure on our citizens. With all that, there's still an announcement of the fall gatherings. They regularly go to the Republic of Croatia, they often call it that, in line with the market with Europe, like this. Not to mention that telecoms, or the Internet, phone calls, that we're here among the expensive, perhaps in some of the most expensive things. This is the end of the story and the consequences of giving the monopolies of Croatian telecoms, including some, when we talk about INA, energy, we gave these companies that have been created for decades for petty money and we know for ourselves on the basis of corrupt actions and foreign interests that are now exploiting our citizens. It is all direct and indirect pressure on the Croatian budget. Why indirect? Well, because, in the case of INA, we have a situation where we have increased costs for arbitration. Because of the increased costs of the state, there are expenditures, and then of course how they're going to charge the expenses, we all pay it one way or the other. I'm going to the real estate tax issue now, which is related to the court fees because this law that I first cited was in that first round in the first three. In Croatia we have, we know some only 7% of arranged land books. You will often encounter situations that are about a quarter or a fifth and there are even absurd situations one hundred seventy-thirds, or I don't know how they got to it by dividing the country. I don't know, you don't know where that person is, it's not registered, many, many catastrophic situations. And, of course, when you have such a poorly arranged situation in land books, including a catastra, which is part of the judiciary, that's again the problem of our judiciary, there won't be anyone coming to invest and enter a job that isn't legally secure. And people, of course, like to take care of their country, and while they're taking care of their country, while they want everything to be 1/1 if possible, or at least to be registered to living people and not to someone who died in Austro-Hungarian, they still have to pay taxes. I will now refer to Article 15(1) which speaks about it so when real estate tax is not paid. So in the case of mates, descendants, and ancestors who make up the vertical line, he's still talking about foster parents. And that's the story that ends with it. However, situations arise that do not include this group of people that someone who is not in the direct line is the owner of the country and I don't know, I live on that country and I would like to sort myself out, because I de facto enjoy that plot and let's say that other person enjoys the other person where he lives and that's where I'm listed as me or some of my ancestors. You have a whole range of land-book situations around real estate swaps, transfers, donations and such things where taxes are paid without paying taxes much faster would be taken care of. People are demoted by tax payments in such situations, it demotes them to go to solve property legal relations and it slows down land-booking, thus making it more difficult for any reason to encourage, invest, build on it and so on. If we had now, I'll say, a thousand attempts at taking down land books a year, and we pay a big tax, if we took off taxes, or if we cut taxes, it would certainly encourage people to go through books. We might have 10,000 of these attempts a year and pick up a much smaller tax on that, or we don't get a tax at all. Therefore, it is better to collect a small tax on a large volume than a huge tax on no volume. So I ask that, as far as the Court Tax Act is concerned, and what was in the first part of this, the Real Estate Tax Act also think about such solutions. I see I'm running out of time. As for tourism, that and when the first round of your reform was there in 2016, when we had to settle it by the new year, both reading was one convenient conclusion, all of it would be paid by foreign tourists because it was reduced by that tax, i.e. was raised tax from 13 for tourism to 25. Now we have a hit on the tenants, one window of 150, 1500 kuna is provided, will be decided by the most likely units of local self-government. OK, and in the main when we talk about renters, we are talking about the Croatian Adriatic, Istria, Primorje, etc., but what about rural tourism. There are also rentals in rural tourism. The town of Karlovac in its 430km square km has one household of rural tourism. That's your answer from the head of the town of Karlovac, one at 430. If you go to the country next door, let's say in Italy there's a small municipality every 200 meters of agrotourism, agrotourism this, agrotourism that. Go to Austria, it's a similar situation. He would even dare to say that there are more tenants in a small municipality or in several municipalities in such countries than perhaps in all of Croatia as far as rural tourism is concerned. Therefore, what a blow to rural tourism to say again is not regulated enough by law because it is something between hospitality, tourism and agriculture, it is just waiting for us to see. Well, I'm asking you to take care of that, too. And finally, since I'm running out of time, I don't know if you've read or discussed the memo she sent you, here's a letter sent to your office, Boskovic 5, a letter from the D.A. It is mentioned inside that in several laws in the Income Tax Act, in real estate sales tax to add one clause, i.e. to equate marriage mates with extramarital friends and of course we know by the Constitution and with life partners, i.e. informal life partners. These laws, which I have stated, do not contain that formula only mentions a mate, not even an extramarital friend. However, the general tax law states all of this, in the general tax law there is a full formulation but it is not a waste to prescribe this complete full formulation with all four syntagms in all these laws that we are talking about here. Here are some of the ideas and improvements that would significantly facilitate many things in Croatia and not cost so much. They may not cost anything at all, but they're just absurd and pointless and it would mean a lot to people. Here's so much for now from my suggestions. In the final word, I'll give the final court to all nine laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95086	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Goran Aleksic but he does not have the right to debate, so individual representatives of Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95087	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. So here I am still obliged to correct the allegations of a representative of the coat of arms who said it was those income taxes 20%, it's a tax on paid profits. So there's a big difference between profit taxes and profits paid. I just wanted to say a little bit more here about the competitiveness of us and our neighbors. I said that Hungarians have a profit tax of 9%, but you know that those on 100 euros invested in Hungary still give 35 more. The state is giving another 35 euros per 100. Plus the profit tax is way lower than ours. And then they hired, watch out for Hungarians, who went through the worst communism, the one from the Stalinist type, who didn't find out until '90 practically what bananas look like, they now employ 300 thousand workers in the automotive industry and produce German cars. How could they and we can't? They're up by 4.8%, and we're up to 2.8. What's causing it? Confidence, incompetence, bad taxes, or maybe it's just that they don't have HDZ. Should I even mention the Hungarian judiciary? What is the territorial structure, we have 428 municipalities, 128 cities, so it's ridiculous. 9000 doctors. It's those earrings I'm talking about. 6 drivers have Minister Tolusic, people are looking at it, and normally they're desperate, here, people are texting me now to get out of Croatia, to watch this, that it doesn't make any sense, that they won't be there, not that they won't be running the turns, not that they won't be dealing with entrepreneurship, not that they won't, whatever they don't want to do. They lead themselves, their families, go away, and the solutions are simple. All you have to do is get it cheap, whatever you can cheap, and it'll come back guaranteed, more, for every billion you give up, it'll come back to you twice as much as it came back from 2017. 2.5 you're like unloading 3.5 you've come. It's the same story, I don't know, who took taxis in the City of Zagreb, while the start of the ride was 40 kn, no one took a cab alive. Taxis stood in columns, on the bus station, here on Jelačić's salary and no one was driving, now they're driving, everyone's even retired. Why? Because prices are down. It's drastic. Look at the tram tickets, now they're 4 kn, who's smuggling? No one else. You could learn something from that, but you just don't want to. Why don't you solve the incentive system? With us, incentives are given to those who don't need them. You heard what Governor Vukic said, banks offer loans to those who don't need them, and at the same time, they don't give them to those who are looking for them. That's not funny, 27 billion have banks and don't want to place them in the economy, so take them. Why did you refuse our tax tax on banks we wanted to give for demographic measures of 2.5 billion. You know what would have happened to the banks if you had imposed that special tax on them? Absolutely nothing. You know how much this would mean to our children, to get rid of this issue, already hungry children, to solve the issue of transportation, these textbooks, curical reforms, everything you're saying. Now let me tell you, I'm dealing with your own document, the program credible, and I'll even tell you, on which page it says, on page no. 7 says that you will invest in an educational and scientific system, that you will double the number of scholarships for students and students. Double them, invest in science and innovation, in technology. I read further, a program that is credible in the system of science, we will continuously increase R & D allocations, with a view to achieving 2% of GDP, 2% of GDP will be given to this. Is that what this tax reform has done? It's not. What can I think of you? You're telling lies, you're smudged, you're discharging 0.7%. Any tax reform, which does not dissipate the economy at least 1.5%, which would require 5 cannot be called reform and even less successful. I read to you further, your program will introduce a system of scientific recruits, set up a new Croatian fund for research, development, tax relief you will encourage investment in start-ups. You'll be lending to young people $350,000. Where are your loans? Please, those are your words. A cat's tongue. What you did with education and science, you left it to the CNS. Now you have a maternal relationship and you say let it be funded by the EU. Children who are socially at risk can't get textbooks at the beginning of the school year. That the only change that has been made, erasing the names of father and mother and testimony, these are the major reforms that you listed in your election program. Now you're going to push it, for the next election. So promise me, I don't know, that we're going to fly to the moon, that we're going to have all 10 thousand euros, the SDP signed in plan 21 that there will be 6000 kuna pensions. It says, with a letter and a number, the paper suffers everything. But people still move out, people still don't know how they're gonna pay for the directors, how they're gonna pay for the heating, the gas, the wood, what they're gonna eat tomorrow. People don't have coffee. There's some booths, look in the streets, everyone's walking past the plague stand, no one's buying anything. Because they don't. Why don't you at least listen to the recommendations of this Croatian Employers' Association, they are somewhat close to you, they say, don't tax a warm meal, accommodation of transport workers, additional health insurance. Why are you taxing your 13th salary? Here, at least pay 13. Don't tax them, at least listen to them so much, I think it's normal, don't tax the logs, don't tax the rewards, you say it's settled by the rules, always some excuses, always. That you speak well, you understand all that, but this, but that. You're the executive authority. I can finally say, on my own behalf, and I believe in the name of my party, these reforms were simply not worth reading and regretting God of effort that I was even reviewing that pile of paper because it is obvious that after this reform, not only will there be no improvement, but we will actually be worse than it was before. Mostly because these reforms are based on a neoliberal model that is completely wrong. We need a new model and economy and society. However, even in this neoliberal model, this reform is a preconservative, superficial, sterile, irrelevant, and in fact another classic con of voters. If these are your reforms, gentlemen, we are free to conclude that there is no reform. It's about a simple buy-in of time, because of a government that's self-sense, pretending to be something, and in fact it all comes down to the fact that there's not an interest group that I've listed in my previous exhibits and a very narrow elite of people, somewhere 10,000 of them who are fortunate to have salaries of more than 17 and a half thousand kuna. I have to conclude that you either don't know how to do your job or you can't do it or you don't want to do it, and whatever the reason for that is, I'm sending you a message just step back, there's someone who's willing to do the reforms, and that's the Live Wall party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95088	The next individual debate was attended by respected Stjepan Curaj and Ivica Misic. They're gone, they're losing their right to speak, so now, on behalf of the MPs' club, they're finally going to say something to the respected representative, Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95089	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, to the Croatian public who is still following us. I'm going to round these five minutes what I said at the beginning, this is not a reform, this is what I call it in the first place, and what is now presented as a pension reform, by a judicial one, those as rescues for the blocked ones, will not convince anyone that the situation in Croatia will almost change. It's pure cosmetics, it's more of a play, there's something to do, there's a couple of tiny positive shifts that I've said are, but the general state won't change. The general situation in this country will not change until we deal with clientelism, until we deal with nepotism, while our best people will not leave the country, which is due to lower wages and that is of course the reason, but because they are pushed by someone who has a certain membership card, depending on what part of this country is, in some parts of the country there is a regional party, we also know what national parties are working in that position. So it's like being in the V.I.P. The club, all of a sudden it opens up for you, and you have a job and you can get a job with a city or city firm and enrolling a child in school is no longer a problem and coming to a review that is unfortunately waiting and for a few years now is no longer a problem, all of a sudden everything opens up for you. Negative selection is done, although those who are members of a party and those who do not pay a similar or same tax, some are unfairly privileged. Whatever we want to do, we have to invest, it's best that it's a domestic investor, it can be a foreign investor, of course it won't come here to lose, see if it brings a million to get 2 million out. He's looking to win, and we have to watch if we're going to get from a foreign investor or it's going to be some hospitals that come like Mr. Concar. But not to go further on to Mr. Concar, for investment, or development, is about funding. We have big problems with funding, at the same time we have 27 billion in banks, which they do not want to place, at the same time Croatian craftsmen and farmers cry out, suffer for cheap money, loans, such as free funds. Now as Mr. Tolusic gives 0.1% credit, after 20, 30 years, but how many? As many as there are in... Money, as much as there's a couple hundred million, even if it's ten times as little for everything that's been going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are, of course, conditions, no burden will be imposed on banks either, nor will the state administration be reformed, nor will the number of commissioners, directors, 10,000 or how many councilors be reduced, not even in the judiciary in which projects worth billions are captured, I listed two of the Croatian... and many others, will not go into the fight against corruption, nor will they systematically deal with the performances and blocks that eat up Croatian pensions and Croatian salaries, the most isolated ones, in rural areas, the less educated and older population. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither will the police system, nor will it be touched in parafiscal concoctions. The double standard also remains the standard, the elite and those who are not. It won't be touched either in public procurement, no, nothing at all, those 10 things or 20 things I've listed, nothing to touch, nothing to reform, there's nothing great, there's a leader in the world, no, we'll reform the tax system, we should, but not like this, in a way that will at best stay here somewhere. And says Mr. Jandrokovic the other day HDZ is the only serious party in Croatia, mother dear, the only serious party. Well, if she is, then she's probably deaf and blind, and unfortunately she's not dumb. So in these 27 seconds I'm left with, I'm just going to invite citizens not to buy propaganda and marketing and realize that change can't happen with existing structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95090	Thank you very much. The next final word on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will be her respected representative, Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95091	Thank you very much, Vice President. And here we are in the end, and we're actually left to kind of sum up what we're saying today. The minister gave himself the right at the beginning of the day within the first of that package to still list a broader picture, so I will now look back at this package I am talking about, but at the beginning of the debate today. The fact is that this reform has actually caused one general rebellion of entrepreneurs and all that we can and welcome within it remains shaded because the entrepreneurs rightly resented the Ministry of Finance's intention, at the end of the government and the ruling option, to impose on them the payment of something they believe already as entrepreneurs bear at their risk, and if they are willing to give up their wages, invest their funds, invest their family, their friends, their loans and everything else, to decide how little they will spare for what their income would be. And they felt the attack. So out of a lot, I'd say small changes, because this is hard for me personally to call reform, but more than one tax discharge, all that would be positive, they felt it wasn't enough compared to what they were going to lose. After that came another escalation of dissatisfaction, and this is a debate about the relief for those who have the highest wages. So here, all the parliamentary deputies were begging not to be stopped by journalists to ask them if you were getting paid, they were all somehow hit, so how are we going to discuss again whether we were under the scissors of those 36%, everyone was watching their reckonings, and you're looking forward to it, and I wasn't in it, and it turned out that the prime minister was in it. The highest-paid state officials and all those who have extremely high salaries, somewhere over 19,000 kunas net and then rightly raises the question and when will they argue more with those who are not in tax markets? Those who unfortunately have so little income that the Ministry of Finance, the tax administration, doesn't even touch them. And not enough is just a word we didn't take from you, but it's justified to give an answer to the question and what are you giving us? What are you giving us? Do you really give us the opportunity for the employer to save, the 0.7% through contributions to pass it on to us? And what I asked the minister today, will the state be able to pass on that 0.7% to its employees as an example? will change all the solutions and say here and we give you. And if they said here we did the first step, the real sector, and you do what you can, we relieved you, but we want it to go in the direction of the workers, so it doesn't stay towards you, but then the employers say again, but we want to get something in this reform, and when it all comes together, then I would agree with the finding isn't enough. And we will have such insufficient iterations more, lots of communication, lots of PRs that will appear will cause changes in bookkeeping, management, changes in programs, new costs that these companies have and for changes in accounts, contributions, so must you have a programmer who will change your program, must come your accounting, create some new costs for them and he asks you for what? What's that worth? When someone says it's worth a billion, then we have to look at what it's worth per business subject, how much per average is it per business entity, how much per employee? How much on average is one citizen? Where we unfortunately see the headlines of the big, bordan, it's not 400 kuna, or 40 kuna, it might be 30 kuna before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95092	Thank you. I'd like to conclude a debate on these points, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 and the first item will be the proposal for a law on the accessibility of websites and software solutions for the movement devices of public sector bodies, and then I note that at 12 o'clock there will be a vote on the points discussed. Have a good night. Session interrupted at 22.28 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-27-0.u95093	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on profit tax, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 433, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit 2 is hereby adopted. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 88 are for, 4 abstentions and 21 votes against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
