ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65931	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HNS Club to discuss the position of women in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65932	Thank you. Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65933	Thank you. I'm looking for a break on this subject of the Archive Act today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65934	You're looking for a break on this subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65935	On this subject, yes, five minutes, there will be a topic, not a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65936	Dude, what's the matter? Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65937	Dear President, the MOST Club of Independent Lists is looking for a break in the current political situation in the country, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65938	Here you go, Mr. Vesligai, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65939	I'm looking for a break to talk about the proposal for a law on the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65940	You got it. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65941	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and MOST Representatives Club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the situation in Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65942	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65943	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65944	Okay. Comrade Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65945	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, I'm looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65946	Okay. That's it, we have seven requests for a break. We'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We're going back to work. The first is the respected Maria Puh on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65948	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to look back at the disturbing statements that can be heard in public space and media spaces these days. Now I'm going to read you a few quotes and a few statements that could be heard and seen in a few weeks or two. If Porec had the right policy, he wouldn't ask politics, he wouldn't ask women what they think of something, he'd make sure all women work, raise healthy children, who are examples of the long, to watch their husbands like one marriage. Therefore, when violence against women and families will not end in a loving way, acting freely according to principles and norms, healthy, human, and Christian ethics, then it will have to be stopped by force. fear of persecution and criminal sanctions. Therefore, when violence against women and families will not end with a loving end, acting freely according to the principles and norms of healthy, human, and Christian ethics, then they will have to stop by force. fear of persecution and criminal sanctions. Is this a step forward in improving human nature or a step back? In the world of Christian ethics, it is a one-off step back, for a Christian did not receive the spirit of slavery to fear, but rather the spirit of adoption, in order to live freely and happily and act with the power of the gifted freedom of the child of God. Women for the first part of the cycle when estrogen is dominant, better moods, in progesterone are a little quieter, the few days before menstruation, when they're caught in PMS by a little testosterone, then, are that I'm not getting into it now, hormones affect the mood and feelings. These scandalous statements can be heard in public space in recent days, and I am terribly concerned, suggest that certain stakeholders and individuals, want to discredit women and remove them from public space, want to return us back to the patriarchate, put us in houses and kitchens, show us incompetent, for politics, for work or for some responsible functions. For years, women have fought for the right to vote, to be seen and heard. It seems to me that today more than ever before, it's hard to be a woman. There's a cartoon in my life, which I honestly believed I'd never say in public space, but, looking at all these inscriptions and looking at all these statements, I think I have to. I think on my own example, I try to raise awareness of girls, girls, and women, who are convinced that they are less valuable, because he told them that and that's what their father, boyfriend, husband or partner told them. My boyfriend asked me to leave politics and political engagement, he told me that all my hard work, all my work, it makes no sense and that it would never be anything from me. He asked me to move to his place, to get away from the work I was doing, to find a normal job, to give birth to a child, to dedicate myself to a family and to him, but then I didn't trust him, I trusted myself. I trusted myself, and that's why I'm here today. I believe I'm worth more and I believe I can do more than he thought. So today I want to tell all women, believe in yourself, you're no less valuable than those who want to corner you. However, I'd like to order, to anyone who discredits women in public space and their rights, you won't succeed. I won't let you poison public space by demeaning women. I call upon all of you and MPs and MPs, let us be unique and let us not let women be our hostages to ideological divisions and political bickering. And I want all the girls and women to have the courage to know that they're following their path and following their thought and their desire in life as I once did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65949	We are going to another debate, the esteemed Željko Vosovnić on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65950	Dear colleagues, since today's topic is one of the topics on the agenda of opening archives. Opening the archives, here's 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall we're talking about opening the archives. This was tried by all other post-Communist countries except the Republic of Croatia. Here, Poland, Germany, the Baltic Republic, the Czech Republic, etc. The archives are necessary for the reconstruction and functioning of a country. They're not just historical and cultural heritage, it's one collective memory of a nation, say, and what's going on here. This new law is just erasing, continuing erasure, and collective memory, which has continued since '45. and earlier, it began, burning archives from anti-fascists, when they retreated from Split in '43. Partisans burned down the entire state archive. What bothered them? That's why we've got 5% of the land books taken care of today? Here, comrades, you were doing comrades in the '90s. They burned the documents, burned in the Long War, there, burned their biographies in the Parliament, which they deleted again, and now they all became overnight Democrats, and they were actually members of a party dictatorship, and today they're big Democrats and cosmopolitans. In this, there are 37 organizations and services, which are the legal heirs of the SFRY. Now the Bridge has suggested that the archive be opened by 22.12.'90. And they put it back seven months. Why would they do that? Why is there some key information they might be afraid of? Who handed over the weapons of the territorial defense of JNA. Who are these people? What about the robbery during the transition? What about that estate test board and they're afraid of it, too. Who took possession of the state property, as I said before, from the unions of the sun, from the party, etc. Some have there, some have been... There they arrested, have 10 apartments around Zagreb, and they were perhaps members of the skis, Tito... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's unsolved, here's what else there is, UDBA's accounts, KOS' accounts, to move accounts outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where the money was transferred out, that's how companies were created, the ones that hold some tycoons today. There are orders that the assassinations of Croats outside the country and that. Article 17 of the Declaration and speaks here who will decide what is to be declared. Former UDBA staff in Croatia, the MUP and SOA. It's just a big joke and another smoke screen. Anex D who asks anex D agreement on the international succession to return the archives from Belgrade, no one asks. You could've gone down by now and photographed everything. No one's gone down and we're still living in the historical darkness. Here's some paperwork, here's what it looks like to bring that snitch society that's been here since the '90s. You do, that's what an individual file looked like. This code name was pine. It says here that he was prone to gambling and that he was state-of-the-art. He answered because he believed in that failed South. I showed Mr. Bull an interesting document, an example of this snitch society, where one man sang. He was on the phone until the '90s. Some of them sitting here were on the phone until they were nineties. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. Here's a Croatian patriot singing in Alaj Cauš's hall in Sinj "Arise Bane" etc. and there, not only was he holding the barter a snitch, but others ratted him out and offered him 100 euros, making him sing the old Partisan "Sa Ovcara and Cablara coban, the shepherdess talks". Now, some of them were still singing, some of them are singing behind closed doors today. Here are the code names here in Croatia's current code names. It's my best tree. Tree, what you had to have intellectual abilities to get the code name of a tree. We now have the Constitutional Court Vrbik Degenerik, we have a picture there of a solemn line, he is sitting down degeneric with... And to the comforters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A deer, a bull, a black silver, a bunny. What did the bunny do, etc. That's what I'm curious about. And finally comes a second-degree solution, coming now for Mr. Mustac and Mr. Perkovic. Will they talk? Is she afraid of some head of an axe that might come? But this could have been resolved long ago to ban all these personnel from accessing politics, culture, etc. But no, the lustration was carried out in the opposite direction, they went back and now they're playing great human rights fighters. Why do we even, why do we today, why do we even defend this Oh, well, thank you. [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Glasnović.]] You know what I'm talking about? [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65951	Yes, it is, and you've done something that I won't approve of anymore. You talked about the agenda, then everyone can do it and speak now five minutes before the agenda point and then we don't have to have a agenda point at all. Here is a colleague of Petrov, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65952	My colleagues and fellow MPs, ignorance is not an alibi. If you're going to look formally at court ignorance is not an alibi, but when the current government says she didn't know, then she's also hypocritical because they knew everything. Let's see, let's make a short cut for the last year that all the government didn't know or what the rulings didn't know, and today the entire Croatian public knows absolutely. The government, or finance minister, had not known for a year before the opening of the Agrokor affair that absolutely nothing bad was happening in Agrokor. Interestingly, he worked there all the time, representing but he didn't know. Okay. The Prime Minister had no idea what was going on in Agrokor, what happens to the largest company, with a company that operates with 5,000 suppliers in Croatia alone. The man didn't know. Not only did he not know, but he was trying not to hear. I'd just like to ask the citizens of Croatia to bind the data. After that, when they were literally forced to talk in the government about the Agrokor affair, they ended up working with the MOST accusing us that we wanted to use the repressive apparatus, that they didn't even know about Ivica Todorovic at the time, and precisely because they didn't know the man had got half a year of gratis and lifelong fairies in another country. They didn't know. They didn't know either when they agreed without us, because we found out about the Knighthead Fund from the media when everyone else did. They didn't know the Knighthead Fund had nothing to do with what they thought, but today the question is whether the Knighthead Fund is even in Croatia and whether the Russians are holding Agrokor today. They didn't know that either. Let's watch what they didn't know next? They didn't know about the council's salary. Now there's one thing I don't understand here. The Commissioner in Agrokor is officially called Commissioner or Commissioner of the Government. As far as I know, he's a government commissioner. So now I'm wondering if the same thing you didn't know because you were incompetent, you didn't care what the problem was? Do you know what Mr. Ramljak is doing that you put on or you don't know? Interesting. The councilor's wages were not known. I'd like to make a brief summary of everything that's been going on in Agror. There was a beautiful marriage between politicians and Agrokor until the Most entered the government. Then there was a breakup where we were looking for transparent process management, we were looking for clean bills, we were looking for reading for the Croatian economy and suddenly MOST is no longer a desirable partner. After that happens again marriage out of interest where it is possible to put everything under the rug and then in all of that and investigative commission about Agrokor you managed to shut down just so you didn't know, just so you didn't know. And then today the Prime Minister speaks as his strongest alibi I didn't know. And I'll tell you this, you knew. You knew a lot of things, and what's worse, some things you didn't know, you didn't want to know, you didn't want to know, and you didn't want the Croatian public to know, so you're hiding things, so the Bridge is no longer in the government, and we're glad to see you doing it all, which you don't know, then we're glad not to be part of that project I don't know. But I'll tell you one more thing at the end, when domestic violence happens, the same accomplice in violence is a member of a family who says I don't know and turn my head, I don't know and I don't care. All those who were witnesses, perpetrators and employers should submit an account because such violence against the Croatian economy, taxpayers and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should end. And at this point, I welcome all my colleagues wherever they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65953	Thank you. Let's move on, next debate of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Marko Vezligaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65954	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I have reported for this break to warn you colleagues, but the entire Croatian public about the harmfulness of the new Law on the municipal economy that we were supposed to discuss today, but here I am extremely glad that this was transferred for tomorrow morning because I think the public should be familiar with it. We've already had some controversial situations on the agenda, so Friday we came up with that he's not going to be in the debate this week, and then later there's going to be, and now something's changing again. A little weird. What, though, makes him very important? Of course, through this law, services that are primarily important for our citizens, the maintenance and construction of municipal infrastructure, the management of cemeteries, chimney services, the disposal of garbage, etc., therefore services for which citizens pay. Yes, the municipal company also deals with certain market activities. The local self-government is required under the law of that service and I will say that all those in the local self-government are trying to ensure these services, to be as efficient as possible, to be as effective as possible, and that prices of course for our citizens are as low as possible. Some do so through utility companies, some through concessionaries, the freedom of choice of each head of the representative body of a local self-government unit, and we all support it. However, by new law, this freedom of choice, this right of choice for reasons unknown to me and illogical matters is abolished by one article of the law which states that "a commercial company carries out exclusively entrusted municipal activity and cannot simultaneously carry out another market economic activity". Then what does that mean? Thus, such a decision and the proposed separation of activities within the municipal society in such a way as I said that only one activity can be carried out is firstly extremely discriminatory for companies and is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because the restriction of entrepreneurship freedoms, therefore it is only for the sake of the protection and security of the Republic of Croatia, nature, the human environment and human health. This separation is done in this bill or direct giving the championship to the private sector on the ground where it competes with the public sector in an equal competition or leads us towards the creation of new companies, which means an increase in red tape. We'll need more directors, more deputy directors, more professional services, more board members. And what will the citizens get from these new provisions? Well, they'll get a higher price for utility services, and someone needs to pay for it, and to put it in a word that's very popular in the media space, and I recently read somewhere that they've declared it the Croatian word of the year, they've arrested it. So I call on all parliamentary representatives, and especially my fellow mayors and commissioners to remove this disputed provision in the interests of the citizens because if they adopt, we really do one grotesque of the entire system of municipal companies and there will be tens, maybe hundreds of new companies, and we will have one for funeral activities, and we will have one company that will deal with the renting of machines, let's say, daughter companies, so we will have one that will manage some public good, say, quarrys, etc. Because for each of these activities that I have said, once again, we need a special company. So now we either privatize everything, but then why are we even arguing that anything is public? For the end, I will say really whatever lobby, whatever interest group put this into the law is too much, it is too special for smaller, but also medium size cities because we are not all Zagreb and we have Holding than because of rationality and sound logic we have more activity in the municipal business and market business because the revenues from these market activities sometimes we offer a more favourable price of municipal services for our citizens. Nobody gets dividends there, nobody gets any fees there. It goes into the budget, and we are now going to call it the restructuring of a sector that employs thousands of people, some of whom, or many of them, could be out of a job if adopted. The final result, once again, is the higher price of service for our citizens, but very possible and weaker service. I believe he'll still be wise enough to stop this scenario because it's not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65955	Thank you. You did exactly what your colleague Glasnović did, so you're talking about the law we're going to discuss. I ask my colleagues not to do this, it is now a new practice, so we have a debate about a certain law, and during that debate we will talk about the law then, not now in the breaks. The fifth is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65956	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues took this break to discuss the conflict of interest of Mr Ramljak in the context of his former firm Texo, Agrokor and AlixPartners. Since the entry of the Emergency Administration Act, so somewhere since April, former firm Mr. Ramljak Texo has become one of the consultants of Agrokor. On these jobs sometimes a small company, media with only 2 employees who had some small salaries suddenly fell into their honey so that they get 242,000 kuna per month and so far almost 10 million kunas have been paid since April last year. And imagine now the situation in which Mr. Ramljak found himself. He used to work at the former firm, the government put him as a commissioner, and now he says he's through AlixPartners but irrelevantly, it's certainly clear who he's been consulting has given a large amount of money to his former firm. Another way to get the money out. AlixPartners if it's really such a good company, then why did it bring in the man who made it possible for them to have a conflict of interest? When it comes to conflict of interest, there is this famous year, a year between public duty and some private business. There's still no picture of Mr. Ramljak on Texo's pages, and only a few days have passed since he was an employee of the company until he became Commissioner. No year apart, nothing. You work at your firm today, you're a commissioner tomorrow, you're on public duty, and then you assign jobs to your former firm. A conflict of interest that screams to the sky. I'd just ask if anyone even checked on Mr. Ramljak? Whether there was another candidate for the Commissioner, perhaps or being automated, we already know that in advance Ramljak will be the Commissioner and all the jobs will be and all the responsibility will be given to him. Texo menagment is currently headed by Mr Matic, another of the people who are in this story, Mr Stricevic, who is otherwise charged with withdrawing money from TLM, all of these people are the common denominator of Mr Borislav Škegro. To all of this, Minister Dalic, means the proposal because Mr Ramljak came where he is, says she is not addressed, the Prime Minister here recently says that he does not know what it is, I don't believe a word of it, they knew very well what it was doing and who it was doing, in fact all this as I was saying now was prepared, they knew who would get the Commissioner's place and who would get these jobs, they knew about the roll-up credit, it was one of those same lines of people, ideas and goals whose common denominator and teacher Mr. Skegro. Mr. Ramljak, what is he? Is he the deputy, is he the official, is he the official? By what law can we or cannot verify him? The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Article 3(2) states that persons whom the Parliament, the Government and the President appoints to be subject to review of conflicts of interest, therefore I request from this place that the Committee for Conflict of Interest deal with Mr Ramljak. But keep an eye on the coincidences now, as you have unmounted the Agrokor committee, because if you hadn't, we'd have known these things long ago, so are the problems for the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. It is clear why this is so, because the commission must discuss your ministers Dalic and Maric, however, if there is no course it cannot be held. And then of course he couldn't deal with Ramljak. So the conflict of interest is obvious, the people who are doing this can't even hide their affairs anymore, everything comes to the surface and it's so embarrassing actually that there's that I'm asking for the government's resignation. I'm asking for the government's resignation, I've been looking for a lot of roads for this sort of thing, but most of them are who they are. There's a shame for the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65957	Next up is the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65958	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the fact is that the current political situation here in the assembly starts every morning with a theme about Agrokor, what's going on in the media, last day, and then we're still discussing it here. And sometimes it's hard to take away the impression that there are those who don't want to understand deliberately to catch some political points in the people by clouding the real state and trying to create a perception that's negative in the eyes of people or citizens, those who work in that system in relation to what's going on and what's been going on and what's been going on in the past 10 months. When it started, no one knew how it would end, there were predictions, like this or like that, but the government reacted as it could, with the Law on extraordinary management in trading societies of systemic importance, more famous lex Agrokora, which she wanted to protect the process of restructuring and reaching a settlement in a situation that was certainly not simple. We saw a few months later the level of debts accumulated in the concert in 20 years of business. And today we have one story, one little detail in that big picture that should be brought down in relation to what's the main goal, which is that in the next two months, a settlement happens and then a restructuring, if not in 2 months, then another 3, to achieve the set goal. And I said last week that politicians went into a space where they wanted to arbitration in a place where people who do business, who have certain business activities, and we listen to what we needed to know today and what we didn't need to know. The aim of this government is to end this process as imagined, by settlement, restructuring, job conservation, continuation of production, and that this process takes and lasts for the benefit of all particularly employees and, of course, businesses themselves. As for the compensation to the advisors, I trust the prime minister when he says he didn't know it, but whether it's good or not, that's what the public will judge. Not giving the Prime Minister a chance to analyze the situation if you don't know it and then bring your judgment is a story we hear every day. I think we're going to know the attitude very quickly and we should let what we don't know, find out in that time that's ahead of us, because I think none of us, until it came out, probably didn't know it either, but now we all know something or we were all in on it. Now, when we see that last statement, on Friday, the former president of the Croatian Parliament, who accused all parliamentary deputies of not coming to work at 8:00, and he himself doesn't want to do his job, for which we elected him here, the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, to sit here, change the president, run a session, to avoid it, because you're crazy, that's why you don't want to. Your colleagues gave you a chance. Why don't you want to run a session? Why are you telling people not to come to work and you're never here or sometimes we see you here, right? In the morning, then in the afternoon, eventually one more time and he's gone. Is that how we run the politics? The accusations of their colleagues, that they were not doing their job properly, avoiding that part of their moral, which was very clearly out, I recently read it. As someone could be punished, someone reported it to him, I don't know, seven members of the household, and it turns out he's got five, paid a man a fine, instead of the one who reported it. Is that moral? At least apologize to that man. That flyer you leave for everyone here in the Parliament, that high morale bar, you have to apply it to yourself. Let's not forget the affairs, the godfathers and everything else we've had in the past 10 months and over, for a year and a half. So you have to learn to deal with these things. They're not your positions, just like you want to, as one media project, introduce them out. Respect your colleagues and worry about what you did while you were in that government. And you voted for Lex Agrokor. And you said it was a good thing. So let's let him end up like a law that has a time limit. So then we'll take the bills and determine what worked or didn't work, but let's not do it in advance. Don't accuse others of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65959	Thank you. We're going to the last debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected Anka Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65960	... My colleagues, growing up is usually a very long and hard process. [[Specially enabled.]] I'll just wait for the HDZ and Most colleagues to agree, obviously it's on the trail of some third coalition, so make a deal, but then I can. Thank you. So I'll pick up where I left off. Growing up is a very difficult and difficult process and growing up which is a difficult and difficult process, we say. One of the things I always talked about and thought I'd never do it again, which is when my mom used to say it, I told you. Now, I'm getting more and more often, from this pay phone, and otherwise in my life, I've been using it to tell you, and it's not really my best time, so I'm going to use it in relation to the current Agrokor political situation. I'm from this pay phone, when I was talking about Agrokor, I said there are two Agrokors. That there is an Agrokor Ivica Todorovic, who went to London and tells us from London that he never had more than 20,000 kuna in his life, so you don't have to be very wise, and from what you live in London today, if you've never had more than 20,000 kuna. And the other Agrokor is Agrokor Mr. Ante Ramljak. The first Agrokor, we know, or we'll know more how it came about based on related capitalism, on the fact that everyone was helping, and we're all saying it, and there's no secrets there. The second Agrokor, Agrokor Ante Ramljak, was created on the basis of lex Agrokor and Mr Ante Ramljak is the Government's Commissioner. This government has tied its future to that law. He tied his future to Mr. Ante Ramljak. And if you're valid for your future, if you tie up everything you're going to talk about, then there are some things you need to know. Some things you need to be familiar with and some things you need to communicate clearly. The elemental courtesy, is to say, who did, who wrote lex Agrokor and I don't see at all what the problem is, the more Mr. Skegro said, I know who wrote the law, so half the problem was solved and I don't see any reason why, maybe that part of the thing would be clearer to us. The elemental courtesy of the government's commissioner to say clearly, my salary is so big, I'm doing a serious job, I have 102 advisors, because really, it's a significant and important project. It is not on the Croatian market, because there are very few, I will pay so many. And today, I don't know which time, this pay phone, would be used for the Agrokor theme. The topic of Agrokora is extremely important for this country, extremely important for our citizens and is absolutely the responsibility of the government and the responsibility of the diameter for the work of the Government Commissioner. For his work, for the work of his counselors. And I suppose that after Strasbourg and after its obvious, perhaps the European Mr. Plenkovic hears something in Europe too, so he will come from Europe and maybe he will say something, as he thinks about Mr. Ramljak's work, about the advisers, who are indeed, this time and we are discussing it in public space. The fact is, these advisors at this point, they're paying for those who are at this point and the owners of Agrokor, which are believers. The fact that in that part he pays the state. But, as I started, that's how I'm gonna end up. The countless times from this pay phone, when we talked about Agrokor, we said that at the end of the day, the poor government commissioner, the bad advisers, who will advise, will carry the budget of the Republic of Croatia and bear those who are full of the budget of the Republic of Croatia, who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So I use this pay phone to ask the prime minister to assume that, as in one case, they were working day and night and early morning hours, that they had studied the documentation and that the prime minister finally told us what he was thinking, what the government's position was in relation to the work of the government's commissioner, that if the government had to stand behind that work, they would stand behind that advisor because then the Minister of Finance will, when someone asks him, be simpler to say it. So on your way back from Brussels, on your way back from Strasbourg, Mr Plenkovic, let us hear your voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u65961	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate after the break and we move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66021	I see that the hand is raised by the esteemed representative Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66022	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to request a ten-minute break on behalf of the HNS Club to discuss the actualities of the abolition of 72 bus transport lines in the area of Slavonia and Baranja or Osijek-Baranja County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66023	Thank you. Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66024	Your Honor, Vice President. On behalf of the bridge club of independent lists, I'd like to request a break on the same subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66025	Thank you. Anyone else? If I don't see you at 13.33. It's 1:00.23.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66026	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:33 A.M.]] A colleague named Stjepan Curaj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66027	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I've been looking for this break to talk about the current topic since Monday that appeared in the media, but what's most important, which unfortunately in a bad way, made our residents of Slavonia and Baranja particularly happy and Osijek-Baranja County. Namely, a private car carrier's decision abolished 72 bus lines that came into effect since 5 February. Now, of course, they have their reasons and that the reasons are economic viability, and I'm not going to get into it. What I want to point out here from above is that it is the same as one of the indicators at which the level is also in Slavonia and Baranja. Already all statistical indicators, when we talk about average salaries, about the number of employees do not benefit us, so that even equal jobs can be paid up to 50 and more percent less than in Zagreb. I am not talking about Europe, where Europe is for us, is for us Zagreb Europe. The purchasing power is far less, and of course we're looking for one of the reasons why people are leaving is because they may not even have a job but they're going for a bigger salary. Is if in Slavonia and Baranja we are working for 500 euros, in Zagreb for 1000, and they get out for 1500 euros, of course, and then unfortunately, people are leaving us. This is just one reaction that I must say this way that the activity of the mayor of Osijek-Baranja Ivan Anusic has been temporarily removed and thus I commend it, but not permanently and nothing has been solved. 72 lines, these are a series of places that connect our students, our employees, what we have left in the cities of Slavonia and the municipalities. The network, we witnessed three, four years ago, five of us were removed from the national concessionaire or national HZ carrier, so we no longer have a fast train from Osijek to Zagreb on the principles of rentability which absolutely, people who do this responsible work have to respect. But our task is, and this way, I want to draw attention to this burning topic not only of breaking the lines, it's only a consequence but that we really have to make policies that will recognise the need for such ends, which will work out their own if you want tax havens, which will stimulate immigration. And it's not something that's started in the last five months or two years but it's been going on for a long time. Of course, the indicators of a certain economic level at the state level support us, but these people, citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, feel very little. We are last in line, and Croatia will not move forward as long as the weakest link is Slavonia and Baranja. Only when Slavonia and Baranja are in charge will Croatia take a big step forward. I commend once again that this unfortunate situation has been temporarily removed, but that is not the solution. And I appeal to both the government and all those responsible and the Ministry of Transport to find a solution so that all the possibilities that the law allows continue to remain on those lines and even return to those railways. Of course, there should be a series of preconditions both from modernisation and everything that means you can have one normal attractive and market-attractive railway so we can talk about bus lines, but it's a job for all of us. And this way I want to repeat once again that the systematic one-by-one ceasefire will not solve the problem or that we need to see that the problems are being solved systematically, and the fire extinguishing where it comes from will not solve it, that it is commendable that it has now been temporarily removed from information that the mayor has succeeded in meeting with them, but of course I say it is temporary because it is a really big thing. People don't have a way to get to work, from work, so they can't all afford two, three cars per family, none. This is the reality in which we live there, the wages are so great that the merchant who works in the same bakery chain in Osijek has 30.40% less salary than in that bakery in Pula. Why? Because the price of this product is in Osijek 7 kuna, and in Pula 11, 12 is there a purchasing power that can afford it. And that's why people are leaving us, and that's what we all need to make sure that things change systematically and think not about how problems come to us, but in advance and work on it. I say it's done a lot and that this new tax... certainly will make it possible even more, but it should persist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66028	Thank you. The next one is counterpart Tomislav Panenic in front of the Most Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66029	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, I don't see MPs here. Here's the topic she opened, here's my colleague Curaj before me talking about it, maybe the Croatian public is new, but we who primarily live in rural areas have already become a daily one. It may be a day to lift 72 lines of shock, but we've been cut off not 72 lines but a lot more lines over all these years. Whoever wants to make sure needs to come to any rural municipality in Vukovar-Srijem County and will make sure that you can... drive to the first city centre only with buses that are subsidized i.e. only practically those who are related to school children. All those other things are being lifted, gone. And this problem of going to work, going to a doctor, going to any service that is provided is practically difficult, impossible and no longer provides a standard of life. But, in order not to say, the bus lines are being cut. The same to us under the auspices of this Ministry of Transport, abolishing and postal offices slowly, disappearing our schools, and what we have to say is not only a problem that is isolated, but it's a general problem, and if you follow in the last few years, problem, transportation, public transport, it's certainly one of the key problems to deal with, and it's not just a solution to temporarily do something, because maybe a line will come back, but one smaller number will definitely be abolished, and then it will increase, and then it will disappear. And this is a shock when he says 72, but trust me, in a few years, virtually all traffic will be left unsubsidized. It is necessary to look for reasons, to seek perhaps within the limit of competition that the government there, should seek perhaps in the new models that will be established, to bring the service closer to the citizens, not that citizens without public transport must seek services, somewhere that is not available to them. We recently had a chance, here, to read and disdain, not recently, but in the last few days, employees in schools, who have to travel to their jobs, and public transportation does not allow them, but nevertheless, the ministry limits their ability to pay, but says, drive with those you have. But here's one thing the Ministry of Education says, in the end, we get to the Ministry of Transport, which is in agreement with the abolitions, not only of this, but of the previous ones, and I think it shows the problem that there is no consensus in the government, and that this problem is solved. Because this certainly is not a problem that only one mayor needs to solve, because this means that he will raise money from the county budget to finance something in the meantime. Either from some municipalities or the city will have to be financed further, but this means reducing some other investments that are important to people. This problem of migration, people from rural areas and all of these consequences that we have, it's not safe to say, the key is not influence, some local or regional self-government, but also primarily, the state that didn't recognize the problems that were created, it didn't answer. And now, we are witnessing that despite GDP growth, GDP rates are growing, despite budget surpluses, of which money, of which is of excess, we cannot expect, that something will spill over towards rural budgets, in which there is certainly no surplus and we expect in these areas, here in Osijek Baranja County and all other counties, which are so threatened, that this surplus is being overrun. Because it's unrealistic to expect that we should all look forward to getting airplanes that we're not going to travel with, and that millions of people are not even thinking about how to reroute exactly the needs that people have in the moment. It seems to me sometimes that we have forgotten our commitment, which is to organise people's lives, to organise the rest of the people there, to organise a possible return, to organise economic activities, and all of this remains an upgrade, which can certainly wait for better times, because this time has become too difficult and every day we will listen to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u66030	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69532	First point – Proposal for a law on archive material and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 219. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now like to ask the Minister of Culture, the Honorable Nina Obulen Koržinek, to give an additional explanation of this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69533	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. 20 years after the adoption of the Law on Archival Materials and Archives, and on the basis of last year's plan of normative activities, the Ministry of Culture started a procedure for the creation of a new law in early 2017 with the aim of modernising archival activity and service, in line with the needs of both the creators and users of the archive material. The ministry then announced by adopting a new law in the context of the announcement of the adoption of a package of the Law on Archives, Librarys and Museums, and what is particularly important is the launch of a national project for the digitisation of cultural heritage. Since the beginning, the public has been informed of all steps, since the appointment of the expert commission, the monitoring on the website of the Ministry of Culture and the work of the commission, public debate has been carried out, and after that there have been numerous contacts with the media related to the most important points of this law. Let me briefly outline the basic areas where the most important changes are expected in the new law on archival materials and archives. First, the archive is defined as a legal person. Therefore, the conduct of an archive activity is no longer subject to legal form that it must be established so far, and the possibility of establishing an archive in the composition as a legal person, i.e. a founding unit, is introduced. There's a whole series of innovations in the field of definitions. I might just point out a replacement of the current concept of registration material. The concept of documentary material is introduced, which is an internationally accepted term. One of the key objectives of this law is to train archives to work in digital society and in this part of the law actually brings the most important newspapers. The technology of the creation of materials has changed, and in recent years, public authorities have largely digitised their business and services, and are creating original electronic material in various information systems and forms, which has greatly accelerated and simplified the re-use of information. This new bill allows for the transformation from classical to digital archive, and unlike the applicable law, it defines the creation, surrender and storage of archive material in electronic form. The bill creates assumptions for the acquisition of digital material and digitisation of archive services, and this is actually a key paper compared to the outdated, valid law on archive material and archives. The new law, followed by sublegal acts, will define precise conditions for the conversion of documentary material into another form in a way that will ensure the integrity of the original material, the implementation of the conversion of materials in a way that provides a reasonable guarantee that unauthorized and undocumented addition, alteration or removal of the properties of the material, protection of copyright in the process, documenting the procedure for the purpose of ensuring and verifying the correctness of the conversion. This is really going to be a big step. A new provision is also introduced that the converted archive material is equally valuable to the original if the conversion is carried out in accordance with the law which will be a major step in the management of the documentation. This solution in one part will reduce the problem of space, of course in future times for the installation of newly created material, which today is one of the important problems burdening the activity of public archives. These provisions are important for both the public service and the economy because they will allow for cheaper and more rational storage of documentation that is produced in digital form. It is precisely a lack of space that is the main reason why archives have not taken on a relatively large amount of material that has expired the download deadline into the archive, so that the process of converting materials into digital form will speed up the download of materials into the archive, reduce the need for spatial capacity, and ensure more availability of materials. I must point out here that there are archives, public archives in the Republic of Croatia, for example in Dubrovnik or Pazin, which for decades do not collect material according to their legal obligation, because they simply do not have the opportunity to do so. The mandatory deposit of audiovisual works is also arranged in such a way that producers are obliged to hand over the Croatian State Archives in the first year of displaying the distribution copy of the works, but the obligation for audiovisual works importers is lifted. They must deliver only a list of works and the delivery of advertising material. The law is fully in line with the new Croatian and European regulations and, in particular, the Law on the right to access information and the Data Protection Act, and this is because these regulations were adopted after '97. There has often been a conflict with the current law on archive materials and archives, and the law is fully in line with relevant European directives and regulations. As with the current law and the proposal for a new law, it provides for anonymity. One of the key objectives of this new law is to improve the availability and use of archive material in the archive and the creator of archive material. And here I would point out that this proposal liberalises the availability of archive material. So public archive material will now be available from its creation, if the law is not different. In other words, a 30-year no-availability deadline has been abolished and, in accordance with the right to access information, the material is immediately available to the creator and before the transfer to the archive. This is indeed one of the key newspapers, which means that all the material that was created after 1990 will be significantly more accessible today than the current law. Here in the first row we go towards users of materials in public archives and there is an advantage given to lists of materials already before only the material is submitted to the archive. It is also proposed in the new law that public document and archive material be made available from creation, of course, unless otherwise established under that or other law, since the restrictions on availability are governed by other laws, classifications of data, etc. The provisions on the transfer of material lists to archives and the introduction of availability from the moment the materials are created ensure that public authorities allow archives and users to accurately locate and gain insight into the necessary material still owned by the public authorities, and therefore, due to the need for business, allowing users to access the material at the same time without filling in such reduced storage facilities of public archives. A few more points that are regulated with regard to availability and use, therefore the terms of use of materials in archives are regulated, and we prescribe that no fees are charged for making copies of the archive material when the copies are required in procedures exempt from payment of administrative and other fees, then the procedure for granting access and reuse of the materials is arranged, the register of the owner or owner of the private archive material which has special significance for history, science and culture. The law also regulates exports, either outside the EU or within the EU from the Republic of Croatia of private archive material that can be carried out or carried out only with the consent of the Minister of Culture. And in terms of private archive material, state archives have the right to buy first, which is also very important in order to protect valuable heritage. The status of archives of religious communities subject to the provisions of the laws governing private archival material is regulated, so that religious communities can conclude an agreement with state archives to ensure the care of their material. As regards public archive material containing classified and other classified information, this material is available at the end of the 40-year period with the declassification procedure, unless otherwise specified by the other law. So here we also shortened the period of 10 years compared to the current law. The draft law, in our opinion, deals with the issue of availability of archive material in the period 1945 to 1990, on the trail of the solution voted in the Assembly eight months ago during the debate on changes and additions to the previous law. Therefore, data in public archive material produced by 30 May 1990 are available without restrictions other than protected personal data, and are not considered to be data created in the performance of official duties and jobs, the influence and roles of persons acting as public officials and members and co-workers of the security service of the non-democracy regime in the period of '45. Until the '90s. Given the nature of the archive material and its importance in the cultural and historical context of Croatian heritage, it is necessary to allow access to as much material as possible, especially that of exceptional historical importance. Therefore, a provision is introduced to remove the restrictions on the availability of materials produced by 30 May 1990, in particular with regard to materials of particular importance to strengthen awareness of totalitarian and not democratic regimes in the past and the memory culture of their victims. Facing historical events and practices in non-democracy regimes requires professional, professional and objective, which is, we will all agree, only with the possible insight into all relevant documentation that testifies this. The 30th of May 1990 election is considered important since the Croatian Parliament was established on that day and the first meeting was held with representatives elected in the first democratic and multilateral elections in the Republic of Croatia. On 30 May 1990, it marked a break with the regime so far, the establishment of a new system and a turning point in the history of a modern and independent Republic of Croatia. Finally, a whole series of provisions relating to the improvement of public archival services are passed in the law. The law adopts a newspaper in the organisation of the service, including the establishment of an archive in the form of another legal person, the conditions for the appointment of a director who will be elected by the basis of the proposed work programme with at least three years of work in the archive or at least five years of work and a professional examination from the archival profession have been amended. There will also be an obligation to set up a board of directors if the archives have more than 20 employees who will have 5 members, it is extremely important to better monitor the operation of the archives. The structure and way of selecting members of the Croatian Archive Council will be changed and will be carried out on the basis of a public call to archives, professional associations and other persons to submit their proposals. What is particularly important and we must stress this, given that the law will regulate the entire system of protection, processing and use of documentary and archive materials, the obligations of the creators and owners of documentary and archive material, the system of the archives of the Republic of Croatia and the public archive service and the competence and activities of the archives in order to carry out all these provisions successfully, a provision has been introduced into the law that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, within one year of the adoption of the new law and, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, develop the National Plan for the Development of Archival Activity. Such a plan will allow long-term planning of the development of archival activity, offer solutions to spatial problems, reorganise human potential, taking into account all needs for professionals outside of archival activity and the establishment of digital archives. I must say that we have already largely prepared the basic input parameters for the development of this national plan, the spatial capacity of the archives of current levels of material fill and we will be able to provide a precise projection where and to what extent we will have to invest. Finally, we must stress that the adoption of this law will require the making of new implementing rules, the 4 regulations will be adopted within 3 months and the most extensive, most complex and the one that brings in fact the key steps, the one that will regulate the management of documentary material outside the archives, so that conversion into digital form, excretion and transfer of documentary material, and the way in which the professional competence to carry out operations in the management of documentary materials will be carried out within 12 months of the adoption of this law. Finally, I would like to point out that we must always bear in mind that archives contribute to the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, ensure the availability of information on the work of public services and provide assistance to public services in the processing, evaluation and management of documentation in order to preserve it and ensure that users have as easy access as possible. The main tasks of the archive are the regular acquisition of new materials created by the work of state bodies and other public services, as well as protection, processing, availability assurance and promotion of the use of archive materials. I believe that after the adoption of the law through the application of legal provisions and after the adoption of the national plan, the work of existing state archives as well as the public archival system will be improved, the public document and archive material management has been alerted, a comprehensive process of digitisation of the archives will be launched, conditions for the provision of storage space and equipment for archives, the establishment of new archives and the protection of private archive material that is of paramount importance for the Republic of Croatia. This bill was made in cooperation with archivists and other experts using archive material and in consultation with numerous resolutions. Today, we will listen carefully to the debate, and I am sure that we will receive useful suggestions in this Viskom home so that we can prepare the law for another reading as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69534	I thank the minister. We've got six replicas, the first one's next, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69535	Thank you very much. My fellow Minister, what comes into the eyes here and unfortunately, since we are dealing with these topics in Croatia with a lot of energy and ferocity, I agree with the need to open everything, let it all be seen, there is nothing to be afraid of. It is clear that only individuals in Croatia do not respond, but they also create a burden for us. What I wanted to ask is that compared to the previous one, it is one of the proposals that have been made in the Croatian public that changed the period since they opened. So six months you've been exempt from the Christmas Constitution now until May of '90. A year. There's a question about who he's protecting now, and why? What's this about? And secondly, which is why and whether it's going to stay in the second proposal, so now we have two readings, and in the second reading, which is why if it's already available before the '90s. All of which, then, were left with the possibility that some individuals would put a ban on opening certain files. We know that a colleague from HDZ did it. So, in fact, things can happen that don't find out. So we in the SDP don't have any problem with opening everything up, having everything discussed, saying, we don't want to worry about it, we don't think it's something useful for Croatia right now, we should turn to the future, but let's be honest, our colleagues are in HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69536	Minister, answer the line, or you'll be back later?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69537	I don't think there's any need to answer every line but it's about the Personal Data Protection Act, the law is as I've said fully harmonised and you can easily check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69538	Second replica, respected colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69539	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, while listening carefully to your presentation and the interpretation of the adoption of this law, I am particularly pleased that in this working group, when the law was passed, there were a lot of archivists working on this field and in fact the law was passed because of the archives and archival buildings themselves, and that is why my replica goes in this direction. In fact, in certain bodies, public authorities, I will specifically say, an example from practice, although much of the archive will be digitized, i.e. microfiled, will certainly be more accessible. He requires much less space and much less people. I want to warn you of a very important fact. For example HZMO, it must keep your documentary structure in its original form permanently. Which is why we asked why, even though it's digitized and microfiltrated, the reason is next. Therefore, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code, in any proceedings, as evidence material, is not recognised as a digital or microfilmated excerpt, but must be in the original form. I think since this first reading, and you said that the most important rule to be passed within 90 days of the adoption of this law, because of the public of all those who follow, I think that this should be seriously discussed and seen that this is not in coalition with other laws, i.e., that, as in practice, such digital or microfilmated evidence is recognised in court as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69540	Let's move on. 3 replicas, dear colleague Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69541	Dear Ministers, colleagues, like this, annex... Agreement on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The former state, signed, was ratified in the 2004 Assembly in 2004. By my knowledge of the representatives of this, the bodies in Croatia, represented in Croatia, Serbia, others, these, and other countries, formed after Yugoslavia, the Croats met, I think, for the last time, with their Serbian colleagues in 2012, as long as I don't know, for 8 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What about the return of the archives from Belgrade... The deal, the sea, is talked about moving from the place of origin, is Croatia, what has it done since then? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Second, what about the documents, necessary for the management of the territory. There are also documents dealing with border issues. The documents, the federal bodies, created, this is a key date, which occurred until 30.6.91. Federal bodies of SFRY. That's the paperwork. She's not here in Croatia. And the border was moved back, as Mr. Maras said here, until May of '90. What about that memory hole? Secondly, the NDH material, the film cinema, up there, we used to melt those films of 1,000 films, a meter of film there, to make under five in Borov, up there, that's Croatian heritage, that's all that documentary. You have 700 more collections and funds that are down there, never brought back, you could go on like this by midnight. What's done? Article 1 of the Agreement speaks, Annex D speaks of free and uninterrupted access to all archives. What are we... Nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I could've come down and photocopied. What has the Croatian government done so far? Nothing. Because it's not in their best interests. Because Croatia to date, unfortunately, government and former personnel from... And left, right wing of UDBA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'll finish with that, here. It's a legal question, primarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69542	Thank you. Let's move on, four replicas, dear colleague Glavasevic. ... You're giving up on the replica? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we'll go to our five respected fellow Voter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69543	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I agree with you in part of the argument that this was, if these were certain provisions of this law, necessary to modernise it, to comply with some other regulations, which have changed in the meantime, in the end, with European practice. However, it remains unclear, in fact, the question, which is why you cut the deadline by 7 months, as far as public availability is concerned, certain materials. And I don't really know if it's appropriate or not to ask a question, who the HDZ really wants to deal with or who it wants to protect through these amendments to the law. And one question, to you in the media, to some media, has actually appeared the thesis, that although this law is presented in a way that it will open archives and archives that will actually happen the other way around, so I'm wondering, you know, what media it is, and your secretary of state has come up with a lot on this issue, but I'm also interested in your opinion on this issue. If it is not correct, can you explain to us what the law guarantees, opening, and not closing?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69544	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69545	I'll do the same thing I said in the opening statement, so we'll do it as many times as we need. First of all, it's hard to answer, when you say, some media, some think, they insinuate. You need to take, read the law, see the deadlines of availability, see the provisions of the law, professionally analyze it, and I invite you, invite all parliamentary representatives and all clubs to make it, and then you will see that it is an archive, material, that, the law in which the material, the archive material makes it significant in relation to the provisions of the law as it has, which has been in force so far. As for the 30 May deadline, I will repeat it, I said in the opening, May 30th, the turning point in the Croatian state, which was until May 29th, belongs to one regime and one time, May 30th, the first Croatian Democratic Parliament, elected in democratic elections, is multi-party. Through public debate, we listened to the comments of numerous historians and in the first reading, suggested the date of May 30, convinced that this was the actual moment of the turning point in which Croatia from a totalitarian society went into a democratic society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69546	We're going to the sixth last line, dear colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69547	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you spoke of archival material, and I'm going to mention something that you may not have touched. The President's intrusion: You can only use the microphone, you can hear very little./... Yes, I did. I don't know why you can't hear it, so I'll be a little louder. Archive material is located in some unacceptable spaces. The fact that these are areas of importance for the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government as cultural, historical or architecturally important building. My question is whether some space is being built new for archival material that would be more adequate and free of such important space and buildings that are important for both the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units. That's one particular question, so I'd like to ask a concrete answer if something like that is planned in the future? And the other would be related to one finding, and I'll repeat it on behalf of the SDP. We've repeated many, many times, and we must clearly repeat a hundred times that we don't mind opening the archives completely. I repeat that because some colleagues here keep saying that we are against opening archives. We're not against opening archives, that's what we're for. But I would ask why someone decided to open the archive until 30.5.1990? It's the same thing that we don't agree with. If we open the archives, let it all open. But it's obviously in someone's interest not to see everything and not to read everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69548	Here's your answer one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69549	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I also said in the opening explanation that the archives in Croatia have serious spatial problems. That's not the problem that came from yesterday to today. It's a problem that's been following us for decades. We have very detailed analyses that show how many long meters at this point cannot be collected due to inadequate conditions. We recently opened a new archive in Vukovar, so in that part of Croatia, the problem was largely removed. By the end of this year, we will be opening a new archive building in Dubrovnik, so we will solve the problem. After that is followed by Pazin, or Istrian County, then Slavonski Brod and the whole area which is also a serious problem. At this moment we are investing in the archive building in Varazdin, so we are solving partly and northwestern Croatia, and the most important investment will be to continue investment in the premises of the Croatian State Archives in Kerestinco. As regards the opening of the archive and the date of 30 May, I cannot but repeat what I have already said in order to fully open the archive material from that area and enable researchers to see the data on everything that happened during the totalitarian regime, this Parliament decided eight months ago in the provisions that you adopted and we actually followed this text in this bill with minimal nomotechnical finishing. And the decision why May 30th, and not December 22nd, I explained it to you, we can do it again, of course, for another time today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69550	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and Honored counterpart Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69551	Dear President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, given that, in the opening presentation of the reasons for the submission of the proposal for a law we are discussing, it is also necessary to point out the real state of play of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the field of archival activity. It means how well you know it at the third session of the Croatian Parliament on 4 May 2017 we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives. The law has come into force, so this so-called. Most of the law of 20 May 2017. So the promoter was MOST independent lists and, by adopting this law, the Croatian Parliament introduced a whole series of changes and improvements into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. I remind you here of the most important. The principles of public archives and archive material and the principle of availability of archive material have been affirmed. The rules on the availability of archive material have been liberalised. The material is objectively defined under the data confidentiality regime. Any arbitration in the availability of archive material has been removed both archivist and state bodies. The availability of personal data contained in archive material has been defined, significantly facilitated user operation in archives. A significant reduction in fees charged by archives to obtain copies of archive material has been imposed. Free multiplication of archive material by users by their own manual technical means and without compensation is allowed. The law specifically regulated the full and unlimited availability of public archive material, and the legal declassification of classified archive material was carried out until 22 December 1990. Finally and most importantly, it was imposed on all holders and state archives to collect and hand over materials produced by December 22nd to state archives in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, it should be mentioned that most of the provisions of the key sublegal acts which were in force until these amendments and additions came into force, in such a way as to detail the specific issues which violated the principle of public and the availability of archive material and were largely a source of arbitration in the conduct of the archives. Culture ministers were ordered to adopt new sublegal acts in accordance with the amendments and amendments within three months of the entry into force of the law, i.e. until 20 August 2017 Therefore, as part of the debate on the legislative proposal that I am holding on the agenda today, it is necessary to specify the results obtained by the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archival Materials and Archives. You can essentially say that the results are double. On the one hand, although this is still not known enough in public and contrary to the public statements made by the officials of the Ministry of Culture that the bill that we have on the agenda today opens the archives in the Republic of Croatia, we already have the archives open with the date of 20 May 2017, and this came from the archive material until 22 December '90. So the archives are open at this point, you've witnessed it because there were certain files of people who were co-workers of the State Security Service in the media as well. I dare say that there have never been so many users in state archives as in the past eight and a half months, and I think that you will agree and even those who have expressed their skepticism that Croatian citizens are not ready to face the content of the archive material, only the opening of the archives has passed on the side of archive users without scandals, court proceedings or incidents of any kind. I think that colleague Dodig here said that Croatia is as a child we don't have to tell everything about, so nothing scandalous has happened in this matter. In this regard, I will recall that one of the key complaints in the debates prior to the adoption of these amendments was the protection of the confidentiality of personal data, resulting in the extremely successful regulation of this issue in such a way as to ensure that victims of communism, provided that it was not public officials or that those persons did not cooperate with the authorities of repression, were allowed to seek protection of personal data or the provision and investment in the relevant archive file of a special statement that would challenge the content of the archive material. This right to the protection of personal data has so far been used by only one person known to the public. The Croatian State Archives carried out protection in such a way that, instead of protecting the identity of the persons the archive material relates to, it completely denied access to that part of the archive material. The Croatian State Archives did not change their behaviour even after publicly published documents suggest that the person concerned was co-operating with some of these bodies and organisations by participating in the violation and restriction of human rights and fundamental freedoms of third parties, Article 21(4) of the applicable law. Here it should also be recalled that publicly published data indicate that in this same case someone in the Croatian State Framework has communicated data on users and archive material that they have searched to an unauthorized third party. It is true that it was the director of the Croatian National Archives quite unmistakably denied it, but until today, the public has not been announced that any state body of the Ministry of Culture, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and neither the law enforcement authorities would investigate this case and give the public relevant information. I think you all know what case this is. This brings us to the other side eight and a half months of validity of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive materials and archives. Before the debate on the legislative proposal, which is on the agenda, it is necessary to see how the Ministry of Culture and State Archives in Croatia applies the applicable law and to what extent they have implemented the changes that have been introduced into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, it should be said that the Minister of Culture has not submitted any sublegal regulations to this day whose adoption has been imposed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archive Papers and Archives. It is primarily about the Regulation on the use of archival material and the Record Regulation in archives which were required to adopt implementing provisions for the use of archive material, in particular to determine the prices of certain services of state archives and to establish records in a way that the collection of data on users is subject to the measure prescribed by the Personal Data Protection Act. The ministry has not carried out its legal duty more than five months since the expiry of the deadline prescribed by law. So the Ministry broke the law. The simple insight on page C of the consultation shows that the draft proposal for a Regulation on the use of archival material has only been put to consult the interested public on 21 July 2017. The consultation was closed on 21 August, so after the deadline for the adoption of the Regulation, reports were announced for 21 September 2017. Reports have never been published. In fact, this is not strange considering a number of objections made by the public concerned in a public debate which is such a character and so extensive that they point to a complete lack of understanding of this matter by the proposings as well as complete unsatisfaction with the legal, professional and language proposals of the Regulation. As regards the Records Regulation in the archives, not so much has been taken into account. Nothing's been done. Documentation and procedures of the Croatian State Archives show that the Croatian State Archives law of 2017 applies at least selectively. The Croatian State Archives opened archive funds in the archives, abolished the application of some so-called so-called funds. General acts which have prevented access to parts of archive funds and have allowed users to use manual technical means to produce self-refuse of archival material. They also helped fellow SDP colleagues who were reportedly published in the media, gave up practice to seek their consent at requests for insight into the former Alliance of Communists' material. This resulted also in the aforementioned liveness and number of users in the Croatian National Archives. In this case, it should be mentioned that contrary to the tables in the Croatian National Archives reading room, the written written warning remains, for example, I will show it to you. So it says here that when ordering materials from the State Security Service Fund, the parties should warn that they do not even order materials that are listed in '86. continue because this material cannot be used and must not be photographed before they have requested approval from readers, which is contrary to what we voted here in the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, the price list of the Croatian State Archives remains unchanged and the price of the picture remains two kunas for the black and white A4 page and 10 kuna for the A4 page in color, the digital image of the scan page A4 according to the price list is 10 kuna, while in practice it is charged 1 kuna per page, with the collection of DVD media at the price of 40 kuna. So, the Croatian State Archives continues to market from the user, at the first arrival in the archive and again once a year, at the beginning of the calendar year, I have it here, for the use of archive material with mandatory giving, the law of protected personal data, which are not necessary for working in the archive, such as citizenship, ID number or passport, date and place of birth, etc. It is noted that, in addition to the exceptional, where specifically prescribed, these data are required in any administrative procedure, which is conducted in the Republic of Croatia, the user is also asked to sign a declaration of obligations, the content of which is at least questionable. Unfortunately, such behaviour, i.e. the failure of the Minister of Culture and the Croatian State Archives, is obviously encouraging the regional archives to simply ignore most of the essential provisions of the applicable law. I quote as an illustration, just a brief statistic for 2 indicative data. Of the 17 state archives, only 2, those in Zagreb and Sisak, published on their web pages the law of 2017, and two regional archives, Osijek and Slavonski Brod, are still subject to the '97 law. and all other archives publish as a relevant 2009 law In the regional archives the price of photocopies, pages A4 in black white technology is 2 kuna per page in color as much as 10 kuna. Any costs of the certificate shall be charged in particular. Digital copy, for the A4 page, it's 10 kuna. This should say that the archives in Dubrovnik, Osijek, Varazdin and Virovitica have not published any price lists that apply. Given the administrative and professional supervision of the work and the conduct of the state archives, to be conducted by the Ministry of Culture, it is not to be expected to change this state, because, as I have shown in the case of the adoption of sublegal acts, the Ministry of Culture does not care about the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Instead, the Ministry of Culture submits to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Government to this legislative body, a bill that we have on the agenda today, with the launch of the media spin to open archives with this proposal. Unfortunately, colleagues and fellow MPs, that's simply not true. On the contrary, the intention of the bill, as referred to in the legislative procedure, is to close the archives again. The conclusions of the home council Committee on Education, Science and Culture are also on the trail of this conclusion. Already, colleagues in the debate mentioned that practically what was declassified is now reclassified. So we had open up to the Christmas constitution and it's actually the most interesting researchers, this process of transition from communist to democratic system. And now what it meant was declassified, which everyone could have seen, now the government, or the Ministry of Culture, reclassified, which is a complete nebulose, and that's what colleagues here have already pointed out in the debate. Also, as a third example, when I mention it, the rule on the use of archival materials, I suggest that, without a precedent, the transitional provision of Article 51(2) of the draft law, that, until the adoption of sublegal acts, it is precisely the rule on the use of archive material from '99. the year, which has practically been put entirely outside the scope of the amendments and additions to the applicable law of 2017. I won't have much time, there's a lot of objections to this law, I'll just conclude in the end. What's this really about? In recent weeks, we have witnessed how, by ruling in every way possible, they try to choke freedom of speech and impose censorship. By observing their initiatives, I feel like we've gone into a time machine and come back to some time, which we thought we'd left behind. Look, we had an announcement to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the only goal is to silence parliamentary deputies, after which, in the first days of 2018, the Minister announces the Law to prevent the spread of hatred, which is also censorship and now we have this new bill that actually closes the archives, and through the debate I will explain even in what way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69552	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused an extension of the replicas. Let's go with the first one. He's the first respected representative of Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I'm not calling you a colleague today, but Parliamentarian Nikola, what shocked me in your debate is the claim that in fact this current law, which is currently in force, for which the Bridge fought so hard, is selectively applicable, that the minister did not adopt the rules, the law by which she had to pass. Which he finds scandalous that the government violates its law. It is also symptomatic that Article 17(5) of this law, which could be freely referred to as a lex colleague, the Government, can mean an institution here, can mean a personal name, give discretion, to prescribe a particular information as a data that is in national security and to make it inaccessible. This power is further extended to public action material, which is not marked by a secret paragraph, in accordance with the failures to determine the confidentiality of the data. This means, here, plastically to explain, that the government can decide that a member of its government who was in some way in UDBA decides that this information that would go out would deny, therefore, a threat to national security. That information will never come out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69554	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69555	So, a colleague of Sladolev's and that we are not just saying hello to our HDZ colleagues to welcome you. As far as this remark, which you made, I didn't make it, so there's so much illogicalness in this law, I didn't just get to expose everything, but you're absolutely right. If we combine these two provisions, that means that practically the government can make everything known with classified information, and if we add that it extends it to these declassified data, along with a combination of these two provisions, it can practically declare any data inaccessible and permanent. So, this is a clean closing of archives on Wednesday and I would just like to see today, I saw that our vice president and vice president of the HDZ announced that he said that illustration can only be carried out if an illustration is carried out in the HDZ. Here's a test for HDZ. We'll see how they react to this law on closing the archives. This is a real test for illustration. Will it prevail in HDZ the wishes of Millian Brkic or the wishes of another colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69556	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69557	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy, you were saying something about how to treat the state archives to their users. You mentioned particularly intriguingly, one of the allegations that you said, that the state archive, unauthorizedly gives and collects, first collects personal data, users and then unauthorizedly, contrary to the positive regulations of handovers to third parties. I'd like you to clear that up for me. And the other thing that you also mentioned, you said that the problem of archive material was that the processes were not respected, that in the existing law, which Most put into effect, it was clearly put in place, deadlines, precise, clear instructions at which point and at which time the material was to be delivered to the competent state archives. You said that 2017. This law clearly states that the law amends that obligation, i.e. to abolish it. I'd like you to respond to these two items that you mentioned in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69558	The answer of the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69559	Dear fellow Petrov, so that I think the public is aware of this event, when the file was released in one daily list, a man who is practically the chief adviser to the diameter of Plenkovic and what is not the problem that he later received all the files of people, means who are these, searched in the state archive, because you can get every file if you are looking for it for insight. But it's an interesting way for him to get it. He asked, then, of the likely director of the state archives, which, by the way, I think also the reviewer of his book, or at least represented his book, asked him to deliver, meaning the list, that is, all the files that were looking for the persons, meaning, that certain last names, which, practically, were looking for those files in which his name was found. What's illegal, it's giving away, means the third person of certain data. No one has responded in this case, so in the case of this notorial colleague, neither the competent authorities nor the DORH nor the Personal Data Protection Agency nor the Ministry of Culture. They tried to pull something out, there came a duty officer, who deals with UDBA's issues, tried to pull something out, that he gave those files, but means, there's a reporter who came to the file, Mr. Bagaric, who's been mentioned and mentioned by this notorite colleague, so he means, that this journalist was exposed to everything he's been searching and everything they've searched, means people of the same last name as him, means all that data he's got on the screen. And no one responded to that, and it is unfortunate that the Ministry of Culture did not report back, that the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data had not called, that the DORH had not taken certain actions. And as far as this is concerned, it's clear what the intention is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69560	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69561	Thank you very much. Representative Grumoja, the entry into force of this law in this form, means the archives are closing or so on. that this law lex colleague, basically, will shut down what's already been opened not so long ago. You have well supported the facts, and I would ask you, how you comment, what you said, in fact, Article 19(2) is excluded from protection, personal data, just not persons who were both a member or a co-worker of the State Security Service and acted as a public office. So only two people in the entire system couldn't protect their data and their data would be publicly available. If this isn't about closing the archives, then I don't know what it is. And indeed this law should be called a lex colleague, absolutely closing the archives. Which is to you as a historian, in fact to historians, of course it's not good. You predicted this problem of material that was created in May, until December 1990, he was at this point defiled, by the law we passed, and by this bill of law, a lex colleague, he shuts down. It is a fact and it should be publicly stated that essentially the Ministry of Culture by law lex colleagues, essentially closes an absolute archive and it is the only task and interest in saving their colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69562	The esteemed representative of the bush will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69563	Dear fellow Bulj and other than this provision that you mentioned, which, in fact, I don't know, is a mistake that in the Ministry of Culture they don't know the difference between constituent and divorceal allies, what happened here, but practically they prescribe that you had to be on public duty and a co-worker of the State Security Service, and only in that case you can't protect personal data. It means only in that case. All others can protect their personal data, but without it, means independently of that provision, which can be changed, this bill closes the archives, as it gives the Government the discretionary right to declare anything by secret information or information of national interest and thus closes everything. I remind you again, the Bridge's bill is all open, so everything is open, except for the meaning of the project and technical documentation of protected and military facilities, industrial plants, infrastructure facilities and similar or data on the natural and strategic treasures of the Republic of Croatia. It's all that's closed and it needs to be closed. Radio National Security and all of these UDBA associates files that have been working in any way with any security service, they're open, this closes it all. I was convinced after the file of a notorist colleague came out that HDZ would withdraw, that he would pull out the manual and see us not to go with this, he would accuse us of what we're doing, this would be a huge damage to us, but they're so persistent because the question is what's going to come out and what's still hiding in the archives and believe me, it's not easy to get to because it needs to come through the files of those who followed not through their files because they may not have files. This notorious colleague was reached through Bagaric because a journalist accidentally sought out Zlatko Bagaric's file and in Zlatko Bagaric's file this notorite colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69564	Thank you. The next is a replica of the respected representative of the Dolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear comrade Grmoy, you also mentioned the problem of archive material that is not legally prescribed by the state archives. You said that the law that this House passed in 2017 contains clear and precise deadlines for handing over to state archives. You also claim that this law changes and that this obligation is lifted. Please explain to us your claims and how deadlines change from the law that is now in force in the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69566	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69567	I have already said that this law that we passed in May 2017 has prescribed two deadlines, the first period of 6 months since the entry into force of the law which expired in November, means that then all the creators, the owners of the materials, had to write down the lists of materials that are in them, and the second deadline also runs from 6 months from the end of the first deadline, and in that time, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to inform this Croatian Parliament of what is written and then we have that third deadline, which also expires in November this year, i.e. this year. a period in which the material must be physically submitted to the archives. So, according to what the Croatian State Archives published, the material holders of that period reported that they had about 1800 long meters of material, the list obviously is not a set, but so far it is known that the Croatian Parliament is also on the list, meaning this institution in which we are sitting today, which still holds part of the '63 material. until '82. And all the material from '82. until the '90s, and the General Affairs Office of the Parliament and Government held the material of the Executive Council of the Parliament, then the Government, from '45. '90s. in the amount of 194 long meters. There are also the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Supreme Court, the Administrative Court with a total of 320 long meters, and a number of ministries, of course perhaps the most interesting Ministry of Foreign Affairs with 286 long meters, the Ministry of Justice etc. And here, these deadlines, of course, aren't all respected, and here they are moving to change the law itself before all these deadlines are passed, these three deadlines I was talking about, and you can figure out what the reasons are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69568	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69569	Dear counterpart Grmoja, means the only opening of the archive should be the lighting of the Croatian past in order for victims who have contributed to the creation of the Republic of Croatia to have full meaning, but in addition, last time I said you were part of the government, that you were part of the government, that we must act seriously and that every serious state that holds to itself has some data under control. It's very interesting now that you in your discussion in front of the club didn't even talk about the essence of this law that's on the agenda today, you just mentioned one date that bothers you, and I'm going to repeat it now. So 30.5. is the breaking date of the creation of a modern, independent and modern Republic, it should stand as such in this law. You essentially chose to speak in such a way as to prevent HDZ representatives from participating because you are playing ping-pong here with your colleagues and only then are you talking about the essence. When you mention "only", it is neither simple nor complex but exclusive, and we have discussed you when, when you made a proposal to the Most Law, when you discussed it, we mentioned that you were threatening, or by that law that you gave the proposal, there is no respect for the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and that certain parts are inconclusive. You're now saying that certain institutions ignore the law we've passed and at the same time you've ignored the ministry, the portfolio, the professional services that have been telling you that they're preparing this law, that they're passing it, and now you're surprised that you're estimating that someone is ignoring it, and parts of that law are impossible to implement at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69570	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69571	Dear colleagues, you did not listen obviously to my debate which was very content and concrete with concrete data and remarks. I'd just like to ask you, did you vote for the MOST bill? Yeah. And now you're saying that this law does not protect personal data and you're talking about how every serious state has to protect some data from national interest. You are sending a message to my colleague Roscic, the HDZ voters, the SFRY is our country, and the state security services are our services and our national security to protect our colleagues, co-workers of these services, this is a matter of national security. If it's a colleague of Roscic, your country, my country, it's not my only one of these independent Republics, it's a country I'm fighting for and for its citizens and you're free to fight for those fellows and associates of those services, it's your choice, and how the voters will judge you, we'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69572	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69573	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. I then voted like all my colleagues on this bill and I carefully read it and then I spoke and now I will repeat, with the grudges he had. So he partially approached the problem of archive material and the problem of archivism in Croatia in general. And it's not true that something is now closing which, according to your proposal, should be... So with all the possible problems that Croatian archivists have, and we have heard that this bill completely solves them from inadequate storage, to the inability of adequate digitisation, to the inconsistency of sublegal acts, etc., this bill of yours at the time has partially accessed from the whole of this forest of problems, focused only on one detail, and ignored all these other details. And what's paradoxical is that you then made one fundamental mistake in that bill and I then warned in that debate, you did not distinguish between the personal data of the stalker and the personal data of the victim. When I tell the stalker, I mean the repressive apparatus. And when you say something's closing now, which means opening up if you're aware of the facts, and you should be if you're going to measure this problem, that all the persecutor's personal data has long been removed from the archives, so there aren't any. You will now find only most of the data from the victims, most of the data and they will be re-exposed to the public, so to speak, to the pillar of shame, undeserved. So all you're going to find is data on the victims because the stalker's data has been removed long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69574	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69575	Dear colleagues, I've been very interested in listening to your line, but unfortunately I have to tell you that everything you said doesn't stand. So how can you claim that the victim's files won't find anything other than their data? So we just found information on whoever was tracking the victim in the victim's file. Well, that's the key data. So in the victim's data, we have data on those who were in charge of the victim's relationship. Well, that's the key. Well, you can't look for someone who's married and look for his file, but you'll find it in the victim's file. And you obviously don't know that because you weren't dealing with that problem. Also, when you say that our colleague said that we are discussing each other, we are not giving you the key problems of this law, I gave them to you. So we have one period that we have openly closed, and besides that, the articles of the law give the government of the Republic of Croatia discretion to make certain information known by secret information. And as one columnist said, we can either open or close or give it to someone, I don't know that's what certain colleagues here in the Parliament suggested, that we have some kind of body that would care about it, and then I guess that body would be dealing with the files that fit them. We'll let this one out, we won't let this one out, that one's ours. That's the wrong approach. Repeat, we can either open or close archives. By proposing a law that we have, or by law which is currently valid, all archives until December 22, '90 unless a man invests that he wants to protect his personal data, it is by my knowledge only one man, but that provision, or what he did, that he should have been abolished after the documents came out that he was an associate of those services, so we now have the opportunity to protect personal data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69576	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69577	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Grmoy, so this law in him is all great, it's actually a profession, we have collection, elimination, storage, modernisation and that fifth digitization all of it is included in this law, but the people are interested in those political things, and that means those picnics from the archives until the '90s. So, according to all our information in the last 27 years eight, it's all been cleaned up, the team cleaned it up after taking over, and now it's only left for the people to see some tiny chickens, smugglers, drunkards who reported people singing "Get Up Bane" or "Villa Velebit". However, I want to look back at two articles that are a little illogical, my colleague Bulj spoke of in paragraph 1. Everything is available, and in paragraph 2, he says, except for those who have cut short, they have done bad things. So who determines it? Is that what the government's setting up? If the government determines everything we've solved. And in Article 18, which says that personal data is only available to those who were born a hundred years ago and over, which means that it could only be interesting Joza Manolić, but we know everything about him anyway, the rest died. So it's better if the law is called a lex colleague than a lex manolic because everything would be loaded on that man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69578	The answer of the esteemed representative of Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69579	Dear fellow Maric, there are many problematic items besides those mentioned in Article 17(5) where we have this new concept of not only classified data but also other classified information. And nowhere in any law nor in this one is defined as being classified. Then also in the same Article 17(5), we have that the Government may, by discretion, declare other data of national interest. Where do we have written in the Republic of Croatia what is this national interest? Is the national interest protecting this or that colleague? Perhaps the HDZ thinks it's a national interest because HDZ is above the state, so HDZ is more important than the state, which we have witnessed in many examples. I also mentioned Article 19(2). She says she's been acting on public duty. She was a member of you. That's their bond, that's what it was. So she had to act on public duty and be a member. That's two people in your system back then. So it's just them, only their data isn't protected. So this is a shame with which the Ministry of Culture came before the Croatian Parliament and still sell media spin to open archives, to arrange. Well, this is a shame. I'd like to, so here's what I'm proposing to the minister here to pick up her things, to conclude this debate, and to think that we're not ashamed any further, there's no point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69580	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69581	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Carefully listening to your debate, Mr. Grmoya, cannot be kidnapped by the impression that even before the eight-month law was passed, and even now that you may not have been motivated by that film "Das Leben Anderen", that East German movie that actually had every normal tickle that lived in the totalitarian system to see if he personally had such a record. The fact is, even from what can be read in public, and I'll look back at just one detail. Let's say when you look at the files of the respected Monsignor Fabian Veraja, then you'll actually find out everything about him. However, when you look for the file of those who were persecuted by his associates, officials, associates as they called it, the fact is that there are no such files. And that's why, let's say, in public, it's there, because the public thinks by opening up state records that they'll find files like that. There are no files like that. It is also a fact, and that should be said you did not say it in your presentation, but perhaps it is good for me to remind you that, let's say the Central Committee of the Croatian Communists' Union in the state archives is not completely committed. So it's not completely committed. The fact is also that until the 1990s, the state archives had no jurisdiction over this material, and that is what it really wants to suggest to the public by adopting this law. Although the measure of this law, and you are a historian, is an archive and archival or documentary structure and that's what should be dealt with, which should be the measure of this law. What is not good, and I want to believe that you want to become a serious politician and you are on a good path, which is that the thesis is that UDBA created a modern Croatian state. It is simply not good because of all those who created a modern Croatian state. And that is why I am in doubt with this date of May 30th that is important as a multiparty in Croatia since the act was adopted on 22.12.1990. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69582	Thank you. The Honorable representative of the Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69583	A colleague around your last thesis of what is unequivocal and what I think we will all agree on in the Croatian public is enough to look at the names that the refugees participated in the creation of the Croatian state. So this means that part of the associates of these services took part in the creation of the Croatian state. That's what I think and no one can contradict, and this thesis I don't know where you are from my exposure. I didn't mention it at all. So, first of all, I think the Croatian defenders created the Croatian state. And as for what you've done, I know Monsignor Fabian Verai and his family very well. Of course, there's no record of him, so there's some big information about who was his stalker. But we may be able to find out who this person is the same as we are, I cited the case in Zlatko Bagarić's file found the name of the person who was in contact with his mother while his father was in Germany, who reported him when he was 18 years old and shouted "Live Croatia!" Later, the man ended up in a bad society, we all know what happened. Perhaps this unfortunate family tragedy has affected that too. So we can find out that data, so it's not exactly what you're saying. These files matter. We can learn a lot from it, and as a historian, I think it's important to be open to understanding this totalitarian system that we came out of, to understand the way he followed certain people, to spy on them, to gather information about them. And not just for history, but for future generations, so that such a thing never happens again in any totalitarian form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69584	Thank you very much. Before continuing, we will now welcome the students of Ban Josip Jelačić High School who are at our gallery. And on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the esteemed Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. I've asked for a word to ask respected MPs and MPs not to fool the public. It has been mentioned here more than 10 times that archives are being closed without you making any single argument, no argument. And I beg you and appeal, we are discussing today the entire law on archival material and archives in the first reading. If you have any suggestions for improvement as we have during this period since the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law, we have introduced certain improvements into those parts that were the subject of the debate eight months ago, I ask you and I call for you to do so. It's very hard to refer to everything that's already been said and that just doesn't stand. First of all, if anyone has a grudge against the work of any state archive I ask you to report to us in the prescribed procedure and we will conduct surveillance in the part in which we are responsible. When you said the ministry didn't react, it just wasn't true. We have requested the Director of the Croatian National Archives's statement regarding the handling of certain files. We received an indication, the director of the Croatian State Archives gave the evidence. I would like to remind you that the amendments and additions to the laws passed to this House eight months ago voted for them by 114 MPs. Amendments and additions to the law were in two readings, and we, as a resolute ministry, have greatly contributed to that law and to the amendments and additions of the laws when they are passed, are applicable. If we hadn't reacted in this way, if it had been for that first provision, that unconditionally handing over all the material, and I remind you, that provision is not in force and is not in the current law, you would have been able to block the work of all the state archives completely. I brought out a debate on how many lacks of space are already now, so it insisted that the complete material be delivered immediately and unconditionally to state archives, you would have completely blocked the work of the archival service and I'm glad it didn't happen. In accordance with the applicable law, we have collected all the lists within 6 months. I can summarise them here, it is at this point about 21 300 debt archive materials that we contacted on 3 occasions state archives, collected as information on this material to which the amendments and additions are concerned, so the Ministry on behalf of the Government performs all its tasks in accordance with the amendments and additions, so please also here if any parliamentary representative or representative wants free full information about it, please contact the Ministry of Culture. As regards sub-legislative regulations, they are fully applicable, except in the part in which each provision has derivated the existing law, hence amending and supplementing the law. We will, of course, listen carefully and all the follow-up debates, I would only once again refer to a series of legal regulations that we cannot derrogate with certain legal acts, here I mean the Law on the confidentiality of data, the Law on the right to access information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. This proposal is fully in line with all these regulations, it has been made in consultation with all resolution ministries and if there are any suggestions for changes or additions, we will be happy to take them into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69586	Thank you very much, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69587	Minister, at the beginning of this presentation, you have not responded to any of the proposals tabled by your colleague Grumo and the MPs in this proposal. This is the first reading, the proposals are oral, you can accept and not accept from this, but the only thing you've done here is to protect the public. So you didn't answer, here, a few MPs, asked a few MPs what was the matter with Article 19(2) where they were excluded from the protection of only persons who were both a member and a co-worker of the State Security Service and acted in public duty. So only two people would be in the whole system... It would only be their open, only two men, it's closing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a lex colleague. I ask you, best to study this law, this law is about closing archives and not opening and I don't see any reason why 114 or 117 MPs supported this proposal a few months ago except the local elections, so you were embarrassed to vote because of your voting body against that law which was MOST's proposal to open the archives. You didn't give any of the other reasons here, this is the fact, the closure of the archives, and in this phase from the 5th month to the 12th month of '90, it's also closing, at this point it's open, it's not the same thing you've commented whether or not it's the fact, but simply the attacks on the MPs you wanted to insult them, their suggestions, fortunately you didn't throw your phone here among us, it probably wasn't with you, but I expect it won't happen. I expect you to withdraw this law until you prepare it, that would be fairest, or call it a law on closing an archive or a lex colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69588	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69589	Your Honors Minister. Dear fellow Bull, I would not agree with you if we had made any suggestions. This is so bad that it can't be fixed, this can be suggested, we can't make any suggestions now that would advance this bill to keep the archives as open as they've been so far. And it is not true, Minister, that MPs deceive the Croatian public because we have made clear the items of the law that are problematic, which is why they are problematic, why they leave the government's discretionary right to decide whether some data is secret or data of national interest. Also one period that we had now open, you reclassify and then sell media spin to open archives. No, you're closing the archives. And that's what you're locking them up to the extent that Collega Bulj said, that two people will practically just have their data open to the public, two people. And these two, if they have a colleague, Bulj, any connection to HDZ, will also be declared as persons of national interest and will be closed. They're very likely connected to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69590	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69591	Dear Minister, I am pleased that today this debate is taking place in front of the entire Croatian public for several reasons, today citizens can see who makes the arguments and who defends himself with silence. It's understandable to me why you'll be silent, which is why when you go out and you say that certain parliamentary MPs deceive the public, you won't make your own solutions or concrete arguments, you know that because you know whatever is said in this assembly, you know that on Friday when they vote on archives, they have what they have, what they bought enough to pass every law. And it's totally irrelevant to you when I say about you, not only do I mean you personally but... I mean these people who support the ruling majority, it's completely irrelevant what's inside. They'll get a warrant to raise their hand for it. And the fact that in the existing law, and not the one where you suggest it's absolutely all open, that these people here don't care. That you have a chance if you want to because anyone who wants to find a way, who doesn't want to find a reason, because you don't want to increase or invest in archives for 27 years, so that you can clean up all the material today, that's not our problem again. You have a problem with deadlines, it's a problem for me that for 27 years you're not working on it, and today you're creating an opportunity to extend to another 27 years. That's the problem. Take advantage of the possibility I ask you on behalf of Croatian citizens and all those who care about this, withdraw the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69592	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69593	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Minister. You do not need to give yourself into this story that this is a law on closing archives because of course it is not true and we are witnessing the attempt of a fellow bridge to challenge again in public a certain reaction of citizens to completely untrue thesis that they are of course using as a model of their political struggle, which is not correct. But the fact is that they didn't learn anything from a colleague from the club going to them for the policy they were implementing, and also from that law that we passed eight months ago when they were almost in the archives, I guess they were the only ones or sleeping there because only here are they talking about many people who don't have a chance to defend themselves, certain information, letting certain information into the media. And, of course, now that we want to solve things completely, which we announced, and when we passed the law that the government in its normative activity programme had this very law, then someone was in a hurry, obviously at the time, for a certain political platform that was meant to go to local elections to pass any law and you were doing it and we all fixed it together and we passed that law. Now that we're completely trying to work something out, and now that that's wrong, you're still told to pick yourself up and go away, is that they're a measure of truth. So why would the minister pick herself up? For what? That's not correct of you. She is here to defend this law with her arguments, and you may agree or disagree with it, but you are not the moment of absolute truth in the Republic of Croatia, I told you this morning, gentlemen. No such attitudes, let's have a debate, let's hear it, this is the first reading if you have anything smart to suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69594	Here's a colleague of Grumo's. You've picked up a tile.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69595	I was just going to ask the chairman if you want to respond or just sit there? So a colleague broke the meaning of a breach of the Rules of Procedure broke Article 238, talking about an issue that was not the subject of debate. He's been replicating the culture minister the whole time he's talking to us, not talking about the law at all, you're not reacting at all accusing us of calling someone names. I didn't have any names here during the debate of yours, not a single name, all the time I was talking about a colleague. No, I mentioned the file of the man in which that file was found, your colleague was found. What hurts you to mention your colleagues is your problem, Boric. I really don't know what to do, here's what I didn't mention. I talked all the time about a notorous colleague and he's not answering you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69596	Of course, the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, but here is a good example to amend the Rules of Procedure and make it much clearer to prevent his abuse in any way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69597	Dear Chairman, I'd like to ask you to listen truly to counsel statements. Boric spoke about the situation at the Most Club, he talked about how we go out and disinform the public, and he replicated the culture minister about the bill's proposal, so that's a violation of Article 238 to talk about a subject that is not subject to discussion. I'd like you to follow up on the presentations of the HDZ colleagues in particular and warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69598	Comrade Grmoy, I am very well-traced at the presentation of all colleagues and as you can see very liberally with this approach. If you want me to be stricter, I'll be stricter, but I'm afraid that almost everyone will be interrupted by me because most of you are leaving the topic and not mentioning it, going wide, talking about this and that, etc. I think a certain level of width can be allowed to anyone if it doesn't cross over. If it moves, then I think the chairman should react. But if you think you need to sharpen and strictly stick to me and I can do it, it's not my way. I think parliamentaryity is that people can speak more widely, but we can talk that way. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69599	The chairman, I apologize, but I can't help but refer to what you've said. You are using your current position as an opportunity to say what is going to change with the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall not change the contents of the replica, but rather the reduction of the number of replicas. Among other things, it's something you suggested, but what's more important is that you didn't react. I'm sorry to have to warn you. You have not responded to the breach of Article 235 in particular to Article 238. And since you've given Mr. Boric the opportunity to speak beyond what should be said in that replica, then let me also tell Mr. Boric that I don't know what the problem is and why he likes tape recorders. So I'd like to ask Mr. Boric here to explain the tape recorders a little bit, because it's a way that she used UDBA very often and the previous system. Or maybe the tape recorders weren't developed at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69600	Thank you. Of course you know that the Rules of Procedure have not been harmed by my exposure, because that's what you've raised yourself to. And now that you've already pulled my tongue, I suggest you chair. You refuse to preside, and buy a nice salary here in the Parliament. You didn't want to preside once, so remember to call.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69601	I beg your pardon. No, not just a moment. If you want to be honest, then please let me just say one thing, and that's what I said in Article 238. I'll just tell you one thing. Mr. Rainer, you were the first time I resigned to fly to that place, you were fighting for those armchairs. Enjoy the chair! This one's much better for me. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69602	Of course it's better not to work, but to buy money. I agree with that! Here you go. He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69603	The same violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You referred to yourself in a certain way in an inappropriate way. I thought I'd say the same thing as my colleague Petrov said that you're the one who got into that position, so sit down and enjoy yourself. My colleague Petrov doesn't want to be here, sit down and enjoy yourself, chair. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69604	I always think it's very good to get paid, not do your job. Thank you very much. The next one is the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please welcome to the name of the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69605	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on archival material and archives announced, so as a whole proposal for a new law. When laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament or in any other Parliament which are, therefore, a unique text, and not only amendments and additions, then usually the question of the purpose of passing a new law is raised. Namely, there is a law that is in force. It has been nivelled several times, has also been novelized and it is obvious that a single analysis should be made in any case, which then answers the question of what has changed throughout the course of certain activities and how to modernise the normative framework in which certain activities, to which the law applies and takes place. Here, in the very announcement and reasoning of the law, it is said that the purpose is that there have been significant changes in the environment in which archives operate, and that the applicable law has become obsolete in many of its provisions and does not meet the challenges of today's time, nor the needs of the archival service in the 21st century. It is also justified in some ways as it is prepared. It has been said to have been part of the government's legislative programme, i.e. the legislative plan. However, such a thing was planned and 2013 so the law did not prepare or pass. The fact is, there are two aspects to this whole story. One is the political one we now hear and which is mainly a dispute between HDZ lawmakers as the ruling ruling coalition and the MOST, which intervened with its proposal in the text of the law last May. And the other one who's interested in the profession itself. So, are we going to let, in the shadow of this political game and the struggles remain all the questions that are the key issues when a new law is passed, which is what the waist said. I will remind myself that the Croatian Archive Society has for years warned that the need to pass a new law is evident and that the process needs to be preceded by an analysis of the existing state of the archival legislation, a thorough preparation and quality within a professional and public debate, and with this goal, a section for the archival legislation was established in society. One of the most important things about the adoption of new laws is a comparative review, so let's see what happens in other countries of similar size, economic power or an approximately similar cultural circle. Let us not forget the archival activity is one of the most important activities to preserve cultural identity, to preserve collective consciousness and conscience, or social memory. We rarely compare archival activity with museum, gallery, with librarians forgetting actually that there is one important difference. You don't have to keep this glass under any law today, even though it may be a museum artifact in 40, 50 or 100 years. You don't have to write books, you don't have to keep them. The author of the work of art is allowed to destroy it, but in archivistics everything that is created as a written audiovisual trail is already required under the law to be kept. Some of these records, some of these memorabilia temporarily, some of them in the short term, some of them in the long term, some of them in the long term, there's a big difference in that. And when we compare the situation in the archival activity from 20, 10 years ago or today, the first and basic thing we need to know is that by expanding the network of archives and stricter application of the law on archival activities or archives, there has been a major increase in the scope of the building that needs to be accepted, systematized and permanently taken care of. But what happened in the capacities we have? Unfortunately not much. We already have the situation, we heard from the minister, that only according to the provisions of the laws that went into the novels after the adoption of a fundamental law that we are changing to a new one at the moment, that more than 20 kilometers of archival construction should have been accepted from different institutions, and we have no place to go. Let's look at one of the acquisitions of the archive network, it's the castle of Kerestinec in which the facility is in condition. These are not the conditions in which it can be guarded, taken care of, and prepared and preserved by the archival structure for us. So the archival profession claims that the condition is not good. and that one important, serious, reform step is needed, which will also evaluate existing capacities, assess and need in the future that will also talk about staff teaming and resources that have an archive profession today and which will need tomorrow, which will talk about what the other is doing. For example. The Slovenians have already changed the law and the model of the organisation of the archive service for the past twenty years 3 or 4 times already, and none have been satisfied yet. Let's see what and how others do it. It is good and we hear in the announcement that it is planned to adopt strategies for the development of archival activity within the year after the adoption of this law and we will get one situation that is not good. So if we do the strategy right, then it will, of course, be based on an analysis, will be based on a very large number of recorded data on the existing situation and needs in the projection of the future. Well, isn't that the first step in considering a new law and not the other way around? The papers proposed by this law are such a character that they could be freely proposed by amendments and additions to the law rather than by a whole new solution. The only fundamental novelty in this legal framework that is now proposed is digitisation and attitude towards it, but it is not more than universally defined either. All of this will be defined later by sublaws. So we leave one of the basic and most important things to the sublegal act, we know how we make the rules, they are brought by ministers without the Croatian Parliament. And these provisions in this law allow sublaws to actually change the essence of the proposal in the law itself, and that is not a good solution. On the other hand, it's grotesque how this law was born. When we look at some dates, we will see that there was a dead race between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture, on the other hand, because everything around the draft of this law took place until May last year. The expert commission that worked on this bill practically existed for 45 days. In 45 days or 3 sessions of this expert commission, a job was done that was not significantly different from what was presented to the expert commission at the second session itself as a draft. It is interesting that all the directors of state archives themselves sat on the expert committee and that on the very proposal that went to the public hearing their directors, their association had a very large number of objections, not only them. A large number of remarks were made not only by people from the profession not only of the association but also by experts in the archival profession, the Commissioner for Information, the Office of the Attorney General, the Financial Agency, the Croatian Public Recording Chamber and a whole series of individuals. When we look at the analysis of these proposals and what the ministry has said, we will see that the ministry has accepted only a small marginal number of these remarks and proposals, mainly as regards the entirely illogical elements of the proposal or some things that have been seen as contradictory, e.g. the application of the Regulation still put out of force in 2010. All the essential remarks made on the text of this law have been rejected. It's not good. We expected the bill to adopt basic principles in accessing and preserving and protecting, for example, digital buildings, digitalized buildings. It is generally stated what this is about, let's say, concretely, for example. on the construction created by the work of the state administration and other public services with the aim of making the office and the status of originally digital materials and digital copies, materials and how to manage them. Therefore, a new law would be expected to define these basic principles, to prescribe a framework for the creation of a national system for its acquisition and storage on public servers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia under the supervision of the Croatian State Archives. A new law has been announced that some new developments in the archive service organisation will be defined. And what exactly did we get? We've received a strange mix of regulations that define the way institutions and archival services are organised so far. For example, it's interesting that among those who are directors of the archives held, there are many who have never worked in the archive before, before they entered the office, and now they're already, by who knows what mandate inside. They very much cared about the conditions of the director's election, but let's say that they skipped those definitions that would define long-term conditions for higher archival titles. It's left with a rule book. The Institute of the Administrative Council is also being introduced, but only for institutions, i.e. archives that have more than 20 employees. There is no analogy with the existing law, which says it is, in all institutions above 5 employees. But that's also the introduction of a board of directors, but a council that won't have an impact on the selection of directors is actually an expansion of clients. Each council will count five members, will be elected in a manner prescribed by this law, which shows that political personnel are possible. But it's important that we in the network next to the regional collection centres, which existed, worked successfully, so we promoted it to a system of separate archives and that we have 18 directors today. The existing model in which the idea, i.e. the Institute of the Administrative Council, is now being upgraded, is estimated to be unstable and that the board of directors will, as defined, be a new source of instability because, let's say, the provision on the adoption of annual plans is in the coalition with the adoption of a programme of directors elected by someone else. So how is it possible for a director to be elected on a single programme, and in the administrative council defines him as a completely different plan of activity that delegates his plan. It should have brought some balance. What about the ahinet, the National Archive Information System, which was commissioned and paid by the Croatian State Archives, which was to serve all creators and holders of public archive material, that their documentation from the moment of creation is in a particular documentation system, under the supervision of archival experts. Later, co-ownership with a private company was established over the system paid for by public money. This relationship between archives and private companies, i.e. the influence of private companies, which are engaged in archiving, i.e. by depositing an archive building, is not resolved at all by this new law. We don't think that's good and that this whole law doesn't touch the burning questions of the archival profession. The current pressure on state archives should be reduced by stimulating the establishment of locals, we know that the huge amount of construction is still out of reach of the archives, that they are private collections, that they are located both in museums and in various other institutions, that existing archives are unable to accept that structure. In this sense, our club cannot accept this bill even in first reading. And as for the dates, which are very resilient to you, as far as we're concerned, we can agree to the date 15.1.1998 which is actually the official date of completion of peaceful integration, the reintegration of the Croatian Danube, so let's see what happened by then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69606	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the replicas, we would like to welcome the Croatian scholarships, the participants of the international programme of the Bundestag scholarship, the Federal Republic of Germany... who have come to listen to our Parliament debate. [[Applause.]] Well, we have more replicas, the first respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69607	Dear fellow Richembergh is not your disputed date now, however, it is not disputed for you to suffer, with some things you even agree with, but the question arises, why, your party, or, your current position, why so far you have never taken the initiative, to take such... Is the law passed? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to say that this law is ideal, I'm going to say it's the best, but he's not here first of all to edit something, he's systemizing how you wrote it, but he's here first of all, to find out the truth. Unfortunately, you've done your best, you and your option, that the truth may not be found out. Who, unfortunately, I'll say, and when we get into those archives, we'll find out in them, one big nothing. Because all that matters is in Belgrade, and you know it very well. So, all documents, concerning the UDBA and the refugees, mean, unfortunately, they're not in Croatia, but they're across the border. So by opening these archives, we'll find out one big nothing. And here and there, they're going to go, I'm going to say, some man who may have been an individual, was an associate of the UDBA, a sympathiser, but those key people, the owners, they're going to pass, here without consequences. Here he would also say what is very important, and that is, some colleagues were speaking here from the Bridge, about how the refugees were creating a Croatian state. It's something inadmissible. The Croatian state was created by Croatian defenders, Croatian people and such untruths are in the Croatian Parliament, they simply cannot hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69608	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69609	Dear colleague Zekanovic, of course you have the right to say whatever you want, but I am sorry that you did not refer to something concrete that I was saying, so it is obvious that your replica is not sent to me, only in the first part. I'd be happier, of course, if the new law had been passed before. But I am not among those who seek it, that it may be brought at all costs now. Because look, let's say he was defined in May last year and it was seven months ago. At that time, the members, the expert committee were assured, for an obvious political reason, of the race with the initiative bridge, that this should be dealt with urgently and immediately defined by the bill so that the Parliament could adopt it by summer break. And here we are in February, so obviously it wasn't that urgent. And while it wasn't so urgent, I'd like that time to be used for real public debate, for consultation with a profession that says aside this political problem that you're talking about in the Parliament and that's being entertained by the public. We don't mind, we'll do as you say. But don't forget the real problems of the archival profession when it's already passed a fundamental law that defines the work in which we work. Give us some relief, give us a definition of the development of this activity. As a legislator, how will you help us to do better? Will you provide enough resources in the state budget? How you will encourage the development of a local network of archives, save and store buildings. So these are questions we don't have an answer to yet, and that's too bad, because today, when we bring or for these days when we pass this law and in another reading when it's defined, we're actually going to have a problem. Who, after the adoption of the new law, will be re-emerged in its amendments and additions or the adoption of a new law. It'll turn out to be bi-legislative. It's a shame she didn't take advantage of this opportunity. Obviously, the waist had a large number of objections. but they didn't listen. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69610	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69611	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll stay in the dark. What are the experiences of similar issues in other countries? In East Germany, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, all the secret agents of the Stasi found no place in Germany's new state in common. They weren't even there. Why? The lustrations have been carried out and they are as such recognized and they are isolated from the authority of a joint advanced model to us Germany whose member you are, as I see it, represent their interests in Croatia. I mean, you and I met two years ago in the hallway, and you asked me fellow MP what they call you? I'm called Steve, I'm Stevo Culej of Jarmina by Father Djura, Mother Barice involved in the '90 Homeland War. Until '97. And that's what I have to say for myself. Who are you, sir, among other things, that you laminate us here often on all topics, especially on this subject. You don't find a part of yourself, and I don't know you, and it would be a prerequisite that we all know everything about each other, not that we can find out through the media, the memos and the press, and I'll read you how far I get. "In February 2006, the Croatian newspaper from Zadar published an alleged list of associates of the former UDBA State Security Administration. A number of names included the resident Goran Beus with the code name Odyssey." Is that you, Mr Beus? If you're not, I apologize to you to the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69612	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69613	We'll start at the end, of course. I take your apology very warmly because it's not me. In three separate court proceedings, I proved it was lies and slanders. My conscience is pure and peaceful, and you or someone else who entertains it, who invents my different names, let me do what I do to you. If it's your toy, if you're having so much fun, if it's nice for someone to call themselves what I'm called, then we'd give them another name, have fun. And when I asked you what they call you, I wanted to be polite, because in my neighborhood I come from people who call themselves "Stva" or "Stva" So you know what it's like, let's say there's a colleague here, say a minister we all call Kujundzic. They call him Kujundzic in his neighborhood. Because people usually like you to tell them how it's said in his neighborhood and that's it and nothing else. If it is fun for you, then, to give others some other names, to make their national designation or membership questionable. I mean, I'm not a member of Germany, it doesn't exist to you. Maybe a member of the German team might exist. I am a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and I am a representative of the German minority in Zagreb County. And that's it, nothing else. I represent their interests, not any German. Germany is my great-grandmother. And I'm just as proud of her as I am of my Croatian homeland. I hope it's a little clearer for you now. If not, go to www.goranbeus.com. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69614	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69615	Dear colleague, we've been listening to smoke curtains all morning. Of course, this isn't about the media, they're interested in the silicone buttocks of Kim cardashian, the party, the hunt. But this is a key issue for the Croatian state and bringing back collective memory and other things to us. I asked Miss Ossuary to return the archives from Belgrade. No answer. There are 700 funds and collections of Croatia, cultural treasures, archives etc. The ratification of the agreement was signed in 2004 by ratification and the Croatian Parliament's concession agreement. Nothing's been done ever since. There are thousands, thousands of meters of film down there and so on. They're down there most afraid of comrades. Why are they afraid? Because there's a name down in the SUP. Maybe some of them have code names like Odysseus and I don't know if it's you or not, but there are other code names like a amber, etc. There are documents that aren't all destroyed. You mentioned other countries. Here's Germany, for example, opened 400,000 Germans there saw the files of who was typing them, and you were talking about technical things, and the morale-ethical things because people were enslaved, they were doing time because they were talking, a joke about another Tito, not a word. Not a word about the people who were tortured in prisons that someone ratted out, not a word about the murders of UDBA. Only technical digitisation, etc. Pure smoke curtain. Here is Czech Resolution No. 4, they all had to sign there a statement of conscience that they weren't secret service associates and were all removed by an iron broom. And if this were to be signed here, how much would the head disappear, from the media, from the legal space? We can't build a healthy state with these frames, we still tap in place, but the opening of the archive is the second pillar of lustration, and the third is human, and that is feared by comrades in this House and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69616	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69617	You know Mr. Glasnović as well as all other colleagues, as I do that the issue of lustration is not the issue of the Law on Archive Construction. The law on archival construction may be amended when a political decision on the conduct of the lustration process is made. So that's just the consequence, it's just a technical tool that will eventually allow lustration. I have nothing against it, even more, here I suggest that since now the President of the Republic of Serbia is coming to Zagreb for a friendly state visit, to be one of the topics with the return of the artistic treasure that we are looking for still and all the other issues that are open, place a free request for the delivery of all documents that have been archived as you say in Belgrade and refer to Croatian citizens. I have absolutely no problem with that, so feel free to initiate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69618	Please don't throw it out of the bench, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69619	I did not receive either the prime ministers or the presidents of Serbia, nor did I call them, nor did I send them telegrams or love letters. You know who was in a position to decide. So feel free to initiate, come to the President of the Republic, she said the other day, as far as I know, I guess it's not finished yet, that the list of topics has not been completed. So if you haven't yet, suggest that it be one of the topics, so let the people talk to the missing, and let the lists of cultural treasures we're looking for be the list of those you're looking for. I don't mind because you'd finally have arguments then you wouldn't be talking casually, you wouldn't insult people based on lack of evidence. Then you'd have something in your hands and then what you're saying would be credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69620	Comrade Glasnović, please don't throw away. Please, let's be worthy of Parliament. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69621	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Beus. Your exposure reminded me of that communist exhibit where everything was told, and it doesn't say anything. ...the purpose of law-making, analysis, modernisation, collective consciousness, conscience, duty to keep. Yes, all of it is and it's all in that law and it's all fine, but I personally think that this people should know who I am, all of it to know about me, who you are, who all the other people who behave in public and state power. We have to simply open the archives that people have insight, that the public of Croatia sees who runs that country, that's the man who decides who we're talking about right now. And these stories about UDBA and others, clearly should be freely entered into archives, especially historians here such as Bunjac and similar people who have interest, open up, see and tell the public what's been going on for 45 years. We won't spend another 45 years of your exposure so that someone can see, and even says there's no room. As far as I know, Vjesnik is empty so take these spaces if there are probably many more in Croatia that I don't know so that these spaces can be filled, the archives can be placed and made available to our citizens. I want our citizens to know who sits in the Parliament and with what qualities and their history, that's my interest. Therefore, about us all, the public needs to know who we are, those people who decide their fates and their lives. But today and before, you still can't know if we sitting here and the people who chose us chose us to talk about it. We must have honest and honorable people in this House which I personally now personally support the government and I think it's going in that direction, and we'll see in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69622	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69623	It's not since yesterday that the Croatian Parliament is allowed to say whatever you want. Here and there, a little bit of the Rules of Procedure squeezes you and they say you're off topic, but these are ephemeral situations, they're mostly talking about whatever you want. So that's how it happens with the replicas that you're talking about something that the speaker didn't even talk about. So you honor me for speaking about the professional side of the basic law on the archival profession, and then you honor me for not saying something that is completely impenetrable to us. I don't know who you're fighting with. So we've been recruiting the law and it's being transferred to a new one in May last year, and the new law says the same thing to you. And now why should I refer to it if it's not at all controversial to me, even if I suggest taking a new date on January 15, 1998, so let's see what repressive services have been doing towards their own citizens and in the 1990s. Why people make things up, fake documents, create new files, why they were persecuted, and that's a relevant question. So until '98, and you can do as far as I'm concerned today, so I don't have any problems with that, but I don't know what you're having trouble with. Because let's say you have problems with your own identity when you regularly say I as a businessman. Oh, Mr. Muscle, you're not a businessman. You're not allowed under the law to be a businessman. You're a politician because you're a state official. And if you're interested in me, feel free to go to wwwgoranbeus.com there will write you everything, I guess you're in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69624	The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69625	You're talking about Kerestinec Castle as an inadequate place to guard the building. That's where the entire Vesnik file is now rotting. It doesn't say anything about colleagues or colleagues. It's not the devil that he was just one colleague, I guess there were more colleagues, a whole college, yeah, which is the '90s. Entered HDZ. But it says something else in that file. It says how many schools were built in socialism, how many hospitals were built, how many railways, that's the same part of our history. But it would also be the task of the Ministry of Culture to take care of that building, because it is a testimony at one time. When it comes to dates, it's a regular deadline of 30 years, and now it's shorter by 2 years, but you're absolutely right, let's cut it to 20 and make it January 15, '98. Because it's a period of war. I worked on the radio and received reports from journalist Sinisha Glavasevic, who accused both President Tudjman and then the government and then the Parliament that they had betrayed and sold Vukovar. Well, I wonder if that's true. And I'd like that building to open up, too, so let's see, finally, what they looked like in those war years. What the background of that war looked like. Because for now, all we know is propaganda, but we don't know the truth yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69626	The answer of the respected representative Stazic, pardon me, Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69627	Fellow Stazić, you mentioned one detail, extremely important for the cultural history of the Republic of Croatia, which is the fate of Vesnik's documentation. It's about a huge fundus, extremely important therefore, data that was right, I don't know how far it came to digitize, so that the whole period of time that Vesnik was going out could be searched, to make it easier to get information, which the public at the time could find out about the events around us. Not just about what's been going on since '45-'50. The number of people killed... People's traitors, I don't know, tried people for treason, etc. but what exhibitions were held, where theatre shows, who did everything, who hosted, what were political initiatives, conclusions, different political bodies, how therefore modern Croatia was created in this sense, after war, which were institutions and how they stood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And made it possible for a new, democratic Croatia, '90s. Sir doesn't sit in the mud. He sits on solid foundations. So it's one huge thing about our country's cultural history and I think it's very important that the Ministry of Culture invests additional funds and decision itself to take it from HINA and to give it to the Croatian State Archives, it was a good decision, but to give additional funds, to digitize it as soon as possible, for researchers to be available. It's simply the time machine of our country over the past 60, 70 years, and Kerestinec, unfortunately, is not a place where it can be kept permanently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69628	Thank you. Before we move to the next club, we will welcome the students of the Mark Marulić High School from Slatina, who are also at our gallery... And now we will continue with the next Club of Representatives that is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman will speak. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Every law on archival materials and archives has at least 2 tasks. On the one hand, ensure the construction of previous generations and past times to make available modern women, and the other is the task of archival law, to ensure that modern buildings are available to future generations. Today, I'm going to talk about this second point first, because this first one, if I get to the end, this exposure, if not, then in an individual debate. Why is it important to talk about this second point, that is, what will happen today with the digital structure that is being created, because we live at a time when businesses and bodies of public authorities and the business of the social network are digitized and everything. Therefore, a documentary structure is created, which simply, if nothing is done for the 20, 30 years of that future generation, will have no information or complete picture of this time today and what we have done, including, if you will, if you need a visual display and probably 80% of what is happening in the Croatian Parliament, the question will just end in the archive. If we don't stop now, we don't take over a program, we define a program, how to create this digital archive, or, the archive with digital construction, the more we delay, the more expensive this job will be, and much more complex, since then, these subsystems, which will need to be integrated, will be very difficult to change. What you should say is, it's right at the beginning, I can say, that this law in this sense is not aggressive enough, it's not precise enough and it doesn't suggest which components, or which processes should be united, in order to get to one functional archive with this new digital structure. It is commendable that this law is aware, the legislator is aware that this should be regulated, that public authorities, to an ever greater extent, are creating material in electronic form, that this should be regulated by the basic rules for the conversion of material into a digital form for permanent storage, etc., therefore that part of the law exists. The same thing that exists is that we have this one transition period, which is that the analog structure of the archival or that conventional archival structure that needs to be digitised, is made available to the public, however certain provisions are given, claims in Article 7 the documentary material can be converted to another digital form in accordance with the regulation which is then established by the Ministry of Culture. However, this already arises because it is digitally the business that is claimed to be archived, documented, it is argued in Article 13 that this public archive material in digital form, as a rule, within a period of not more than 10 years from its creation and that the archive material is handed over to the competent national archives, recorded, in rounded whole, technically equipped and in digital form, which is suitable for permanent storage. It simply won't work because today whatever digital media you prescribe, neither this archive nor all the archives together for a while will have that technology so that they can read, follow, use it, and therefore we will come to a situation where we simply won't solve it. What I'd like to say is that we need to start from reality, the reality is that today more and more of these jobs are digitized, giving more and more of what we call e-Croatia and these databases of data and business from day to day is increasing. 3.4 years ago, when Minister Bauk was Minister of Administration, I asked a representative question about how many databases exist in Croatia or the state administration of the ministries. Then the minister answered honestly, I only know about those databases that exist at the Ministry of Administration but not in other ministries. In a conversation with today's management minister, he said, "Now it's that register, but it's not over yet." I asked this Central Office for the digitization of the state administration to see which services there are but a complete, precise answer I didn't get. So on the one hand, we have a lot of things, but on the other hand, when it's supposed to be united, it just doesn't exist. We're doing one projection intellectually, mentally if you want, in 5, 10 or 30 years, it's probably going to be digitally 2/3 or 80% or 90%. Today, some countries have already made a decision, a regulation that after 2025 they will not receive paper construction in archives but will only store them in digital form. We need to prepare for such a scenario. Therefore, what is proposed here to adopt a National Plan to develop archival activity, it must already go according to this law and, in addition to the law, it should be put into account, taking into account some reality or anticipe what will happen. First, I would like to remind you that already the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the State Information Infrastructure Act in 2014. We can call it different, we can call state information infrastructure as the law provides, we can call it a server farm, we can call a state cloud called in a particular literature or body of the state administration that deals with this, but the fact is that it predicts that state information infrastructure is in charge of a particular body called the center of shared services. However, when it is sought whether the centre of shared services is functioning or not, it is one gray zone but there is already an anti-cipulation who should be in charge of this state infrastructure. In other words, all servers, all databases... public authorities must use this infrastructure, state infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be prescribed when we as state officials or already as we are, when we communicate, then we should communicate not via Google, not via Yahoo, not through this, but through a server that is part of that infrastructure because only then does it remain stored or can it remain stored for some future time and this way Google or someone else will have information that we ourselves will not have. What was I going to say about these archives, creating e-Files, digital archives? This job cannot take over the state archive itself or in determining the formats of the recording nor of the creation of that infrastructure, but it must come to one coordination, which means in my opinion that the state archive can and must be in charge of the classification and standardisation of the documentation building in order to ensure all that is expected of the authenticity, credibility of the original and the building, that the Ministry of Administration must be in charge of keeping the public register of these databases. We don't even have a harmonised termology is it about databases, data records, documentation records, etc. And to be responsible for approving the formation and creation of these databases. No state body can, in its own right, create any database. These are some other standards I can't talk about right now. The Central Office for the Development of a Digital Society should take over, or its obligation to interoperability of these databases has already been defined. In other words, the databases should be connected. We can't go to every choice, before every election, to compete on the electoral lists whether there are dead souls or not. Because when someone dies, it should be updated automatically on the polling lists and other databases. The Centre for the Sharing of Services is responsible for the pooling of this state information infrastructure. The Agency for the Security of Information Systems must be responsible for standards of security, protection, control of communication channels, etc. This programme in order to succeed, in order to form it in this way in order to be rational to see it, needs to be a national programme of creation of vital interest with no duplication of the State Archives being a parallel structure of this state infrastructure, but it is part of it and simply determines the conditions under which data can be used especially because the intensity of this law is said to be that each document is already classified, but at the time of creation is made available to the public. It's actually this one intensity that I think should work will not be easy to create this project, because that means that when we adopt the budget for next year, not every ministry can have an item for digitisation, regardless of what these digitisations are, or digitalized databases are interlinked. I'd stop there, though. I think we need to make an addition to the second reading to get this inside to supplement it. But let me go back now as much as I have for another minute and a half about this discussion. Look, just a few here are the remarks that have been made. Mr. Grumoja is talking about how it can be read in the context that the Government is the one who will classify documents from the past. The government does not classify any documents, but only the documents it creates. So it's one hoax that something will manipulate or happen to that data. On the other hand, if we are, we need to agree once on which we are Croatia. It is offensive that you said that we or one part of the SFRY that is going on, and the the the thesis that Croatia begins with the Constitution or the thesis that the other representative said and it can be 15.1.1997 years is simply the the thesis that this SFRY continues. For me, the Croatian state begins on 30 May when the plan was presented, when democratic elections were completed, when the first democratic parliament was established so that I question it I think it is extremely unserious with the adverse consequences and by interpreting modern history and everything that has happened further.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69630	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas. He's the first respected representative of Damir Felak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69631	Dear Dr. Tudjman, I think that in your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club you have actually approached in one way how you should approach when it comes to explaining a law systematically. You've made your remarks, and I agree with you. I think when we talk about the lack of space for the archival structure, I think you should really think about finding a way to keep the archives different, not just in paper form, and then it would be much easier to do anything about space. As far as space is concerned, and in this Assembly hall I can conclude that a party that was very loud on Friday, their President Mr. Petrov is not present here today. He spent a lot of time in the Parliament if I stepped up for an hour and 20 minutes, but he's fine with the vice president's salary. As far as I can tell from the Most, there's no one else. I'm just saying this on the way, so the public doesn't get the wrong impression that only one party's parliamentary representatives are in the assembly without everyone else in the House. And in the end, we're all here as long as we can and we're working as hard as we can at the council sessions. But what I'd like to ask you is, is it really true that this thesis that tried to break through at the beginning that HDZ is guilty of all the things that are bad about this law on archives, that we want to cover up some of our members. And when did HDZ come into existence? And only before the first democratic elections and won power in the democratic elections. What about everyone who's been since '45-'90? Sir, where are they hiding? If they have someone in HDZ, I don't think we're recording that such people have archives opening up, but there's a lot more of them in a lot of other parties or in the Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69632	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Tudjman, after which we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69633	Thank you. As for these hidings, non-hidden hidings, look, first of all, we're talking about this termology used here, so I'm going to mention them, the refugees or the Kosovars, as if they were an independent factor in this totalitarian regime, not that they were under the authority of the ruling party, i.e. in this one-sided system. And in fact, that party was the one who used them and according to which they acted. The key body for this action was the 2nd Committee, for the General People's Defence and Social Self-protection and advice for the General People's Defence and Social Self-protection. This advice was a political body, by law was the head of the party at the head of the body and they made political decisions and defined the tasks, what we call the UDBA that otherwise had the slogan "Siti sword of the party." That archive, I asked Zoran Milanovic, as Prime Minister, which, with this archive, is advice for the general folk defense, he said, is, that is, the party, that is, the Communist alliance handed over to the archive, the military archive, but when I went to check, it was simply not true. So, this muttering, hiding, these key documents, they were going on before the authorities took over, before the results, when they knew each other during that period of a month, when there was a takeover, up to... that is, the period when it was waiting for the authorities to take over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in that period, it's supposed to be a lot, and the building's been destroyed. To claim that by changing that date from May 30th, that structure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69634	Thank you. In violation of the Rules of Procedure, he was raised by a respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69635	The Honorable Chairman, you persistently violate the Rules of Procedure, did not warn a colleague who did not speak again on the subject, but spoke of the presence of a representative of the Most. We've been very involved in this debate. We know we don't have anything smart to hear, here now, because we're talking about media acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69636	Now you're breaking the same Rules of Procedure because you insult others.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69637	But because you do not respond to the Chairman, and you have violated Rule 236 of the Rules of Procedure, the President gives his word as soon as he asks. And you didn't give me your word. I'll ask the opinion of the Constitutional Committee on your conduct, if you don't know how to hold a session of the Parliament, then say, I don't know, some of your colleagues to chair here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69638	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69639	No, God won't, because if you wanted to, so, but give us 10 days to chair, so let's put the laws that go in favor of the citizens, you'd like to
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69640	.../Intruder Renier: You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69641	Lord Petrov presides, when you can't, when you're in the field.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69642	You've run out of time, Mr. Grmoy. ... Change, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69643	.../Grmoya Invader: Will HDZ dictate everything in this country?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69644	Let's not yell at each other from the bench, please. A colleague, Zekanovic, has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69645	That's right, Mr. Vice President, Article 238 of his colleague, Grumoja demeans and insults the president or other MPs, he said he had nothing to hear, so he suggested that everyone here who speaks, not smart, is only of course the people of the Mosta are smart, so when they get a fee, for Vice President of the Parliament, and they don't want to hold a session. It's very smart, getting money, not doing your job, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69646	Okay. Let's end these injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which are not injuries to the Rules of Procedure and bickering. Come on, citizens want us to discuss the laws, not fight each other. The next replica is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69647	Dear colleague Tudjman, the esteemed Vice President, the Honorable Minister. I would say, that Croatian society needs modification, it needs purification, and I will use a word that is often used even though it has poor connotations, which is an illustration. And just the opening of the archives is on that trail, to see what happened. But I will repeat what I just said, unfortunately, when we open the archives, or when it can be entered into archives, freely, we will find out, almost nothing. Because unfortunately, all the documentation is not in Croatia, it's not in Zagreb, it's in Belgrade. And that when we say, when I say all the documentation, I mean that key documentation about people who were members of the UDBA, which means they were systematically working against the Croatian people, we won't find any trace of them. We might find some document on some UDBA associate, so we'll be able to, at least partially have some satisfaction, but the real truth, this way we won't find out. But here I find it interesting, how the opposition actually shuts up. And she had the opportunity to put this law into office for several decades or so, to open the archives, to see what had happened in the past periods. So they even ignored the Council of Europe resolution, e.g. The resolution on the condemnation of totalitarian regimes, and the best way to accept that resolution is 1 4 8 1 is to just open the archives, to see what happened during that period. I will conclude, we need the truth, this time, to know the truth, and again I will repeat what Mr. Gromja said, the Croatian state was not created by the refugees, but created by Croatian defenders, and it is not acceptable for Mr. Grmoja to hear such a thing in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69648	Thank you. Now, I'm going to give my colleague Grumoy's word right now, and he's the one who picked up a plate of damage to the Rules of Procedure, and what's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69649	Thank you, Chairman, for finally sticking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69650	Comrade Thunder, you can't discuss this with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69651	So I thank you, what's the problem with you sticking to the Rules of Procedure? What's the problem? So, my colleague Zekanovic broke Article 238, and he broke it during the violation of the Rules of Procedure that he had where he said I told the other MPs that they were unwise and he broke it now because he's discussing a subject he knows very little about and he's always talking about how we should open the archives. Mr. Zekanovic, you're in your own voice and 90 more, I think 93 MPs have opened the archives. 93 I think opened archives, so the archives are open. At this point, the archives are open, and if we're discussing the subject, let's not deceive the public. The archives are open and now it's trying to close them and we'll see, you've been taking part in the historic opening moment of the archive, we'll see if you'll participate in the historical moment of the archive's closure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69652	Now, first of all, your time is up. Comrade Thunder, your time is up, that's one thing. The other thing, and you know you've now abused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I ask you not to do this anymore because I am sick of these abuses of the Rules of Procedure and the first to abuse, I will apply, of course, what I can and it is a reminder and then a second reminder, etc., confiscation of words etc. Please don't devalue this house, let's not devalue this debate. Now he will answer his colleague, Tudjman, to a replica that has already been slightly forgotten by the peripherals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69653	My colleague Zekanovic, should be precise, the archives are open and the archives will remain open because nothing important has changed and will not change. The team before wonders what I'm going to do, the thesis that's being presented, not using archives, but using the next one, so I'm going to read it. The commanders of the ZNG unit, the police of the Republic of Croatia, part of the state apparatus, is an agent of the HOS, and therefore the Croatian people cannot trust them and, in particular, not members of the ZNG, and they are asking for the agent to step down. And continue to withdraw from the battlefield and go to Zagreb, to take down the then government. What is it is, a flyer with a HOS logo, signed on behalf of the HoS Chief Staff which was distributed at the Belgrade international centre organised by the opera. And today we're dealing with the thesis that Hos placed and we place them here, not to call on archives and what it says in the archives. It's a picture of our today's Croatia and our mental set that rules in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69654	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69655	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tudjman, you said that the archive is a serious activity and that should be taken seriously because in fact this law should be allowed to be available to future generations and absolutely right there. And I'm glad you're actually talking about the content of this bill that should actually edit these things in a better, more accessible way because you said that at the moment you created a particular document to be immediately available at a certain application and that application of the Ministry of Culture or one state application. However, in one part you have touched that the bodies of the public authorities and thus the units of local self-government and regional and regional self-government and they create archival and documentary structures and the fact is that employees in these units of local self-government are not actually archivists and they have little knowledge of that and that they are secondary people or secretaries or drivers or cleaners and are actually dealing with such things. So, you should think about it, I'm glad that the law recognized it but it's also the law and in fact this bill has created one obligation for units of local self-government that are not only tied to employees who should do so but also to the means and space they do not have. So in addition to this, we need to think about this, and I think that the proposal for this law, as you said, is a good path that will certainly last in fixing archives, archive buildings, mainly local self-government units and regional and regional self-government that are 556 in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69656	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69657	Thank you. Comrade Babić, look, these new technologies simply by logic things violate this traditional structure or scheme of archives, state archives, regional archives etc. Today they enable or will enable when we create this one state-owned information infrastructure or a state cloud, let's call it whatever you want, that in fact everything that used to be subdued under private archives, today it can also be placed as a documentary structure of one interest on that network. This will simply be possible given this technology and, on the other hand, give one parallel, most MPs have a Facebook page, they have their websites, etc., in the current law there is no way of ending it in the archive. Most of the communication that we all do from me, so on when we set up meetings as parliamentary representatives, we work through Google or some other network, it remains undetectable. So it's kind of a problem. The other kind is yes, I'm going to take this example that you're familiar with, and that's the Pension Insurance Office, their database. They even say there's no national interest, we shouldn't. If I'm going to say that there's only one place, that it can be subject to a flood, fire, earthquake or I don't know what, it's not too smart because someone can come up with the idea that for their selfish reasons something like that is going to destroy it, and that's a one-time position, a one-time server, so it has to be arranged differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69658	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69659	Dear fellow Tudjman. I made it clear and tried to impute my colleagues Zekanovic about who created the Croatian state, I think I was clear there and I would not like anything to be imputed. And as for what you said about the date, it is a fact that after the democratic elections were held that there is still formally an SR Croatia within the SFRY that the Constitution is still in force, that the legislation is unchanged in relation to the constitution of '74, but regardless of which we have already declassified it and it is available at this time and now we are closing it again, regardless of which date is more symbolically important. We've already opened it, this law is now open. And as for what you said about the government's lack of a classification, I'll read to you whether the whole law is to look at, Article 17 paragraph 5 of the bill states that "public archive material containing classified and other classified information is available at the end of the 40-year period only with the previous declassification procedure if the other law is not specified otherwise", means other classified information is mentioned there. Again in the same article, "the proposed law proposes that the Government of the Republic of Croatia be given authority by its discretionary decision and without any legal criteria to prescribe other data of national interest which will be subject to the time limits of availability beyond and beyond those regular deadlines. In particular, it is indicated that this authority is further extended to public archive material which is not marked by the degree of secrecy in accordance with the regulations governing the confidentiality of the data."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69660	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69661	My friend Bolt is not exactly what you're saying. First, it is said that classified material can possibly be extended, not that it can be subsequently classified as classified material. I've listened to you, so I'd like to ask you a little courtesy. That's the first one. Secondly, it exists in every country, there has been an objection to whether there is a public interest, as this public interest can be taxed. What may be a threat to the public interest, is today an elemental postulate or fact or topic in education and international relations and in the state administration that it is not possible to foresee today to do a tax on what is jeopardizing national interest. It's a bird flu, it's immigrants, sometimes it's a third thing. Thus, no country has been able to do this to a tax system yet. Only in your interpretation is that possible, if possible, then please state. And what is stated, other than what is stated, can be x examples that can compromise national interest and do not need to be recognized in advance. So let's not falsify things, what's declared in the previous regime is open, no one closes it, you just lift one tension and create public delusions. And the far greater problem is what is our responsibility to build today, the system that we're building to be so that in future future generations can know all of these smart and less smart things that are being said or spread in public today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69662	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69663	Dear Representative Tudjman, you say this law is to work with the goal of revealing the truth. However, I would like to warn you that I am skeptical of your claim because you were here in the Croatian Parliament defending the truth. I said at the time that your father shared BiH with Milosevic, and you said it wasn't true, that I was lying. However, the UN court's verdict has come where it has been proved by a judicial process that your father still shared BiH with Milosevic, and even the state summit recognises the verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69664	Comrade Pernar, please. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69665	Comrade Pernar, it's a way of working when you want to provoke and create excesses, not stand behind words and attitudes. First of all, there is no such wording in the verdict. There's something else, but not what's said. On the other hand, the UN tribunal's verdicts, as well as any court rulings on political judgments, will be bickered. We have the same verdict that the Croatian people never accepted from Stepinec and beyond, and we have this verdict which I doubt will be able to withstand the test of history or verify the facts. As far as this verdict is concerned, I have written and stand behind what I have written, and that it is a shameful judgment, unacceptable, done in unconfirmed facts. The story itself or the thread of Karadjordjev, which is the only evidence that the public wants to create or call, was paid by Ali Izetbegovic the day before the meeting was held. And then he claimed he had no idea about it, which he said to hide the sources, he called for different sources that denied it so that it was based on any basis on both factographic and historical and material untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69666	The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic's respected MPs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69667	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I fully agree with your debate and I find it unacceptable to impose, attempt to impose the thesis that there is someone here in the assembly against the public interest in lighting the data. In addition, 114 MPs voted. So we've shown more than just how open we are to the archives. But one is the openness of the archive, and the other is the question we keep trying to talk about here, but we can't because we don't stick to the metrics. Do we now have a chance to deal with the problems of archives that have never been arranged through two readings, and we have heard the presentations of the Ministers who are these problems, how large they are, and how much in fact how long-term they should be edited through both regulations and sublegal acts and through the National Archive Activity Plan? That proposal, which MOST made, of course, is essential and no one disputes it, but it is also important that this bill is essentially in line with all of the EU legislation, which is the protection of privacy and the protection of personal data, which is one of the fundamental principles of the EU and one of the fundamental principles of the law to protect, to make a distinction between the victim and the perpetrators, and I continue to responsibly argue that this was not done in this case. And you have mentioned several laws that will be harmonised through these two readings, concerning classified data from that of the Data Protection Act, the confidentiality of data and information security, as well as the Law on the right to access information. I think now is a unique opportunity for all of this to be put in order and arranged through two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69668	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69669	Thank you. My colleagues, the fact is that the archives are open, the fact is, as someone here has already said that researchers have been sitting here for months. But apparently they haven't found what they wanted to find, not in view of the past time, but in view of the projection of the creation of the Croatian state since the 1990s. And then now the thesis is going through, and it's not really crucial, but that truth exists, but only, but it's hiding somewhere else behind the 1990s. It's the same as the trial of General Gotovina and Markach. Yes, it could have been proven to be an excessive shelling of Knin, but someone hid the artillery logs that never existed. It's this one pattern that's simply one if you want an intellectual attitude or a political maturity position simply inadmissible. What should be done and what should be analysed, and I agree there, should be all those media frenzys, misinformations that are at the time of each war, there are more than usual that misinformation that was created, and these are also that the refugees or the KOSs in all rows are being placed by KOS. And amazingly today, people without fences are called to the same formulation, the same thesis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69670	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next line, distinguished colleagues of the MPs and MPs are honored to welcome his Excellency Mr. Kadri Veseli, president of the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo, who is visiting the Republic of Croatia with the delegation. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] And now we have the last replica of the esteemed representative, John Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69671	Thank you very much. Comrade Tudjman, I am pleased that in your discussion on behalf of the club on a very complex and very sensitive subject you have approached in a studio way and have practically offered the possibility that anyone who disagrees with what you are saying to give the counterargument. However, the basic reason I volunteered for the replica is the date of May 30th. We are, unfortunately, a lot, practically all of us are participants in a newer Croatian history. We talk about her differently. And it's amazing how we relativize May 30th. Well, on May 30th, changes definitely took place in Croatia. On 30 May, what the Croatian people practically said in the elections was achieved. On 30 May, conditions were created for the adoption of acts 25.6 and 8.10 and for constitutional changes to take place after these acts. However, some left the Croatian assembly during the early Croatian history of key acts. Maybe they're in the way of your debate. Maybe that's something to talk about. Has there been a change of political nomenclature in Croatia from 30 May to 22 December? No, there were no elections, so the people who were in power on 30 May were also in power on 22 December except that a few of them replaced, as I know they went to Belgrade here or there, but it was a decision by all the Croatian Parliament. So my date which is definitely pride, there is no Croat who was not proud when the Croatian arrival rose and today when I remember the scene on Jelačić's salary when the gentle Cardinal Kuharić in a cradle symbolising the creation and birth of the Croatian state put a dukat as a symbol of the gift of a newborn child, you cannot see this sequence today on Croatian television. Why? Because many of these historic days are disturbing and today they want to revitalize it, and it is good that you also said in your debate as a participant of that time that they simply do not have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69672	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69673	A fellow Shuker apparently bothered many because President Tudjman presented the programme in ten points on May 30th, the first was the creation of the Constitution, the second confederal arrangement, the third Euro-Atlantic integration and those who forget then one of those ten points was the demographic restoration of Croatia and they mocked many with it. So what happened to the decision to take down the socialist was before the decision was made... to change the coat of arms or not the coat of arms but to take down the socialist choreography, that was the decision. But something else happened, what happened was that at the 8th month the Balvan Revolution started, so with this shift the date opened up a space for reinterpreting these events as space opened up when on June 26th it was not accepted as Statehood Day, and then the judgments made that Croatian troops were illegal or paramilitary or I don't know what it was because it moved to... That, when taken into account, is not what people care about in all these conventions that should be taken into account. On the other hand, this deconstruction of state institutions has just gone beyond changing these national holidays, so today you don't have a good share of people who don't know when it's Statehood Day, Independence Day, and because it's in most people, I'm starting from myself, but probably for most of us Statehood Day 30 May and that's how we should mark it. By the way, those who planned it well, they planned it so that none of these national holidays would fall today when it was the duration of the school year that children could mark it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69674	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69675	We're continuing with the law on archival materials and archives. Next on behalf of Club Representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69676	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. We have before us a new law on archival material and archives, which should solve problems in this profession, which are quite considerable, and the question is how successful this law can be in the conditions we currently have. As we hear, archives have no space for their work, archives do not have people who should carry out archival activity, and what is worst of all, the culture ministry budget is extremely low and one percent of the lowest in the entire EU. In fact, we, and in this existing law, which is now to be changed, have some solutions, on paper, that have never lived. Here is an example, namely 1997, that other archives, e.g. County, private, specialized, etc. But to this day no one has been founded. So we've had the law for 21 years, and that law has, for a large part, remained a dead letter on paper. For this reason, ask yourself justly what we will get with this law, whether another piece of paper, or if we will get something concrete that will improve archival activity. What I'm saying, of course, is that one of the bigger problems that we have with the archival structure is that that structure isn't in the archives, it's not in the archives. And the provost that should be done at all is to bring that stuff into the archives. No researcher, cultural worker or other interested citizen can search the archive structure if it is not in the archives. The structure is scattered in many places, and what's even harder is that it's not even recorded. So, the archives basically don't have any data, where all the archives are, what they're in, what they're in, and how much they're in. Here's a correct example. You have an example. parish offices, in parish offices are kept very valuable books, some of them are centuries old, such as parish monuments or parent books or, say, the status of animarum, the state of the soul. I personally tried repeatedly to warn the archives that these books would go at least to write them down that they existed, to try to photograph them in some way, to bring them into the archives. However, the results were very weak. I've seen that file kept, much under completely inappropriate conditions. So it's on the shelves of the closet. When you take those books into your hands, they literally fall apart, crumbling under your fingers. It's a history that disappears, a very valuable history, a history that concerns the end of our ancestors, but it is therefore very poorly cared for. You also have many other similar archives, let's say even by the home offices that require archive protection but still, so they're not even classified, let alone stored in an appropriate manner. I've also seen files that have fallen from moisture. I saw the files that ate the mice that rotted. These are all terrible things when you see with your own eyes, but as we can see, there is still no adequate answer. Another problem, let's say, with archival material, is that very little photos are archived. You come to the archives in Croatia today. Very few photos you'll get about our past. Go to Hungarian archives, Austrian or German archives there you will get an innumerable number of albums with pictures where each photo will write you exactly the time of creation and who is in the picture. With us if you need an old photograph of Zagreb or any other person, then you have to go to practically Jakushevac, you have to go to those go tell the wild markets at the collector or try to find nuškal through some auctions. What's worst of all, everything that's worth is sold at auctions in foreign countries. So our history is sold outside Croatia. How did she get there? You're worth the paperwork. Let's say even the old 15th, 16th-century, geographical maps. That's what the archival, so the waist never responded correctly. The big problem is the lack of digitisation of citizens. So in all orderly countries you have digitized not only key documents, but you have digitized parent books, you have digitized old newspapers. It's all just in the bandages with us. If you want to explore your past you need to open websites in the US or Australia, because they have more information about Croatian families than Croatian institutions do. I'd like, for example, as a parliamentary representative to conduct the digitisation of the National Journals, the most important newspapers in the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to study the old laws that may have been 50 or 100 years ago. But it's not there. So even some basic procedure isn't done. So let's say that even when a digitization is done, when a building is microfilmed, then you don't buy equipment with which you can examine it. So you come to the archives, say you have a micro film. Put on a micromovie screening device and you can't see anything. So this is the condition of the Croatian archival building. I would also like to say that in this law, it is very doubtful that a whole chapter on what is the classification of archive employees is. So in this old law, you had a few articles that accurately defined who the people working in the archives were. Now it's thrown out. Now it's being arranged by the Rules of Procedure brought by the Minister. This opens up the possibility of major abuses every time the minister comes he can bring his own rules and bring down careers of people who should be, therefore, career experts, who should live their whole lives in archives, a working internship, and be led into certain uncertainty. And they're disgruntled ministers. Your archive employees are not satisfied with this bill. I believe you've heard some of that, too. What we must also say, however, is that today we have a case here that essentially the archives are being discussed in a way that this debate has become about history, and in the most immediate part of the debate on secret services, so I would like to make a little reference, and given that here there is certainly an interest in this, as we see a large part of the parliamentary representatives not at all interested in the archival activity itself. It is true that Croatian society is burdened with the legacy of totalitarian regimes and that many people today don't even know what happened to their family members, let alone what happened to society in general. It is justified to ask for funds that could shed light on this area, but you have one big problem and I would like to point out this. Now, even if we open up all the archives that exist right now, you come to the archives of those files that you're interested in, there isn't. So you have no files from 1 to 100. You're looking for file 33. He's gone. The 67th list is gone. The 82nd list is gone. Someone's got permission. I would be very interested to hear from the minister who, as a private person, is entering the archives and extracting the information that has been compromised by him. So Croatian state archives are someone's private property from which certain politicians or others, some other public figures have the right to hide the data and I don't know where out of holding. Are they being held in their private properties or have they already destroyed them? I'm also curious if it's allowed to investigate the victims why, say, the Ministry of the Interior Fund has been completely closed since 1945. It's been talking here like 30 years and so on. I've personally seen boxes of sealing since '45. which shall not be opened without the permission of the Minister himself. So none of the archives can open them before they get it. And now we've had, like, weird situations, that I've had people come to me, who've already been to... Age, one 70, 80 years old, and they were saying, "Give me a clue where my father ended up, where my mother ended," I want to at least light a candle on my grave, give me some information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you come up with sealed boxes, you're practically half a foot from the answer, but to the answer, you can't come. These are great human tragedies, and on this side indeed, everything needs to be done, to be done by at least 1990. It provides insight into the entire structure, that is, human destiny. Of course it suits someone that your data doesn't go out because we're witnessing great manipulation and politicization of the past, as we can see in this parliamentary debate. Someone answers that the number of victims can be manipulated and it is truly amazing that today, after the past 8 decades, we do not have what all developed countries have, included in our neighborhood, and that is how many deaths are in the 2nd century. The war. And what interests most people most is the number of victims of the Jasenites, the number of victims of Bleiburg. I know it sounds amazing to you, but we don't even know what the number of victims is in St. war, where there was no such ideological rush as in these cases. Since the archival structure is completely closed, and those who are trying to inform themselves about it are practically declared public enemies and politically inadequate persons, then we don't need to be surprised, that until today, let's say we don't have scientific monograph of Anti Pavelic, everyone talks about him, everyone talks about Ustashas, come to the library you don't have any single book, not one, not a zero. About Tito, one book was written three years ago by his biography. We don't have any synthesis, more recent synthesis, objective synthesis, let's say an anti-fascist movement. You have those foreign books that are based on anagirics. You have these new books that completely ignore or disrespect it. There is no synthesis of the first St. The war. Try to borrow the book of Croatia in 1st St. The war. Try to buy, I don't know, get a book, get war victims, where you'd get all the data in one place and most importantly, so that these data would be convincing, that they would be really reasoned and in some way that they could enter the encyclopedias. There's no such thing as that, and it all comes out of this. Due to the very poor state of archive activity and archives in general. That's the problem, and that's where it's supposed to start. Slovenians have, for example, a list of all graves of the Croatian army. Hungarians know, have in their archives, 5 times more information than we do about Croatian history. They're complicated here, they have inventory, what are our inventory? You come to some archive, they'll give you 200 boxes and they'll tell you the list, ask for it. Instead of getting some inventory, some index in which you will in alphabetical order find what you are interested in and relatively quickly learn some data. So in this sense, I agree that it is necessary to open archives, that people need to know the truth, that they survive one catharsis in a certain way, to realize in reality that the idea of reconciliation, which is so much needed for every society, especially society, which, therefore, was by the totalitarian regime that survived more wars. But I'm afraid this law, in this way, will not be able to resolve that question. Now it's going to be here in the Chamber of Mixing, there's going to be a little cacophony, this, maybe someone, day, two three, will talk about it, collect political points, but in the end, I'm not convinced that this law will finally solve these problems, which would eventually be what all Croatian citizens expect. And for that reason, at least in the first reading, the Living Wall won't support this law, because we're not convinced he's on the right track. Maybe with the amendments, maybe with some repairs, in another reading, we can come up with something we can say, that it gives such hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69677	Thank you, Agent Branimir Bunjc. We have 3 replicas on his display, which are the replicas of colleagues Babic, Vlaovic and Misic. He's his first colleague, Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69678	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Bunjac, I agree in most of your discussion, when you spoke about archives and archive material and in fact the difficult situation of the Croatian State Archives, as a central body, but also 17 district units, and in fact the minister in her opening presentation, I don't know if you were, in fact, talking about some held archives, the area, like Dubrovnik and Pazin, actually haven't received an archival structure in years. And it's definitely not good and it needs to be arranged. I believe that the resources we use through the bodies of the state authorities are decent means and that perhaps a different way of thinking could be considered. However, you have touched in your debate and archive of parish offices and said that you have encountered very bad experiences you have had with it about the state of the soul, I don't know, books, queens born, married, dead, and that you are sorry that through parish offices, in fact this archive is not kept in one better way. As far as I know, the archives of parish offices are being held in duplicate, so parish offices and bishops' offices. Everything that's in the parish offices exists in the diocese offices and I think it's well arranged and it would be good to have it at the state level. However, the proposal for this law in Article 28 of this archival material of religious communities also states that religious communities, in order to ensure the care of the materials and articles of this article, can conclude an agreement with competent state archives. So this is possible, and as far as I've heard from the Minister's opening statement, she said that some of the European Social Fund funds will be used for this purpose as well, which is good. Just for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69679	The answer to the replica please, comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69680	... The truth is there are diocese archives and there is now one detail highlighted. The diocese archives usually contain digitized structures, so let's say the original books are in the parish hall, and on the diocese archives are copies stored on disks or CDs. The question arises why can't the Croatian State Archives do it? So you don't need to know what kind of space to store CDs or to store computer disks. Here's the state archive is close to less than a mile away, let's go look for church books, we won't find them all, especially those books that I mentioned monuments,... these are first-class books for reasons because for most of the settlements in Croatia, the practical parish hall was what the state administration is today and you simply won't find. I tried to believe me ten years ago right in the state archives, said you have these services, you have your vans, you have your people walking around the field, so get those books either physically or digitized to the Croatian National Assembly but to this day they haven't finished there. When it's over, I don't know. At the rate that we now have in such separations, I'm afraid it won't happen in the next few decades. Surely, while many parishioners really try to keep these books in the best possible way, they do not have an archival degree or have conditions. So there are different boxes, temperature, method of disposal, etc. which are ideal only in the archive. I'm afraid one part of that building will fail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69681	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69682	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bunjac, in your presentation, you said that the law on archives and archives will not solve the problem and that I agree with you because the Ministry of Culture with this large budget and with the knowledge that much of the archival building is still not committed to the State Archives and you yourself have told insufficient space, people and everything else, and thus we show one carelessness, long-term care for the archival structure and that our treasure is preserved, the truth about different events. And the HSS is particularly interested in having open archives because on February 19th and 20th, we will mark and remind the public of the death of Croatian martyrs, peasants who then rose up against that regime that worked tyranny in the country and did not even know where these people were buried who were then killed and that truth must come out. And not only that, but all the victims that have fallen and all the problems we've had with totalitarian regimes must be visible to scientists who explore this area as well as to others who are interested. Of course, in this way we can't solve the problem, and I dare say as Prof. Milotic, on the Legislative Committee, that, in this way, the assessment of the effects of the regulations has not been carried out, or sufficient money has not been provided for the implementation of this law, that this law can be stated under the Parole "Brigo My Switch to Other" because the creator of the archive building of the unit of local and regional self-government will have to digitise the archival structure, space to make, equip, employ people of the local and regional self-government units, as well as other local creators, have no money for that, and therefore I think that this syntagma of "Brigo My Cross to another". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69683	Thank you. The answer to the replica please, comrade Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69684	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vlaovic. So you've made a good point in the sense that my concern is to move on to another. This is literally done in a way that a huge part of Croatia's archive building is stored in foreign countries. So you, like I said, if you want to know what Croatian history is, let's say you're interested in the history of HSS, then you have to go to Belgrade or Ljubljana, you have to go to some other countries to get to an archival building. Why isn't that building returned to me to this day is not clear. So it's not like I'd say someone's defending her from coming back to Croatia, but without initiative, she's simply missing initiative. The fact that someone says they don't give us, I went to Slovenia and Budapest, and Belgrade, and in Vienna everywhere I got everything. So it's not true that it's, what you'd say, that I'm not there to get it. But then you just ask yourself a question, wait a minute, that's ours, why don't I finally come back. Not to mention other archives now. There are Croatian history in both Turkey and Russia and Germany, and I don't know where it's not and there's no going back to that building. Did you know that Hungarians have the largest microfilm collection in the world? They are all about their history in other people's archives if they couldn't return they simply micro-corporated and brought it to Hungary. You don't need to if you're Hungarian to go to any other state to explore your history. It's a big... I'm sorry the minister didn't fight for a bigger budget, I'm sorry that culture, science and education are on such low branches in the Republic of Croatia. See what money is spent on and for what megalomania, madness and cold drive, and for what our identity provides, which was provided for 1400 years for Croatian culture there is not even 1%... there is not one, barely half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69685	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69686	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, you've spoken very interestingly, but I'm interested in one other thing. You doctored history, you're a historian, is it possible today you have some lectures about Croatia's history during Yugoslavia and you don't have that knowledge and you don't know it or you couldn't get it, of course you now said you couldn't open certain boxes, certain archives of our people most interested in the period of '45, 1990. Just what you said killed people where they ended up, who killed them, why are those pits that haven't been dug today. What was going on in Jasenovac, what was going on in Bleiburg? This should simply be written to the end. However, if you as a historian and as a researcher cannot get all these things, then we are all in error here and the whole people simply cannot be sure of all of us. We need to be clear. This is a past communist time. We simply have to tell the truth, and what lies are, and I find that democratic and young our people must know what happened in '45. 'Til the '90s. Most people are interested in that. We'll talk about everything, anyway I'm for the archives to agree, certainly digitize. But all the countries have done it and we will not do it on purpose. I'd say that on purpose, we won't, we're stalling to make this people simply extinct, and it's all too late, and in the end no one will answer for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69687	Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69688	Thank you very much, Mr. Misic. Yes, it's tragic that no one was responsible for the serious crimes that were committed in some totalitarian regimes. I met recently on the street with murderers who weren't the only day in prison. Not only were they not the only day in prison, but they were still making fun of each other. It's a tragedy. And what's also a tragedy is that the law is interpreted selectively as anyone wants some kind of power, not as it should be in the function of science. Let's say you have even this law says you can grant access to the building by the approval of the director, by the approval of the minister, this one, that one. But when you write a request for approval, you won't get it. I asked the Home Secretary to open the building of the police just for 1945 and '46. a year when there was the greatest execution, etc. He never answered me or answered me. And according to this law, what is very interesting is that they are allowed to prohibit access to construction that is allegedly publicly available. That's the problem. So on one side they won't let you access the building that's closed, but at the same time they'll ban you from accessing the building that's publicly available. And that's what's controversial here. Someone's hiding something. And who's hiding? Well, there's no one else to hide but one who's in power, so I'm not hiding? Right? The one itch hides and secretes the documents as it recalls. He can get into all the courts, all the archives, take out, write about himself history that he's St. Francis, and maybe he's got bloody hands to his shoulder. That's what you do and it's a big problem for these countries. By the time the truth is known, we can't be able to heal as a society, and by now I'm going to have to tell the debates about ideological conflicts, left, right panels, and I don't know what. This problem can only solve the only profession, archival profession, historical and numerous other social sciences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69689	The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS is a debate from fellow Members of Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69690	I would like to thank the Vice President, the honorary ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support this bill first reading. First of all, what is the very purpose of this law even though we are talking about archival material and archives, somehow they cannot be taken away from the impression that it is the future, the future of all those who, from this day forward, will study the facts here, the events of these times that follow us as part of history. In fact, it is prescribed that the very purpose of this law is to preserve public and documented and archive material, of course and for all let's say the bodies of the public authorities are to prescribe a way of saving, especially when we talk about modern technologies, and that is what actually enables us to do exactly what I said that in one 30, 40 years we have clearly systemically and systematically all possible structures that matter whether even what this same law introduces and the private existing now and all future to systemize and bring it in. So it's a law that even though there's a history in its name, it's actually talking about what we're going to call the present, what ours, the ones who... to look at yourself and have the most information and bring the courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, what I can certainly say as a positive thing is that citizens themselves are available to the public from the moment of creation unless it is classified. I don't think it's anything new, that every country has such a system depending on the three laws that are listed and the Law on the right to access information, but certainly the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, and therefore the Law on Secrecy. So we also need to know as a state to safeguard both our dignity and our national security. I don't think that should be controversial. Of course, what I will certainly have in this presentation is just a few articles of some nomotechnically some enquiries, through what we think might be a little bit explained. But surely this law is actually trying to, or will ensure the creation, preservation and conversion of documentary and archival material into digital form, and that is the famous digitisation that we all talk about, so that which we have here, which we need to accept absolutely and which we need to bring in our colleague Bunjac is now talking about microfilms, so all of which digitize everything that was not before, but forget everything that is now. And that's actually the most important thing in this law, that all that comes now is to regulate both deadlines and procedures and ways that the bodies of the public authorities, and that's where they are mentioned, are also handed over to the competent archives of certain buildings and all that is estimated to be important. What I would certainly mention first of all is an article like this and several articles. Article 8(2) where it states that the public authority is obliged to ensure the integrity of the public-documentary material, and in correcting and adding data to which natural and legal persons are entitled under other rules, etc. It should also be given the reason for the correction, i.e. the addition of data if it is written to go into a reliable and ex post insight that is corrected. It's enough to see the reason for that add-on, it wouldn't hurt. Furthermore, Article 12, which tells us that the body which adopts the act on the termination of the work of the creators or holders of the documentary and archive material, is obliged to designate another body of public authority or legal person as the owner of that material or to decide on the provision of conditions from the storage and protection of materials in accordance with the law. In fact, we believe that it is unscheduled or does not contain provisions in the event that a person does not want to or refuse to accept that material, that means the one to which it is transferred. There's no talking about costs about whether or not there are any conditions. And also, what if the material maker stops without making a decision means a little bit of a clear little clarification. Next article 16 that tells us about audiovisual works and producers. Namely, there is an obligation that within 12 months the producer must submit a copy to the Croatian State Archives, etc., documentation, script and recording books and everything else. It's not like it's not gonna sound like let's just say it's not normal, but what if that producer doesn't exist or stopped exist or that person might not be among us anymore. So on the other hand, that they are being punished, or possibly not in the process of this material because of the circumstances that occurred, someone took the third, failed, alienated, etc. A little bit of that to also explain that for objective reasons not all are punished in order to take matters into account. So, as far as this deadline is concerned, the availability in Article 17 should, of course, be as much available material as possible, and we are absolutely in favour of making everything possible and that does not bear any markings of secrecy possible. That's why we welcome it. Article 19(2), which speaks of personal data, means the same as that which speaks of human rights violations, means the personal data of the person who acted publicly by 30 May 90 and was a member or associate of the Security Service by participating in the violation and restriction of human rights and fundamental freedoms of third parties, shall be made available without restriction as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Of course, there's now a question of how to prove just that violation. Whether a court decision is required or not is defined, whether it can only insert the word ‘proved by a judicial power decision or by some other means of proof’. In my opinion, it's absolutely a court case, because it opens up here the possibility that these people are contesting it through court and, of course, what's more important is what they get. Here, as far as Article 22 is concerned, I find it somewhat unclear for private owners of the archive building whether, if the owner himself is not aware or not, and we have this especially during history, that he is in possession of an archival building. They are imposed on them by obligations that sanction them, and there is no question of consciousness, whether or not the person knew that there was something that was an archival value. Thus, in Article 22, their obligations are prescribed as to how and in what way they must be provided, delivered, etc. Finally, Article 42 relating to the composition of the Expert Council. There are some minimum conditions where, as far as I understand it, some professional study is therefore higher or professional council of archives higher or higher. I would like to add this article in paragraph 42.3. whether “and persons who have 15 years or more of experience working in archival affairs, ” so we probably have people with medium professional training who are extremely familiar or professional because they have more experience than someone who has left school with a degree today or yesterday. So you can open up space here to allow 15 years or 20 years of work experience on exactly these jobs. Well, I think their contribution would be important, too. Here's really to the end, I think, once again we'll accept at the HNS Club and that all that really commits us to the future is absolute and to welcome and that is also the meaning of this law that everything from today and from the adoption and all that is present when history becomes clearly transparent, available to everyone and that is precisely the very meaning of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69691	We have two replicas at the exhibition of fellow Currays. The first one's a colleague of Lenart's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69692	Thank you, dear Vice President. As for archival construction, archive stories, data already that and the sparrows on the branch know we'll never see what they might want to say. Here's a colleague of Bunjac's said I'll look for some things, that he could never get it. Since we are neither state property nor able to sign that we know exactly what we have, we will never solve that archival structure either. Unfortunately, there are data that are obviously dangerous for some people who are close to the authorities or in power no matter what, and it is simply something that hides very well. People look at it with a laugh when we're discussing it and knowing there's nothing we can do about it again. On the other hand, our archival structure is collapsing because there's no money or experts who can clean it up the way they should and how the whole apathy in society is slowly governmental, so is the situation in this. I was funny this morning because a gentleman told me that there are four ways out of the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. He says: “The first is a bus station. The other one's a railroad. The third is the airport and the fourth is its own transport." So is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69693	Thank you. The replica of my colleague Shuker Ivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69694	Thank you very much. I'm interested in the fact that you're thinking and thinking about the provision of the law where a person who thinks she's been persecuted, that she's a victim might ask that you actually ban the publication of that archive for the reason that today in some discussions here it was intended to interpret it in some other way. Because unfortunately, if we use the victim's archives, then a lot of people can abuse it, but under cover to hide something. Now you obviously have something left in the air that hangs from this entire morning's debate. So, a colleague of Shuraj, based on his debate with counterpart Hasanbegovic. Why? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A year. So, I think this should be clearly defined not to open up here various possibilities for various political and political machinations, which, unfortunately, is here this morning in the House and heard from certain people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69695	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69696	I agree with my colleague Shuker first of all that the more things we make available we certainly have more opportunities to know where we were and where we were going, but of course on a prose example like you said. Absolutely, personal data protection. They happened if we only watched during the war such a horror. And of course there were also really things that were very difficult to say and that it was especially when we look at certain acts and war crimes against women and rapes that certainly some things absolutely fall under the protection of personal data. Well, you can't read people's names in public, and tomorrow, maybe the child that came through, or the rape act looks at it in the paper, might not even be aware of it. It is the purpose of personal protection to be given to these worst and other things that therefore we have three laws that speak both about the protection of personal data and the Law on the right to access information where it is certain that the right of the public to know what it is and, of course, the Law on Classified Information itself, or to keep state secrets. And there's always this balance that's actually the most important way to balance it because none of the extremes are good, never at anything, not even her. You see, everything is being stolen, of course we are to make everything available, but it can't always be because of this, let's just say one example. And it's also no good to close it all down for 100 years. There's nothing to talk about, it can't be a taboo topic, but it can be if it's a violation of a personal right to dignity, then of course we can't talk about that kind of thing clearly being used somewhere in someone's personal matter. So there's always a balance, and we have to respect that balance, and I think this law is working in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69697	Thank you. We continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives independent of Croatia, colleague Zlatko Hasanbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69698	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers, MPs and MPs. We're a little pissed off, back to square one, and then we're gonna hit the core. The proposer of this law, the Ministry of Culture and the Government of HDZ, HNS, SDSS and associated partners, presented the proposal with a reason to achieve among other objectives and the opening of public archive material produced during the SRH period, the SFRY, with a special emphasis that the proposal of this law, I quote, opens the files of the Uboba without restriction. The letter and spirit of this law represent not only that but all other publicly declared goals. On the contrary, it is clear from the fact that the action in the invisible anti-lustration legal corners is a well-designed attempt to re-close archives that are largely open to the effect of amending the archival law adopted in this House less than a year ago and the votes of HDZ representatives. Any debate on this counter-lustration-inspired legislative proposal should begin with the following facts of the applicable archival law. Article 21a is replaced by the following: The legal declassification of the entire archive material produced by 22 December 1990 was carried out, and it was almost entirely brought to the attention of the scientific expert and general public. The existing law also lays down provisions which recognise the victims of the communist regime the right to request and conceal their identity in public archive material by the time the deadlines for regular availability are up until the expiry of the deadlines and to deny, by a special declaration, information relating to their person. This possibility, as many as I know of thousands of potential users, was used only by our former Parliament colleague Vladimir Seks, although colleagues made it possible for Shaks to do so in a problematic way by not implementing so-called. selective anonymity already by denying all interested users insights into his file as such, why there is no statutes in the law. Furthermore, the existing law specifically stipulates that the right to conceal and protect personal data does not exist persons who until 22 December 1990 were officials or employees of the tax authorities and organisations of the communist system. Not just security services. Therefore, from MPs in the Assembly, the SRH through secretariat officials and various committees, prosecutors, defenders, martial parties and youth organisations, more specifically, the entire state-run-party apparatus at all levels as such. In other words, the existing law correctly recognises that the violation of fundamental human rights was not limited exclusively to the communist security system, but to the overall communist administrative and state-party apparatus and each of its individual parts without exception, possibly and the most important provisions of the existing law, are the transitional provisions contained in Article 14 which prescribes the duty of all bodies holding archive material until 22 December 1990 to write it and, unfortunately, to submit it to state archives within a specific time period and which is not today done including, of course, transposition, but also to list, of course, independent of the fact that it is known that one part of the archive material by 1990 is systematically but also, unfortunately, and subsequently destroyed or alienated. This provision, in this form, of course, disappeared under the cover of a lack of financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic fact is that the archives are open on 20 May 2017, so that someone additionally complete opening of the archives from the Government's arguments is simply not possible, but rather the opposite. This government and its Ministry of Culture want to shut down once again, without precedent from Baltic to the Adriatic Sea, with the help of the parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, who less than a year ago, up to a new directive from the Ban Courts, more specifically from the invisible legal-political anti-lustration coteries raised their hands to open these same archives. All the above, there's more. More specifically, the existing legal situation is the only possible vision from which to observe and evaluate this anti-lustration cowardly egg from the proposal for a new archival law. In particular, this legislative proposal over several uninvited laymen at first sight of irrelevant but also skillfully, very cleverly designed changes cancels the whole meaning of the so far applicable regulatory and significantly restricts the availability of public archive material. For example, Article 19(1) proposes to shorten the period covered by the special regime from 22 December 1990 to 30 May 1990. This automatically becomes an inaccessible part of the material related to the crucial period immediately after the first democratic elections when the SRH still officially exists within the SFRY, and the SFRJ and SRH constitution remain in force for a while. During that critical period, there is a handover of authorities and a questionable so-called "doubt". The pseudo transition from the communist system to the multilateral system formally ended with the adoption of the "Christmas Constitution". Furthermore, Article 17(5) significantly restricts the availability of public archive material containing classified information when it is prescribed that I quote public archive material containing classified and other classified information. Therefore, this is the key word of other classified information available at the end of the 40-year period from the beginning only with the preceding declassification procedure if the other law does not specify otherwise. This shows that it is introduced in addition to the logical and legally defined concept of classified data and the concept of so-called “. ” other classified information which, due to the absence of any definition in this or any other law, anyone may interpret fully arbitraryly and thereby limit the availability of any part of the public archive material both before and after the expiry of the 40-year period. In addition, since the availability after the expiry of 40 years is conditioned by the previous declassification by the designer of the material, and the obligation of the creator to carry out a declassification within a certain period is not prescribed by this or by any other law within 40 years only by orientation. In reality, it can also be 100 and 200 or more years, which means never what the ultimate intention of an invisible anti-lustration legal-political creator of this law means, especially after the deadlines for material expire after 1990. Thus, by the provision described, the bill promoter, in fact, proposes to the Croatian Parliament to fully waive its constitutional competence to adopt laws in the field of archival activity and to transfer its constitutional jurisdiction to the authorities of the executive authority and other persons who create public archive material, all by modelling the infamous censorship commission for the collection of archive material, etc. the special national interest of Milanovic's lex Perkovic Government. Among other things, in the post of protection of the Libyan neo-Communist deep state whose only visible heads are now sitting in a German penitentiary. I further draw particular attention to Article 19(2), which is exempt from the protection of personal data contrary to the entire communist state apparatus from the existing law only to those acting in public duty and at the same time being a member or a co-worker of the Security Service. If it is to believe the reasons given by the Ministry of Culture in the public working group that participated in the writing of this law does not differ from the divorceal allies in the Croatian language, the result is that the proposed provision achieves a completely opposite effect from the publicly declared alleged intention. It is possible to interpret from that language lock that only those public officials who were members or co-workers of the security service are excluded from the protection of personal data. Such a formulation would exclude the protection of personal data which we have already heard only two professional members of the RSUP SRH SRH, namely Deputy and Assistant Secretary of Internal Affairs, who were the only people in the system who were also public officials and members of official security. The paradox is that even the secretary of the federal SUP would, for example, The notorized Stane Dolanc, under the text of the proposed law, was entitled to the protection of personal data because he was neither a formal employee of the State Security Service but a federal SUP. The literal application of this provision would lead, as it is written, to the fact that a number of public officials outside the service of the security of that time that has been formally identified as an associate of the Security Service could still be excluded from the circle of persons whose identity is protected. Finally, it should be pointed out that the protection of personal data of persons who did not participate in human rights violations has been placed in a completely unclear and in an inexecutible manner. In practice, there is only one way to distinguish victims and persons who are accidentally affected by human rights violations that were among those involved in such violations, with the fact that many people at the same or different times were victims and perpetrators. Unfortunately, this way in theory and practice is called censorship and implies a body that will examine public archival material before researchers, and then based entirely on discretionary criteria before conducting scientific or other deep research of the materials will decide whose data from the materials will be removed before the materials are given for use. In this respect, the proposal for a law is contrary to the prohibition of censorship referred to in Article 38(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, my question to the Government and the Ministry of Culture reads: “Lords and ladies, why in 2018, almost 3 decades after the fall of the Berlin Wall and less than a year after the opening of the archives, are you closing it again? Why are you taking over as the guardian of the Yugoslav communist state-party secrets? What colleagues do you want to protect from this anti-lustration law and who among you have problems with their own past?" Dear HDZ colleagues why? Why are you taking over Mr. Bacic's mortgage and the role of the assembly's extended hand against the lustrational deep state at the moment you finally figured out that every lustration we've heard should begin with lustration in the HDZ itself? Here's a chance for you to start an internal lustration procedure. Send this irreparable and fatal proposal where it belongs in the recycling site of old paper in the halls of the Ministry of Culture at Runjanin Street No. 2. In addition, the SDP lady if she has you here, by rejecting this law you have a symbolic opportunity to start strategic cooperation with the HDZ that has been announced and which we look forward to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69699	Thank you. We have 10 replicas at the exhibition of colleagues, Hasanbegovic. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69700	Thank you very much. Representative Hasanbegovic, first of all, I would like to commend this debate of yours because you have demystified certain articles, many pranks. In fact, the crucial moment of your debate over all these little things that you said were studio-made not by chance in the articles, is basically the law that closes the archives. We at the moment, you confirmed it in your debate, we have a law on archives where archives are opened. This is a lex colleague who's allowed everything in the current law until 30. 12. It's open in 1990. Now they've cut the time, so they've closed that part of the archive. And in your debate it's obvious that this is simply the best paper and document for the recycling yard or to put it where it belongs in the halls of the Ministry of Culture and to investigate. And my proposal was and I agree with you that it would be best and correct to withdraw the Archive Act, because this is the law on closing the archives. If they had called it the law to close the archives then it would have been acceptable to a lex colleague. However, we have a law on archives where archives are open. There's only that much. Do you agree or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69701	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69702	Thank you. Of course I agree that it is an incorrigible, irreparable legal proposal with possible fatal consequences. We've only opened one question here, the question of the availability of archive material. Here we have another question, digitization and even procedures. This is a special topic for individual debates. I couldn't even touch that because of the lack of time, which has even more fatal consequences. In the background were self-called well-invited to the archival activity and its problems, so-called. digital lumens, which actually have nothing to do with real archival life and the need of researchers, historians who use this archival structure. In other words, I've called it before. However, I also received certain assurances from some of my colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community that this proposal will never appear before the Croatian Assembly, that it is a tactical maneuver, that it will also be treated as so-called. The Istanbul Convention. That's what happened last week. Suddenly, an invisible hand ordered him to be on the agenda for months. Why? Why isn't there a HDZ representative here today? Why isn't there my colleague Kovac, my colleague Stier and many others? Because many don't want to be a fig leaf here and fill the replica quota. which was prescribed by the party president at the consultations. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69703	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69704	My colleague Hasanbegovic, since you mentioned Mr. Seks' name, I am specifically obliged to say what I know about the protection of his file. Mr. Shex is preparing a book where he will issue a complete UDBA file on himself since the first document in the 1960s, or '71s. It was until the '90s. So that's why he put some kind of a restraining order on his record. And he's not the only one, and I went to the State Archives and went through the paperwork at the State Archives and found four files from my family's ropes. So, father, mother and four of us six UDBA files. I also put a restraining order on that and the possibility of seeing others into my UDBA file. I'm not an associate of the UDBA, and I can also say since I've known Mr. Seks for many, many years, much more than we all do together, that Mr. Vladimir Seks was never an associate of the UDBA. He was an assistant or deputy district attorney in Vinkovci in 1971 and then had the courage to apply for criminal charges against the State Security Service for opening mails, letters, postal e-mails that came from abroad temporarily to the families of temporary workers, so-called temporary workers. temporary work abroad either worked to the death or to a deep pension like my father.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69705	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69706	Agent Glavas, whether or not Mr. Shakespeare was what is called a UDBA co-worker is not at all the subject of my interest. The funds are not just files in the Croatian State Archives. It's about public archive material. I'm glad Mr. Shakespeare discovered a writing nerve in retirement. When I wrote my books, I used dozens of archive funds, but at no time could I forbid all other citizens to use those same funds until I wrote and published the book. So it's completely irrelevant what he wants from us. The existing law clearly states that a person who is considered a victim, whose file exists, can carry out an anonymous analysis of that file of all data related to him. Everything else remains publicly and remains publicly available material. And every ban on using your record of anyone's is against the law. It's illegal. There's a lot of other data in your file or anyone but that person. In other words, let's get out of specific cases. We speak in principle, and when we speak in principle, everyone will be recognized individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69707	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69708	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hasanbegovic, your commentary and the debate on this law, reminded me of a proverb that the written book has a thousand remarks, and it is not written, there is only one, and that is that it is not written. As a minister, you've had the opportunity to write this bill, so maybe someone else would be latets like you're doing in this law now, and you're as short as you were, you haven't started the procedure of writing this law. So this term of office is exactly the unwritten book on which I have only one remark, which is that you didn't start writing that law. As for Mr. Shakespeare, that's just before Mr. Glavas... The same thing he told you, which is that when he was 29 years old, Mr. Shakespeare filed a criminal complaint against the federal and republican chief of UDBA for discovering that the UDBA in Slavonia had opened thousands of letters from our emigrants. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] And then he was kicked out of the service, and after he ended up in prison in 1971, he was banned from law enforcement. Therefore, if you don’t think, or sound logic does not tell you, that in such a way UDBA would not protect its associates. In fact, because he was one of the enemies of the 1st system, he ended up as he ended up and could not be hired as a lawyer until the 1990s. So when you talk about it, I would ask you to read a little bit better and get to know everything you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69709	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69710	Mr. Bačić, therefore, thank you for the lesson in Mr. Vladimir Shakespeare's rich résumé, your colleague and colleague. But at no point did I talk about it at all, I just reminded myself that out of the many thousands of potential interested in carrying out my file anonymously, I then reached out exclusively to Mr. Shakespeare in my court in an illegal manner. One of the reasons why I decided my party at the time was lustrated from the place of the Minister of Culture is among other things the archival law, and about what I was doing and what I thought you could read about it in the existing law. I modestly, too, made a significant, or less significant contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69711	Thank you. Here's your next replica of my colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69712	Dear Representative Hasanbegovic, I have listened to your presentations and you are mainly accusing your fellow HDZ colleagues of hiding the truth yesterday, or you have said that they are turning into party secretaries. However, they have been guards of party secrets all these years and you have been with them at HDZ. And not only were you in HDZ, you voted the government that was actually in the coalition with the SDSS and you know it yourself. And now what's going on? You're accusing HDZ of this, HDZ of what, so did you vote for that government to survive? Did you vote in favour of Minister Zdravko Maric? Well, ladies and gentlemen! And now what's going on? You're saying that I was wrong. You were wrong. And what are you still doing in the City Hall of Zagreb? You're in a coalition with the same HDZ. What did you do? After the local elections, you actually just changed, you kept the same coalition partner from a national level to a local one. And then you made a proposal to move away from the bust of Eva Lola Ribara, the HDZ rejected your proposal, remains its bust. But you're still in coalition with HDZ. Are you talking about principles? What principles? You have no principle, Mr Hasanbegovic, because supporting HDZ and their survival in power does not only mean continuing to keep party secrets from them but it means participating in a crime against the Croatian people primarily economically. Because this economic policy is much more devastating, unfortunately for our people than the Communist Party's politics. You can see that by all demographic indicators, from the number of children born, married, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69713	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69714	Dear Mr. Pernar, as my associate General Glasnović would say, not to mention my colleague. Don't say it on my behalf. You quoted me as wrong. I didn't make a mistake, I didn't say once that I was wrong or voted for this government, I suggest you reach out to the records and see who makes this parliamentary majority. That, that the permanent elements of the Croatian Democratic Community have indeed been for many years for various reasons, it is a serious issue that cannot be discussed for this kind of pay phone, brought the party to the position of the party secretaries, yes, it is also known when it seemed to be changing by a set of certain circumstances I also found myself there in the spirit of those principles that I represented and acted accordingly. Unlike you who were a pioneer of the Croatian Democratic Community, when someone who was extremely young and at the age when a young man should be in conflict with authority, there was not me in general since primary school uncompromised with youth activists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69715	Next replica of his colleague Glasnović Zeljko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69716	Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, like this, I see this debate we are spinning around and we are not solving key issues. I would say, according to your statement, that the largest criminal organization in Croatia has been amnested in the history of not only Southeast Europe but west of the Urals outside the Soviet Union, which is the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. There are heads sitting here who are also part of that project, to hide,.... Class genocide and robbery and why we're where we are. It's been nonstop... in the media. That's what you're saying. You're a social leper. Here's why this is happening is that mental set we're talking about all the time. Bones don't lie, robbery doesn't lie. Here's why you doubt the files? Here I have one file in my hand, and now, like this, the man was an associate, a questionnaire, a State Security Service, a teacher, a Faculty of Philosophy, what does it say, individual traits, careful and conspiracies. The other side, why did you hire him? Patriotism, he insulted Yugoslavia, in all of them is little Tito, they're everywhere in the Parliament. What? The enemy activity that followed this Croatian nationalism. Here, who followed him by one of the friars? Type of associate informant, reliable. It's all black in white, here. While other countries have spent these lustrations of all but Croatia and Slovenia where the government of the old... we tap in place, and this is not just a question of the humane issue of lustration, but the return of property, destroyed lives, the return of Croats outside the country whether they will come back to Croatia and not to Yugoslavia. Here's the Czech Republic, they opened 400,000 files in Germany where you can look at your file who followed you. And what's here? Nothing. Absolute zero.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69717	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69718	Thank you, General Glasnović. What do you say? I'm signing everything you said. I sign everything you say no matter what you say. That's notorious truth. These are the fundamental truths that populous circles want to trivialize, and advocates and promoters of fundamental truths to estradize and declare out of freaks. As always, everything you said, for everything you said, I can only say you took the word out of my mouth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69719	We're moving on. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69720	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Hasanbegovic, from your presentation and what you said, I personally feel the same way about opening an UDBA archive. I know it's hard, and we all see that we have opponents here together. We also have those who want it closed. We want it to open. We need to know once, our generations need to know what happened in 45 to 90 years. Of course, we had Croats who were also 71s who rose up against all the things they must have seen from a closer point of view that wasn't right. Let us remember how many children cried and mothers who were taken to prison by their children or fathers, who slaved for their own thoughts that said something was wrong. It's a shame today after 60 years that we here are discussing the people who killed. There were Uboshes who didn't commit crimes that needed to be sanctioned in another way so they wouldn't be involved in politics. But those who have done evil and who are the masses of our people suffered in that 45 to 90, and we want to protect it, and we want here clearly, never, we need to be clear and we need to start bringing the truth to this people and telling them what happened. I don't want my grandchildren and my children to be able to read about everything, unfortunately, and you're a doctor, or you all history doctors don't know Croatia's history from 45th to 90th because you couldn't get into the archives, you shouldn't have talked about it. You don't actually know. It's like a chemist doesn't know anything about water. Therefore, it is embarrassing that you cannot get it and that this nation cannot read what is to be read. I hope this law has to be opened by UDBA, the UDBA law, and we all need to know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69721	Here's the answer to the line. Comrade Bulj, colleague Bulj, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69722	Dear Mr. Misic, whether or not they know the history of history of historical sciences can be discussed. There's a large number they probably don't know. But I can only tell you one thing. So we don't need to split up. Don't bicker and whine so I can say of a harsh fate. Your homework is simple. You have a way to calm your conscience and come calmly to your grandchildren. So when you vote for this bill's proposal, just be against it, save us what we have, and these are open archives. And believe me, Mr. Plenkovic won't be mad at you. He'll be angry for a few days, but then he'll realize that your hand is still more important than a simple archival law and "wolve sieve, sheep in number".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69723	Thank you. We're moving on. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69724	Dear counterpart Hasanbegovic, in my debate, I touched on some of the problems you raised, but I was more concerned with some other issues. What I find controversial and, if I understand correctly, the 2017 Law clearly recognized that human first infringements during the former regime were not limited to security services, and that is why our proposal stated that "persons who co-operated in human rights violations with some of the bodies" which are prescribed in this law, and on the other hand, this proposal speaks of security service associates. If so, I conclude that according to this proposal, some of the officials of that regime would be entitled to the protection of personal data. Is this how you understood this bill or did I get it right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69725	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69726	Taxation of the institution covered by this law and when we discussed and cooperated if you wanted to draft that law, I was inclined to extend that list. But then concessions were made to my party, and it gave up some solutions that should not have been given up, and that list should have been further extended, especially to institutions such as universities and education systems. Therefore, the term "public official" who was excluded from this should also have been applied to journalists. What was then called socio-political workers and all teachers of all universities from the level of the doctor to the regular university professor. Now we have one pietian formula in which we don't know the separate and complicity and, or, or, a public official who must both. Well, that's impossible. So you can't prove that someone was also an associate. You can't, so that's impossible. There are no public records of associates here. Already today, people are laminate, not all of them, but a good number to ask them where the Croatian National Archives building is located in Zagreb they do not know. So here's suddenly the flood of archival experts. In other words, in order for you to determine who he was, you must without restriction get insight into the archive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69727	Next replica of my colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69728	Thank you. I thank the chairman. Dear Representative Hasanbegovic, I must first commend the debate because it was very constructive, professional. She pointed out the shortcomings and certain things that need to be corrected in this law. Besides, as you said yourself, as we said before, the law is unfortunately irreparable. But before I ask you one question, I'm interested in part of your replica of this exhibit that you've only had. I have to comment on a bit of a strange situation, I guess the representatives or colleagues from HDZ won't get angry. But this little situation is weird to me today. You were led by their hand as a right-wing bat in the parliamentary elections. At that time, they were a pillar of patriotism that called for lustration. You've been gathering voices for them. In today's situation, it is they who defend patriotism and lustration. You're no longer on their team, because you've just called for this lustration and you've worked on that part and you're ignorant. They're patriotic, and you're ignorant. But what I need to ask you now is based on what you've brought out and through your exposure and through your replicas, you've touched one important thing. It is called the digitisation of archives or archive materials, where the possibility of destroying archive material is mentioned. And that's precisely what it says is that this law allows the possibility of destroying archival material. I don't know if I can understand at all what a danger it is for us to become a society of copies, scans and facsimiles at this point. 'Cause anyway, why don't we break that Bastian record, just take a picture of it. She's taking up our space, which is why we need her more. We'll take a picture of her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69729	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69730	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. About my political position, so history is made up of paradoxes. They're paradoxes, but history is developing. I used to raise votes for Mr. Bačić, now I'm in a political life and I'm collecting votes for myself. So, speaking of destroying and that's a special subject and this isn't the place at all. In public, we will consider that part of the archive law further. Therefore, by carefully reading the provisions of the bill's proposal, it can be assumed that there is an intention to destroy the original public archive material after the digitisation and download of the relevant archives has been carried out. This premonition stemming from the bill was also confirmed by the Ministry of Culture in its press release, and I quote: "The proposal for a law creates assumptions that a number of economic stakeholders" is otherwise the favorite bureaucratic word in state services and public services "are no longer obliged to keep all extensive documents in paper form. Since the draft law does not contain any single criterion when and what of the original public documentary and archive material may and may destroy, and taught by the experience that our archives lack the entire '45 funds. '90s. So we and everyone here should be determined against any destruction of the original archive material. Simply following the logic of the bureaucrats and the officials who were supplementing this law, we could imagine indeed a proposal to create a credible 3D scan of the Bascan tablet, and then calmly allow the destruction of the original.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69731	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. In fact, counterpart Hasanbegovic claims that he was collecting votes for me. As far as I know, he's not such an altruist that he would do anything for anyone but himself, nor would he raise votes for me, but only for himself. So I had to point out here as a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69733	Okay, we don't have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with the replicas. The next replica is from counterpart Boris Josip.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69734	Thank you very much. I tried to understand your debate carefully and then I determined the following, and you correct me in your answer if you do not. You've been a minister for a year, and you haven't even tried to open the archives, so you haven't done anything. You didn't even set up a task force to open the issue, and then you found that the minister who did something and proposed the law actually has a hundred fels that don't work. So that's the starting position. Then the next position is that everyone who does something actually has no idea because there's only one and the first state archiveman, and that's you, and nobody else can say anything about it. Maybe it can survive, too. Furthermore, you said this is a law that is worse than the existing changes from the 5th month last year, although I also asked the minister and said that this law contains these changes and extends certain things. Well, it doesn't make sense to me that something that's good and it opens up, if it's standing in this law, it's not good and it closes the archives. That doesn't make any sense to me. Next, you are independent of Croatia and I do not understand why it bothers you 30.5. The '90s? Well, that's the day the first multiparty assembly was established. So we're running away from that time and we're leaving that time to the non-democratic regimes, and we want it to be the 12th month of the '90s. So why are we running from the beginning of our country? Why does that bother us, what are the reasons? Are we going to even that? Shall we? So say, we want to even it out and say everyone who sat here, who brought it, and that constitution is guilty because they were 30.5., but they're not guilty because they were 22. Here's 12. So let's be realistic, let's say what it is. But this anger of yours on both HDZ and the minister is not about this law and you must do the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69735	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69736	Dear Mr. Boric, I am pleased that today you were on the opportunity of working time to be interested in this problem, which you didn't know anything about until now, but to paraphrasise Starcevic, you didn't even hear about the one who would know anything about it. What I've been doing, as laws are being passed, as long as I've been minister of this place, there's really no reason for you to account for it. If you're already asking me about May 30, 1990, Mr. Boric, we are not discussing the State Holidays Act but concrete deadlines for the availability of archive material. Yes, I, contrary to party ideology on June 22nd as the supposed important day for Croatian history, always pointed out May 30th as a symbolic zero year. So on Monday, I will put the state holidays law in the procedure on Monday, suggest that 30 May 1990 be the only day of statehood and the day of independence. Mr. Boric, will you, without a party order, raise your hand to that law? Will you? You now have a parliamentary majority when you swear to return in May 30, 1990, return it as a state holiday and with the help of those who now hold your ladder and form power, they annulled that national holiday with you in 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69737	Thank you, colleague Hasanbegovic, thank you. And the last replica of counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69738	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Hasanbegovic, was asked to read that you wrote the first draft law of this law even though the Bridge boasts and that is their bill of law. I don't know if that's true, but it was read from what you were saying. Secondly, it was good to hear and see your disputation of this bill and I have nothing to do with this first reading, and I believe that both the Proposer and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will see certain things that may or should change. On the other hand, I also believe that both the professional and scientific public will, after your presentation, discuss these things and perhaps they will be involved in this public debate until the second reading. What concerns me, and with you, you were the Minister of Culture, and you yourself know that this law on archival materials and archives and what you're now talking about about these files may not have been meant to be found in this bill, it might be better to pass some law that regulates such things. This is the least we're talking about metrics, the content of this law. As far as the State Security Service files are concerned, there have been as many as 60 grand of them here today, but there are mostly victims, but there are no ones who have persecuted them. What concerns me more is the principle of ethics and finally that there should be knowledge of truth, not any compromise and labelling that we often claim, and I'm sorry that you're listing colleagues whom you didn't say here that you didn't want to be a fig leaf, counted us here as we are. And I mean it's not yours, it shouldn't be your level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69739	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69740	So let's be specific. The existing Law, the existing legal state, therefore, changes to the Law that entered into force in May 2017, is Mostov. So that's Mostt's proposal. I strongly supported this proposal beyond any influence, will or knowledge of my party at the time. Yes, I cooperated in the creation of that proposal. And if you were very interested that it was my proposal it would have been much wider than it was and personally wouldn't have given any concessions to permanent circles in the then government that had to be given, unfortunately, but if it was the price to get a solution that was better than the existing one should have been paid. So, as for your hope that something will change after the professional public and so on, I guarantee you, nothing will change. Because these disputed parts haven't been found by accident. They weren't written by some clerks and bureaucrats at the Ministry of Culture. These parts were written by precisely chosen people who knew what to write and in what way to derogate all the supporting provisions of the existing law for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69741	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next debate is on behalf of HDS Representative HSLS HDSSB's club from counterpart Darinka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69742	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Minister of Culture and Parliamentary Representatives. I'll be very brief. I'll use one-third of my time. I want to get back to the very beginning, so there somewhere eight and a half months ago, we had here on the benches a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I want to stress that, because this is about the Bridge proposal. For me as a parliamentary representative at that time was the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia independently which party initiated the proposal, because then other laws could be named after other political parties. Then our club, and we have four representatives at the club and we consulted before this debate, and on behalf of the club supported the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but which was initiated by the Mosta. We have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which supports this proposal. So, what I'm essentially trying to say here is, our Club of Representatives doesn't vote for laws, and you know that we've already been against some laws several times, even though we're part of the majority because we're proposed by a party, but because we either believe or don't believe in those laws. For our Club of Representatives and myself, the proposal we voted here eight, nine months ago was a good proposal and you've brought us into a very awkward position now as parliamentary representatives. I don't know if the other MPs, but the representatives of our club. I am starting from politicians voting with convictions, not just by the orders of our clubs, that we have supported something that only after 8 or 9 months should we accept changes to what we have supported. It's not until the end of what I heard earlier that everything that was written in the amendments and the addition that is now in the bill. The very fine shades of what was written there are now changing. I just want to point out some things if there is going to be another reading, so we have an extension of the government of the Republic of Croatia. I think it is not good that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also being brought into these situations that it is arbitration in certain matters and I think that these addendums that exist on classified information, on other data of national interest, and I can thus call them "rubbery articles", "rubbery sentences" leave room for anything that anyone wants to assess that it cannot be publicly classified in such a way and can then not be publicly available. The amendments and additions that were made eight, nine months ago made it very clear and accurate as to what is of national interest and point. So there wasn't this rubber ending. It would be good for a second reading if there was another reading of this law and it stays that way. These are our fundamental grudges and the very proposal. It's this uncomfortable position that we were brought into because we voted out of conviction for something that was brought in eight months ago. I don't see in public space except for one case that anything historic is happening, even though the archives are available. I don't see anyone being the victim of what archives are available. And even if the victims, the victims of what the archives were available, anyone who wanted to make an insight into the archives had a situation to do so in the eight months. And there's still until the law is passed. So I think the proposal itself thinks that it won't in itself maybe if it was adopted to make some big changes, but it makes some impression that we here in the Croatian Parliament have brought something in one past time that we have freed our availability in the archive, and now we want to close it. To me as a parliamentary representative is very uncomfortable in that position and all the members of our club are uncomfortable in that position. I also want to look back on this date change. As far as I'm concerned, is that 22? 12, is that 30. 05th or some third date almost doesn't matter to me. For if we go about the fact that all those who have pure cheeks have nothing to hide, then in my opinion no date is asked. There's been a lot of debate here about 30. 05. Yes, it's the beginning of Croatian statehood. But we are talking about that very beginning of Croatian statehood is not Statehood Day in the Republic of Croatia, but that it is Croatian Parliament Day. We now have most in the Croatian Parliament. Now, first of all, I am speaking to the representatives of the majority, so I don't see why someone in the opposition would suggest that they make such proposals in the parliamentary procedure. It's up to us as a majority if we consider 30. 05th and here's no Dr. Tudjman here that this is the most important date, then I think that the most important date comes from having its own consequences, and that is that it is also the Day of Statehood of the Republic of Croatia. And that opens up some other questions. If there's anything hidden about that date, I'd like to make it clear. Always after a month, two or three are revealed what the right initiative is to change a date or a law, or an article of the law. It would be very bad for us in the Croatian Parliament, and even for those greatest dates in our history to reveal some other reasons why this movement has now taken place. I'm going back to the beginning of my debate and I'm going to end it. So, nine months ago, the HDS Representatives' Club of HSLS and HDSSB gave us four representatives consciously supported the proposal that came from both the Most and was confirmed by the Croatian government and we received the Croatian Government's opinion and it is very difficult for us to change our opinion now on what is in this law... So in this first reading, we express our restraint over this proposal. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69743	Thank you. We have two replicas. The replica of my colleague, Bozo Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69744	Thank you. My fellow representative, first of all, I must commend the way in which you explained your vision of this amendment to the law. I'll just say for a little while here, here's what I don't think it matters in any way. It's important that in the end the law is quality. The bridge of independent lists has sent this law into the procedure. We were part of the ruling majority back then. At that time, the government gave its opinion just as it did on any bill it would accept or not accept. But the point is what you said. Please answer people why you're changing the law that you supported eight, nine months ago and which has proved to be working, that people can go to the archive today, they can get the documentation, they can see it? Well, Mr. Glavas said he'd gone, asked for his family members and he'd won. I'm wondering if you could get that maybe eight or nine months ago. Did anyone today try to extract statistics on how many people in the last eight months since they found out that the open archives went there, got documentation, and how many of these were eight, nine months ago, so before that moment, they left and couldn't get the documentation? No one's talking about it today. And I'm interested in which of the parliamentary deputies who vote for this bill will come here in front of the Parliament's pay phone and tell the people, I apologize to all of you who are coming to the archive today and you can't get the paperwork we're to blame. Because after this bill, people won't be able to take out the paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69745	Thank you. Next replica of her colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69746	Dear colleague, I don't know why such paranoia is ruled by the passing of this new law. So the minister said that everything that was crucial and important with the amendments to the law had been incorporated into this one. So they haven't diminished any rights. Therefore, the future basis of this law will be that each one of us should need to go to the State Archives and look for information. What's still a big problem is that bauk digitization. Well, my people, do you know that the paperwork for, uh, retirement records for each of us has to be kept for 75 years after the death of a secure person. So what do you think so much data and documentation can be kept away without these data being digitized? Well, that's funny. If you think something's going to be destroyed to cover up, that could have been done by now. Now what is the new law supposed to define differently? That's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69747	We have a replica first, then a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69748	As far as digitization is concerned, you probably listened very carefully to what I was saying, and I welcome that. So that's not questionable at all. I was talking about changes that you and I voted for eight and a half months ago on our own conscience. I always vote that way. And if these changes were literally prescribed here and if all the rights of that were to remain as such, then absolutely this law that is much wider than these changes for me would be more than acceptable because it brings a lot of other good things. That may be what I left out to say and commend both the minister and the secretary of state sitting here. But of course this is the current topic that we are discussing today only one segment of that law, that it is current and that we all want to express our clear views here. So all these additions that may and may not be modified in the second reading mean where government powers are extended, where other secret documents are added, where all other documents of national interest are delivered, which means that everything that can be classified can be classified is not good. Because you know for yourself when something is not clearly defined that then it is absolutely undefined and that each government functions equally. So we here in the Croatian Parliament must pass laws that will apply to both this majority and tomorrow for another majority. Here, that's my opinion. And as far as digitization is concerned, I welcome it, and I didn't even mention it in my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69749	Thank you. My little mistake. Here's a colleague of Petrov's here to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. An apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69750	Dear Chairman, I really apologize for what is here, but I apologize for having to remind you now that you did not mention the respected representative Grozdan Peric at the time when she referred to my presentation, and I was not the one who spoke, but was the other representative who spoke to him mentioning the digitisation that this representative did not even mention in his speech and then addressed me. And that is the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Article 238. Now that you've given her the opportunity, I'd only ask to answer because she's replicated to me. Dear Representatives Grozdana Peric, I will only tell you one thing. When you pass this bill to the first person who talks to me that she couldn't get the documentation and under the current law she could get it, I'll come to this pay phone and I'll call you and I'll tell you to contact representatives Grodjana Peric for the reason she said and was one of those who said nothing would change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69751	Okay. Thank you. Time. Thank you. Okay, don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69752	Being recognized is his problem. I didn't name anyone, and now Article 238 called me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69753	Number, good, good, thank you. Keep going. Please do not abuse Article 238. Last line, my colleague Grumo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69754	I just wanted to commend my fellow Kosor's consistent attitude. So the truth is, it was Mostt's bill of law, it wasn't a proposal from the government, but the government gave its opinion and gave amendments that we've all accepted here and voted in favour of these amendments that the government has given to the law. And I think that's a consistent attitude if you supported something a few months ago, and now this bill changes it and practically closes what is now open that you can't possibly support it. So in that sense, I commend it. There were talks here as many advocates supported, I think I was right when I said that 94 MPs supported, I'm not sure it's 114 because my SDP colleagues checked in now they've opted out of the vote. [[STAMMERING]] I think the minorities were as abstentioned as I recall, so it's not possible that so many votes were for the law, I think it was less. But mostly, the government's opinion has arrived on this bill, they've been amendments that we've accepted, and I think this is what you've expressed your consistent position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69755	Thank you. We're going on with the representatives' clubs. Next is counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69756	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. This bill actually regulates one purely technical thing, dealing with the profession with archives, but the debate actually shows how sensitive the matter is, because all of us actually when we're talking about a fundus archive that wasn't available. And I actually believe that we all want to make it available. Maybe it's just a difference in approach how to make it available. That it should go in the direction that the law regulates the availability of archival material in a way that makes it good for science, to be good for archives. Because this fund that we're actually talking about and what we're thinking about is the time when there was a Socialist Yugoslavia, so the state that is no longer there is no reason to protect neither the people nor the institutions nor the time, but to actually arrange for that time to be available in the way that the law regulates and that this is governed by the rules of the profession so that actually those who are professionally involved in this business and those who may be personally interested in finding out certain facts. It's a mistake to believe that by opening the archives we'll find the truth there. The truth is always made according to one’s own purpose, although the truth is only one. We'll find data, facts, information in the archives anyway. Archival structure is the assumption of coming to the truth and therefore the documents must be made available. But also completely because getting a partial fragment from the archives that we take as a historical truth and not looking entirely can be dangerous, especially when we're processing personal data from a person. I am saying this because, for example, in the summer, an article came out in a week that just commented on the situation in the Croatian State Archives a few months after the latest amendments to the Archive Act came into force. So the archives opened then. The reporter says he found a lot of traffic, so, a lot of people who were actually interested in personal files, they were taking out picanteries. In his article, he called them "file hunters". In fact, in this Croatian State Archives, these hunters appreciated much more the kind of historical literature than some comprehensive exact reports, which the ministry at the time drew up about some historical important events that could indeed have been an invaluable and credible historical source of material that was then the service and then state as they observed some events and some people. In fact, they were excerpts, personal files containing unverified information, a lot of it made up, wrong, and actually it became a wanted commodity, and what was actually worth to researchers is absolutely neglected. I personally did not go to the Croatian State Archives so I cannot check the allegations of this journalist but I give him faith that they are true. Now imagine how someone who was the victim of the system at the time actually might somehow become a victim again. Because the fact that someone was a member of the party or that the statement was made by Yugoslavian should not mean anything to me today, it should not mean an automatic condemnation of that person. So, I certainly believe that archives should be made available but in accordance with the rules of the profession and the clearly regulated law, especially the law should regulate those mechanisms that will prevent the abuse of the profession, a way that someone can access data beyond the law. What I would like to point out is that the SDSS Club certainly supports the objective of passing laws in terms of scientific research. I believe that the law-making goal that opens the archival structure should certainly be no cleanup, no investigation, no lustration. Whoever agreed or disagreed with that fact, I think the cleaning woman was already made in the '90s if we take just for example the judiciary as one important branch. From the beginning of 91 to 94, our judiciary was located in one legal... we had a constitution that envisioned the State Judiciary Council which was not formed until 94. Thus, the constitutional mechanisms adopted by the new Constitution were not activated, and the old ones that were in force until then ceased to apply. And then we had judges who stood out for the term of office, although the Constitution had a new guarantee of a permanent performance, they were appointed under the old law to be given a mandate, some had been given solutions, some had simply continued to act on a judicial duty, some had received solutions on the termination of office, and some had simply been told to pick themselves up from work, to pack their things, that they were simply not judges anymore. According to incomplete data, it's just an example in the '90s, '91. Some 200 solutions on the resolution of judges have been made, and this is not the final figure because not all those solutions have been published in the National Journal, and when viewed since the 1990s. Until '96. solutions and resolutions that are published in the National Journal, we have about 2200 solutions and resolutions. Thus, the legal system allowed one situation for the judiciary to be found in the vacuum and that solutions are made not by professional criteria but by solutions to be adopted by political and ethnic criteria. A large number of judges reacted the same way in a way that actually changed profession. In the end, I would still refer to this date that was set as... I mean on May 30, '90, I also think now that the first reading that the proposer is considering maybe the fact that now the applicable law has opened several months more. So we now have the situation that the archives are open until the adoption of the Christmas Constitution and that all those who wanted to or intended to or waited for the opportunity went to the Croatian State Archives and searched for the information they were interested in while now, as proposed, we would reduce that period. I think it would be worth it now that we have this law in two readings that the Proposer simply considered that he might return or change the solution or propose a solution that is now valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69757	Thank you, colleagues, to Boris Milosevic. We have no replicas at his exhibition and continue on behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Sabina Glasovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear gentlemen, the promoters, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. When we discussed amendments to the Law on Archival Materials and Archives in May 2017, we first supported the bridge proposal as a club of SDP or at that time the proposal seems to me under certain conditions, conclusions, but when the bill came to the second reading, we felt that the purpose of the amendments to the law had not been met, and we abstained from voting. The government here today, some time later, proposes a new law that was announced then, and there is a great announcement or crown of this law as it is presented amongst others on the one hand, is the professional level where it is brought into line finally with European practice, but also with some other legal regulations that are in our office, because after 21 years, no matter what the law has experienced in that period, four amendments and complements after 21 years, we really hold that it is a good thing to define the availability and use of archive material, but to comply with the legal regulations that have been passed after the adoption of this law itself, which is the Law on the right to access information, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Law on Information. The profession was very often in a situation that should be followed by the Law on Archival Construction and Archives, but on the other hand, these other regulations did not allow it to act, so it was found very often in the gap between lex specialis and some other laws. So I think in this part of the law, this law will significantly facilitate the daily work of dealing with archives, but also use, means both end-users and those involved. It is equally indisputable that this bill allows the economy and public services to create digital, documentary and archive material with full protection of legal certainty, and thus we will finally join the modern trends of European digital society and achieve significant savings and economics, but also the public sector. On the third hand, we will also make it easier for the economic and public sectors to work because they will no longer be obliged to keep all the extensive paperwork in paper form, we will probably also reduce certain duties, the ways of managing electronic documents and their storage in archives are prescribed. So far, we have not had this absolutely arranged, but since it is the first reading that would not be worse if the applicant took into account the opinion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but also some discussions by the representatives in this Croatian Assembly on behalf of the clubs who have warned of potential dangers, the indeterminateness of certain articles of the law that could be passed, means that we can do something good to improve the work and this area could slip into insufficiently correct solutions in the implementation itself, the finalisation of the law. This bill will also liberalise the availability of archive material. And what we are now getting to this part, means that 30 years of inaccessibility is lifted, and according to the Law on the right to access information, the material is immediately available to the creator, so before handing over the archive. According to the Law on the right to access information in accordance with European regulations, non-accessible information, containing personal and secret data, and information, where proceedings are under way. And that's the good side of this bill, and I think there's going to be some consensus about it and the professions and political parliamentary parties, but also the general public. However, unfortunately, we could, in fact, close this topic much earlier. Here we are today all day, by chance or not, discussing this law. I'm not saying he doesn't matter, but he is not of crucial existential importance in Croatian society. I won't even be so bad as to say that his appointment at today's session of the Croatian Parliament is timed, because we know that he has certain passions, if we take away all this stuff that I've talked about in the opening part, about which there is no dispute in this House, not amongst the profession, not in the general public. However, is it by any chance that this law comes now at this time to the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's no accident, so let's not be naive. In the midst of the Agrokora affair, in the midst of some topics, which are highly relevant to the good part of Croatian citizens. We give that bread and games to the Croatian Parliament, give it to the people, to have fun with what? The law on archival construction and archives. Why? Because we know he's got passion here. Here, we see how most discussions have taken place and what's actually what's going to help us live better today, that we live better tomorrow. We should deal with the past and we in the SDP, we also said when Most was first proposed by this law in both the first and second readings. Open everything immediately, all archives. Let the truth be known. Because without clearing up with the past we obviously can't move forward, we can't build a future, we could have done it a year ago and two years ago and before... We didn't do it, we say, we'll do it with this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the question is, are we going to do it with this law? We're for clearing up with the past and we're for opening the archives, but we're not sure this law will contribute to that. Why? The circumstances are unclear, regardless of the argument we heard here why it appears to be inaccessible material from 30.5.-22.12.1990. We heard the arguments here, because, in fact, the existence of the Croatian state, i.e. its structure, its independence, means, is perceived from the moment when the Croatian Parliament was established. Okay. But that information, it's not disputed today, like it wasn't disputed a year ago, not two, not three or four ago. Why didn't we change that then? I don't want to assume that this wants something hidden, that this wants someone to be protected, or worse, that by intervening, he wants to deal with someone tomorrow. Also, the availability of the archive by 30.5 means that the public is completely inaccessible from the transition period of the communist order to the democratic structure of the state, since it is in the second half of '90. the transfer of power still takes place, and that the material from that period should also be available. So we can't, absolutely can't claim, that the new law will ensure full availability. And even for that material that was made by 30.5.1990, why? Because she took the government, the scissors and the skirt into her own hands. What does that mean? She will have discretionary rights, decide what will be open and what will be closed. I'm afraid that's not how we're going to contribute to a clean start, a view of the past, a clearing of the past and a safe path to the future. This is now like one such toy, to me this law, unfortunately, I would like to be reassured, but it seems to me really as one toy, less for us parliamentary representatives, and more for the Croatian public, in order to draw attention at this moment from some major topics, regardless of what this bill was planned, the Ministry of Making at the end of 2017. under the pressure of the Mosta, who then threatened to propose his law, so this creation of this law actually entered into the plan of the normative activities of the Ministry of Culture itself. It is also unusual to come to the Croatian Parliament, without assessing the effects of the regulations, without assessing the effects of the financial effects and with a bunch of transitional and final provisions that are actually in favour of the adoption of these regulations, to allow me to implement this law. Very sloppy, very sleek and very irresponsible, if indeed by law, as stated in the plan of normative activities planned to come before the government, with the government as promoters and not then the coalition partner, which is also normal for the government to propose such laws and against it we have nothing really against. So it's another conclusion. We support clearing up all the facts, opening up all the documents that can help, but we are not sure, and we hope that you will convince us, that this law will contribute so much more to it that you have rightfully taken for yourself as a government to decide what data is of national interest, which will be classified, which will be defined as unclassified and on the other hand we present this law as something that should finally open up, and then close some situations, issues, troubles that have indeed been in one good part of the Croatian public for years, have been giving headaches and become a top topic not only in the media space, but some people are really asking, and I will dare to say life, death, honor and everything else. After all, we also have a normal life with a view to the future with the things that are cleared about our past that we must be prepared to look into the eyes of whatever she may be and no matter who she reaches at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69759	Thank you. We have one replica, colleague Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69760	Well, here's my colleague, Voter. I've been listening to your TV show upstairs. I wasn't here in the hall, but I came back. You said you were to open all archives, so to make all documents available from the past. Although you belong to a generation of younger politicians and politicians, I will remind you you are a member of the SDP, which is the successor of the old Croatian Communist Union. Until the day of today's archive, all archives from the Croatian Communist Union have not been submitted to the State Archives. So here you can bet that as soon as the SDP delivers all the documentation from the previous decades before 1990, which surely carries many, many secrets and elements that are not available to the public today, which the public wants to know about what is still hidden in the archives of the SDP as the followers of the former communist party of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69761	Replication response, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69762	Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to quote my colleague coat of arms from the debate on behalf of the club a few months ago. So on November 3rd of the 1990s, a historical declaration was adopted at the first SDP convention that considered the SDP a historical and moral duty to apologize for all that and for all those to whom the injustice had been done and who had been wronged since '45. 'Til the '90s. Information on the archives of the Central Committee of the Croatian Communist Union, stored in the Croatian State Archives on 31 August '92. The SDP Presidency of Croatia when there was no legal obligation to do so has been decided to hand over the registration archive building created by the work of the Communist Party of Croatia and the Union of Communists of Croatia in 1992. Realisation begins in '95. Given the size of the archive building, it continues and ends in 2012. There's nothing left of us ever since. It is the documents of members of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the personal files of the Federation of Communists of Croatia, the personal files of the INFOBIROs, the files from the work of the personnel commission, the files from the work of the control commission of the Communist Party of Croatia. It's all covered by that surrender. 6500 boxes falling off members of the Croatian Communist Union. About 200,000 files of former members and another 7500 boxes containing scraps of material. I'm not a witness to the time of the former state, but I've witnessed these events since I've been in the party long enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69763	You didn't hand over the documents all, but you don't know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69764	Thank you, fellow Head. Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Nina Obulen has asked for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69765	I'd like to now after these club presentations on several thesis that have been presented, to be considered. There's been a lot of talk about impressions, about hidden reasons, and I have to repeat on behalf of the government. Eight months ago, when changes and additions were discussed here, we finalized the draft of the new Archive Act. So, we're doing nothing now that we didn't emphasize and announce eight months ago. We've been hearing about closing the archives all day without anyone presenting any documents. I haven't heard a single article in which we would close the archives. It is silenced that we now have a whole new law that abolishs the 30-year inaccessibility clause. So everything in the archives is available. Those changes to the law you voted eight months ago were gone. You've given amendments and additions to a law where there's been 30 years of inaccessibility and everyone's not telling. So today we're talking about a whole new situation. After that, we are forced to change something from a valid law. When the government proposes law, it proposes a whole law. She goes into every detail and every statement. I note that between the first and second readings in the case of amendments to the laws in this House, the Round Table where numerous stakeholders are, I am sorry if that word bothers anyone to show their doubts about certain national security statements, the Commissioner for the right to access information, the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law has been passed through their opinions and all the formulations we have introduced have been introduced in accordance with the applicable and other regulations. A little bit here was about spatial capacity, about the development of service, about new standards in the collection of materials. We are the first government to detail the state of archives, we have a detailed overview of spatial needs, we have a detailed estimate of how many materials will be collected in years that come including the lists that you have established by law adopted here eight months ago. As far as these lists are concerned, regardless of what's been said here, I have to say and repeat what I said in the introduction. We've acted under the applicable law, we've collected lists, it's 21,000 long miles of archive material, and whether it's in the state archive today, some public archive or the creator's, according to the law we're proposing here today, it's all available because I repeat it, we don't have more than 30 years of inaccessibility. I don't know why it's being silenced, and I don't know why that fact is ignored, which is one of the key reasons why this law is being passed. Another topic and a dangerous replacement of thesis, I couldn't believe it when I heard you mention the Baška board. Mixing documentary archival material and cultural heritage that protects the Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods, in the Croatian Assembly which makes one law and the other, is nothing more than a public deception. I apologize for speaking in the name of the Government but I felt deeply shaken that in the Croatian Parliament one could insinuate to create a digital replica of the Baška plate and then destroy it. In the end, the Archive Act is not a law that regulates any classification of any declassification. And that here must be clear, it doesn't arrange the Ministry of Culture, as a minister I don't have such ambitions, maybe some other ministers had ambitions. No financial commitments are imposed on the local self-government, we settle matters of the religious communities, it is filed in Vesnik's documentation, it is mostly digitally available and all others including committee proposals we will certainly consider, I am sure that we will come to another reading with one text that will be complete and that can be accepted by all parties in this House as they were eight months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69766	Thank you. We have two replicas at the Minister's office. Here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69767	Thank you very much. Minister, you haven't answered a single question from the Parliament clubs, you haven't answered for 30 years about the construction that's now open, but the fact that by this law that you're proposing... a period of material produced in May to December 1990, which is a very significant period in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what you're seeing this problem and why it's closed now. So this law closes that period. In addition, I will repeat this once again, you have not responded to Article 19(2), where only persons who were a member and co-worker of the State Security Service and acted in public duty, so only two people in the entire system would not be able to protect their personal data, their data were publicly available. If this isn't closing the archives, I don't know what it is. So Article 19(2), here I ask you one more time and I'm asking you one more time for this '90 period. What's he locked up for? So this law of the present, of the existing. The archives are open, we saw it from the discussions of my predecessors and we saw the debate that Mr Hasanbegovic has had where you did not deny any of his allegations or MOST club. So, you're cheating on the public here, and you're not answering our questions to the MPs. That's visible and that's the fact that you haven't answered any of the questions asked by the MPs. Just say the word, we're closing the archives. The law on the closure of archives, the current law which was not long ago passed by the large majority of parliamentary deputies, seems to me to be three abstentions, absolutely all parliamentary deputies here supported, from fellow Boric, who looks at me and further, all of them unanimously but it was a pre-election campaign, so I guess then... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69768	Thank you. The next replica is the replica of Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69769	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Minister, depending on these discussions to point out, some merits are much greater than the Pope, but I would like you to respond here for the sake of the Croatian public, also because of the concerns I have personally. The archive of the Federation of Communists of Croatia, the archive of the Secretariat of the General People's Defence and the archive of the Interior Secretariat, was it the subject of the then republican or state archive, however you wish, and that here in the Croatian Parliament you clearly state where these archives were, who ran them and how are they located? And I would ask you once again to repeat, even though in your debate you said to abolish this period of 30 years since it has been repeated that you, in fact, that the Government is proposing to the MPs that they adopt it to close the archives, I ask you nicely to explicitly answer those questions. So three questions I asked you, I ask you three explicit answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69770	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69771	Thank you, Mr. Representative. I don't know how to answer that anymore, so the bill provides for the removal of 30 years of inaccessibility of archive material. So all archive material is available. I don't know how to answer that anymore. If someone from that can read that something is closing, I no longer have a way to explain it. Therefore, a 30-year period of inaccessibility is abolished. Not only what was created from May to December of '90, but what was created in '92, 95, 97, 2001, 2017, everything is available if it is not otherwise defined, and these are laws that are not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture and that we are not discussing today. These are the issue of classification and declassification of data and the issue of national security. I'm not a resolute minister and I don't feel comfortable discussing these topics, nor do I think it's the theme of the Archive Law. As far as this second question is concerned, I think we've mentioned it several times, that the material of the former communist alliance, according to the '78 Archive Paper Act. there was no legal obligation to hand over party material to the competent archive. So, it wasn't, it was then, for some reason, the laws of that time, that material was not considered an archival material to be stored in the archive. As an archival profession, we don't know where it is, nor do the people in the archive know where it is. We're now in accordance with this law, we've sent a list-related inquiry, and we've collected everything we could come up with. What's not in the archives, the archivists can't even find, that's what other services are in charge of. I don't understand why we as the Ministry of Culture keep asking these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69772	Thank you, Minister. And now we're on our way to an individual debate. The first debate is from my colleague Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69773	Thank you very much. Here, I'll be brief, because most of the clubs, the colleagues said. I'm going to ask the same questions again, Minister, the legislator of this law, to which all the time, they didn't get one answer from all the clubs that were asking questions. So this law troubles this part, the period of materials in the '90s. It means 5 months to 12 months. It's a very important period, and here I am informing the Minister to answer me, which is why this period is closing. And this article, paragraph 19, I'll read it one more time. So only, I don't know what to say anymore, but here, they're exempt from the protection of paragraph 2, Article 19 is excluded from the protection of personal data only by those persons who were at the same time a member or a co-worker of the security service and acted as a public officer. So only two people in the entire system couldn't protect their personal data. Their data would be publicly available, if this happens again, it isn't, closing the archives, then what is it? We are quite clear here, eight months ago we passed the law on the proposal of Club Most, the Law on Archives, then almost unanimously, most of the votes supported it, 3 abstentions, I see no reason to pass the Law on the closure of the archives, I would call it the closure of an archive or a lex colleague, not naming anyone, so that someone might not feel it. But it's a fact that this law closes the archives. It's a fact from all the clubs that have talked so far and people who have been professionally discussing these issues. Since a colleague on behalf of the Bridge Club, Mr. Grmoy, has not received a single answer, except for personal attacks and stories that have nothing to do with anything. Secondly, and they even said that they were spreading, uh, MPs have the right to ask and check, as I ask Article 19, paragraph 2 to get that answer, because according to this, the documentation on Stan Dolanc couldn't get the information, because he wasn't an associate, he was a senior official, but he wasn't an associate of the service, but he was highly positioned. That's one example. So I'm telling you, the fact that when we talk about digitizing the material archives, in paper form, that's one of the things that we can support. I'm not saying that digitization is not good, nor is the Mosta Bridge digitization not good. However, there may be a number of problems that we have seen from the discussions on digitisation, so that many problems can arise and many destructions and many untruths that can be done selectively. Ugl. As ruling I cannot understand at all, now those who voted eight months ago. And if they call, here I was listening to a good debate, which so far has been a professional, former minister, Mr. Hasanbegovic, who was led down in Trill, during the campaign through Lico, and literally as a little bear, taking votes. I believe that man has made quality proposals, none of these allegations have been denied by the minister, except for the release of pamphlets to the public, i.e. a statement that is like pamphlets spread out of her mouth and speaks, you MPs speak falsely. So answer these questions asked by the MPs. There's no anxiety, because the fact that people here have been arguing on behalf of the club, they've asked you questions, you don't answer. You've been setting your 30-year-old weight to cancel that deadline. But why is it forbidden from 5 months to 12 months, and why Article 19(2) is just 2 people from that system,... It's not protected, their documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think this law is unnecessary, we have laws so passed to the archives that it's open to everyone, it's available to everyone, and I think that this law was really unnecessary, that the law was voted for by Mostov, only because it was pre-election time and at the time it was not good to send a message, there were voters not to open the archives and now of course they're looking to close. I'm saying this for the future, that this law is here to remain written, this law closes the archives, this is a lex colleague, and the existing law on archives, we have it, and this law is essentially something that is unnecessary if we want to have archives. So much for me. And I would only ask the minister to answer these questions and why she does not respond to club representatives, asked questions and colleagues of Grumoja, and colleagues of Hasanbegovic and Kosor, all those who have debated, and why you have not given a single answer, concrete on the subject of the article, item and I have now presented two, however, we do not have an answer from you, except that all the time, you are telling us that we are insulting you, to mention the Bastian tablet, and even the archive is some kind of material, paper that will be, in 50 years, there is no place, we can say that there is no room for the Bastian tablet, it is literally well said. And that's culturally good, and it's cultural, and the archives are going to be taught by someone, and historians are going to build the truth out of history. I find it irresponsible and irresponsible to this law of yours, and especially of you as a minister, which you do not want to answer at all times to the questions of parliamentary deputies who would like to solve this problem together with you, but obviously you do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69774	I thank my colleague Bull. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69775	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull. All day long, I have been listening carefully to these objections related to Article 19(2) that you interpreted to yourself in such a way that the use of the ally and in this case does not mean what it really means. I have to tell you that the ally and the ally are the same as the one used in the listing. So he doesn't rule out what's listed in front of or behind him here, so you've been playing games all day at the expense of the ally and you're completely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69776	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69777	So we bring, fellow Yekovac we make the law we have the law on the archives, this law is exactly what you said closing archives. No, you didn't say that, but you're interpreting it as you want to, and. I don't want to talk about the bonds either, but the fact that this allowed the closure of one part of the archive, one part of the period, is the fact that it deals with this case that is ahead of us, means this Bill on Archives, that the existing law on archives has dealt with it, we have been resolved, you voted on it eight months ago if you and my colleague Šipic, who led Mr. Hasanbegovic to win any points and votes, you all led it. And now that man who was the minister, where you got the votes now suddenly you deny him. Well, it's a precedent plane, I don't know how to describe it. I mean, I'm sorry to compare a man to a little bear, but you literally ran it like you got a vote, even here's the chairman...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69778	Mr. Bull. Please do not interrupt your colleague while responding to a replica. [[/Intruder Bull: There you go. /Thank you.]] I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69779	Dear Vice President, it's good to see you here at the Croatian Parliament. We also mentioned your announcement that lustration will happen if it happens in HDZ and that this law is precisely the rejection of such a law is an ideal opportunity for this lustration to be carried out. So what he's been trying to plant all the time as some spin colleague Bulj is that here's fellow Misic is going to be talking all the time about opening the archives, the archives are open until December 22nd, '90. Anyone can have an insight into that file. And this bill put forward a series of articles that are controversial and what colleague Jekovac tells you how you interpret, which is the problem only of the law that can be interpreted in one way or another, or that is Article 17(5) of the Law, so we have this provision on the confidentiality of data and other classified information, or where other information of national interest is proposed to the Government, means that by its discretionary decision and without any legal criteria, we have regulations and other information of national interest. In particular, it is still given and added to public archive material which is not marked by the degree of secrecy in accordance with the rules governing the confidentiality of data. And as we said if I combine these two expressions, the government of the Republic of Croatia gets the authority to classify or not declare any data inaccessible without any criteria and limitations and permanently without any deadlines. And that's what the problem is, but even with all this stuff we've listed, we have a complete closure of the archives, it's a clear intention. I thought after certain files came out that HDZ would retreat, but here we are not retreating, and now we expect our vice president's support to finally move in the direction he calls for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69780	Thank you, Mr. Grumoja, for missing me and for glad to see me again. In addition to the lustration in HDZ, there would be work in the SDP as well as in the Most and in many parties, but it is not a topic. Now we have an answer to your replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69781	Thank you very much. So if we had two controversial articles, Article 17(5), we have Article 19(2), we don't get answers from the minister, you said it all the time, said the others who spoke on behalf of clubs I'm the first individual. We didn't get that answer, and of course our colleague Jelkovac would interpret it as fitting to her. But the discretionary right to determine someone to give him what it is of the national interest who is of the national interest, has given it to a colleague or who will determine what is the national interest to close, in fact what is not to come out. Therefore, I believe that here is a fellow Misic you said just before he mentioned at this point the archives were opened, at this point by the law that Most proposed last year in the fifth month, it was eight months ago, the vote was then only three were restrained from all those present. Basically this is the law on closing archives because the law in the fifth month was voted for, it's quite clear, and this interpretation and, but, and so you deliberately put it, it's studioy, it's targeted, it's aimed at interpreting how it suits you and that it's of national interest as a colleague fits, but it's not so. The law must be precise, clear to everyone. At this point, the fact is that there is a law on archives, the archives are open, with this law we shut it down and certain groups, we gave discretionary rights in certain individuals to determine what they can, what they can't and their colleagues will do so selectively as they please, and this law on closure is even worse than what was before this was valid because here is given the selective right of a colleague to do as he wishes with these documents, means the selectivity absolutely not good in one legal state, we all need to be equal before the Constitution, Minister, whether it's a colleague or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69782	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69783	Well, I would only tell Mr. Bull that today is not about any lex colleagues, but about the Bill's proposal on archival material and archives. And the fact that you call that law a lex colleague, it's so low, so malignant, so incorrect, and not just you today, right now, right now when you're talking, but in the debate of your club this morning when Mr. Grumoy was talking. Malitically, it can't get any worse. You insist on insinuating and deluding using a direct television transmission to hide behind your colleagues Mr. Shakespeare. I stress again, what I said an hour ago, Vladimir Shakespeare was never an associate of the UDBA, ever. And you're trying to force it on him and you're trying to push it through the media. UDBA's associates' lists aren't even in the state archives today, UDBA's associates' records through a few decades before '90. the year exists and has not yet been handed over to the State Archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69784	Thank you, fellow Chief. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69785	Mr. Glavas, your right is it to me was touching when you were defending Stipa Mesic here when it was in the event of an end to the office of the former president, it was really touching to me, so I find it touching that what you're defending your colleague Seks, that's your right, that no one is defending you but we have the right to speak, this is democratic, I mean who insults him,... No, no, but I didn't name anyone, I named Stipa Mesic, then you two attacked me today regardless of when you were being prosecuted, when you asked as Croatian generals to defend themselves from freedom...... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] No, no, no, you were attacking a fellow Shex, not me here, I'm a witness, so you were saying those words that you're throwing at me right now. ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Your party, then,... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Upadica Brkić: Excuse me, colleague Bulj.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69786	Comrade Bull, I apologize. Dear colleague Glavas, I ask you nicely not to interrupt my colleague Bulja, because he did not interrupt you and you have the right to answer him in another way through the Rules of Procedure, please let me answer. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69787	Look, everyone has a right, and so does the General, the Honorable Glavas, the parliamentary representative I appreciated defending Stipa Mesic, that's your right, no one is defending you. You have the right to defend that he has 3 or 4 offices or 5 offices, but my right was then so you attacked me, insulted me, I wasn't in the Parliament, for no reason here. You even called on me to be prosecuted, to crucify me, you said that. Look, you're defending Stipe Mesic, Shacks, I don't know, it's your right, are your accounts like this, like this, I absolutely don't care, I'm not interested in your attitude, but you're not going to impose it on us, and you're all telling me what you're saying to me, you're implying, your party here in this Assembly is thundering on the megaphone, on the megaphone they're saying here Shacks, they're bringing him instructions here for the treatment of alcohol, here, your party, not me. You weren't so critical, I didn't send those reviews. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69788	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. We move on to the next individual debate, dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69789	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I'm going to start some chronology, and mostly about the bill. So, the creators of the archive material don't have suitable accommodation areas for cities or trained personnel to handle archival material, and you said that, I'm glad you did it again today. Some creators have quantified material more than the competent state archives and you said so, and perhaps one or all employees are actually taking care of them and employees who care about the archive material of their creators, the archive activity is mostly secondary because they do more work, that's what I was saying,... e.g. Secretaries, drivers, janitors and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm going to say two examples from practice, say police stations as creators of archive cities, it's unfortunate that most of these police stations don't actually have suitable spaces and that this archive material is located in armory or interrogation rooms in a lot of police stations. The second is in the permanent departments of municipal and city courts, the material is also located in inappropriate places, in inadequate conditions, while, for example, the archiving expert spends more time delivering this material to the relative permanent services and seats of the court than in its own handling. Therefore, there is no doubt that this bill that you present today in the Croatian Assembly on Archive materials and archives will help solve these accumulated problems regarding this issue and it is particularly dear to the archives and archives themselves. The bill itself regulates the entire system and you actually listed it today, the one who wanted to hear it, could hear it. So from collecting and from protecting, processing and using documentary and archive material. The law is very important, it will edit the evaluation procedures, then the criteria for private archives themselves, regulate the deadlines. And the general date of inaccessibility is lifted, so you've repeated it 10 times today and you've been able to do it 100 times and you've seen that some colleagues don't hear it at all or don't want to hear it, and they're going to keep telling you about the fact that this bill closes the archives. And in fact, the general date of inaccessibility is lifted and it clearly states here in the light of this law and the very proposal of the law. The 1997 law actually provided for in state archives the power to establish and archive units of local self-government and regional (regional) self-government and it did not actually happen even though the law predicted it. So I am particularly pleased, and I wanted to make sure that several times this bill will actually create a new financial obligation for local self-government units and regional and regional self-government. And I'm glad you pointed out today that you won't. Maybe it's good here to remind all the fellow mayors and mayors that they're actually taking care of this and that, because as far as I know, they've been getting these funds from the Ministry of Culture. So that's how you supported them. But I think it is important to bear in mind today to all the mayors and mayors that this archival structure, i.e. documentary structure, is very important and important for future generations and that they should be very, very serious about it. I spoke today, and I will now repeat the example of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which allocates significant funds for its archive and documentary material, and it is in a few places for you. So first of all, I'm going to say that, let's say that these materials are according to the rules, they're bound to be kept permanently in the original form. I must stress that, and you need to take care of this for a simple reason, because the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law, Criminal Law, Family Law, the Law on the Procedural Procedure, they do not recognise microfilms and do not recognise digital forms but are looking for original forms. It's very important and I think until the second reading should at least talk to the Ministry of Justice how and how to solve it. It would save a lot of money. So in this situation, for example, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office has its own archives in several places, in the home house itself, for example in the company street, Kerestinco, in Jastrebarska and annually stands out about 3 million kunas for archiving which are not insignificant funds. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. So it's about 508,000 people with disabilities, their solutions. These are live objects for you. You can't archive them where you don't need them. They, may be the renewal of court proceedings and revisions of the case itself, and you must have these items, but you do not recognise that digital or microfilm form. So the original document is required. That's what you need to take care of. On the other hand, it may be income to say a few things about the archive itself, archiving, employees and space. I'd dare say, perhaps I'm wrong, and you can correct me and I'd like to know about that information. At this point in time, when you count all the bodies of the state government, I'm sure that on an annual level, it stands out somewhere between 200 million and 300 million kunas. So it's not insignificant money if you look at the mandate of a government. That's almost a billion and 200 million kuna. For these funds, certain buildings can be built or through the Ministry of State Property of those unspective buildings and buildings that exist in the Republic of Croatia, they could be used as a space for archival buildings, which would be very helpful for many Croatian State Archives, but these 17 branches too, because you yourself said that certain state archives, or branches, have not received their documentation for years. For example Dubrovnik or, for example, the Croatian State Archives in Pazin. So, that's what I want to raise awareness of. For example, it should also be said that certain heads of state will not say that they are not responsible, but they may pay little attention to such important matters. It would be good and I'm a witness myself, and here you are in our benches Mr. Shucker, while he was the finance minister you should come to, say, the Ministry of Finance and see how they solved their archives. So it's like coming into a spaceship. Since I've worked in some institutions, you have a situation where people in your offices are buried with documents. De facto these are inappropriate working conditions, because they have nowhere to go with such documentation. So, you need to see how it was done by the Ministry of Finance and in fact other state bodies could follow that example. Maybe there's something else I'm about to say about specialized archives. So the Ministry of Culture should also consider making specialized archives possible. Here, as far as I know, there is only this Croatian Documentation Centre in the Homeland War as a specialized archive. But you can also think about archives specialized in justice, health care where there's a large amount of documents, and I think a lot of these problems would be solved. I am pleased that the Minister, in her opening statement and during the day, spoke about the fact that we have decent funds from the European Funds at our disposal, which is actually an open call from the authorities of the state authorities, that they themselves, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, are designing such projects that would be very helpful to them as institutions, but also to their employees, and in a special way to the State Archives, which is the structure we are building for future generations. With regard to digitisation itself, i.e. microfilming, that is, one difficult process, and we will certainly wait to meet certain conditions as they exist in certain European countries. But I believe that the proposal for this law is, in fact, also its contents and everything that is contained here from document management to the transitional and final provisions themselves is something to be welcomed, and I am particularly glad that the profession, the archivists have participated in this law as much as many seem impossible to solve these things I think if there is a good political will, and it is expressed to you that these problems will be solved. These other problems of this ideological nature they will always occupy our public and I'm sure they will last as long as we last because certain things will be very difficult to solve in our society. We must not forget that we were part of a state that fell apart, and today working on such things is good, it's positive. But I'm afraid of those labels in society because we're like a society, we're mentally prone to it, so here's a colleague of mine who's not here today to tell you that in my circle there are all the foster parents or some others. So we have to look after these things, and I welcome this bill. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69790	I thank my colleague Babic. We have a replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69791	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Babic, you have mentioned a lot, but what remains in the air because some colleagues have accused the Government of prescribing or deciding on the secrecy of some documents and data, not wanting to read the real meaning of Article 17(5), where it is said that "the government of the Republic of Croatia rules the decision, and on the basis of the proposal of the Office of the Council for National Security, the deadlines for availability for public archive material which is not marked by the degree of secrecy, in accordance with the regulations governing the confidentiality of data, and the project and technical documentation of protected and military facilities, industrial installations, infrastructure facilities, other information of national interest or data on natural and strategic wealth of the Republic of Croatia". It is therefore necessary to point out once again that these are only exceptions and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not in any way restrict or prescribe the secrecy of certain data and documents and that is important for the public to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69792	I thank my colleague Grodani Peric. My colleague Babic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69793	Thank you, Vice President. It is good for you to point out that although this has been seen through the debate today, the Minister pointed out on her own that she is with the Bridge proposal and related to Articles 18 and 19, and now you have said article 17 literally everything written from what was proposed by the Most. As far as classified data is concerned, it is clearly stated here, so it is not the Ministry of Culture that will declassify certain data but rather some other services. On the other hand, why not such classified data? Well, we're a country, so certain things have to be classified and it's in the protection of national interests. I don't know why colleagues would be angry, so let's look at any country in our environment they all have classified data and it's known that the national interests of a particular state. And my colleague Tudjman talked about it today that certain things that are of national interest are changing, they are subject to change. Today you've got him talking bird flu, tomorrow you've got migrants so it's all in the national interest and I don't see any reason why this would specifically be attacked by our colleagues. And given that this is the first reading if there are certain objections, I think that the proponent himself will respect the facts that are well-founded and that go in favor of the better law or the application of the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69794	I thank my colleague Babic for his reply to the replica. We move on to the next individual debate, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69795	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. So here after a longer debate during the day, the question of whether it makes more sense to speak here anything since those who wanted to free themselves of their frustrations under this law have left the assembly and are no longer interested in them. They generally managed to say everything they wanted negatively in this law, not going into being alone and trying to deceive or lead astray many citizens by making up lies that simply do not exist in this law. And I'm sorry that they left because the fact is that we listened to two discussions from two clubs almost identical with the same messages that this law closes the archives and should be called by name, some code names of some alleged people associates, former systems, UDBAs of this, that and when they said it a dozen times they simply left this assembly, thinking they'd made enough good material that they would then produce in the next period, regardless of what they were even talking about. Because listening to your colleagues clearly gives the impression that only colleague Bulj knows everything about state records and the former minister knows everything that we don't know, that we're being trained here, that it's actually a fundamental message of this law, actually, if you don't know anything, don't even go into those archives because there and there and so nothing will be available to you because there. We have a law that's opened everything in the last ten months of some kind of experience, so let's get to that experience. What have we learned from this open archive or from all these buildings in the past ten months? Where are these people who are constantly named through some portals, media, these lists, etc. So we know the names, so we know about their lives, everything where your files are, nothing. What happened? What we warned about when we passed that law that it was not perfect to the end and that those who were victims of the system of the time we wanted to forget would continue to be victims. You've been listening to the subject today. The debate on the subject of one of our former MPs, a man who was called by lies and falseness, a man who was imprisoned at the time of communism became the target of the media and individuals in the Parliament in this time of open archives. For what purpose and for what reason, is that a question? A few political points, an attempt to catch a man on a particular party's electoral body who doesn't know something or doesn't know it, that a man who is in the very essence of this country's creation from the beginning is detested. Is this some kind of political agenda or platform where we're going to have a discussion about archives? I always thought it was her second goal to find people who did it, who were co-workers or were the ones who were after them, nothing, nothing. Here's the last ten months, and it's supposed to be all open, so why isn't there anything? Well, obviously, those files are nowhere to be found. And we can prescribe that they're available from that and that time and they're gone. Apparently, they're not there because they'd be available. And we've been having this debate all day on some kind of "you" interlocutor, so we're going to put the word "ask" on it, so ask Mira Bulja all about the archives if you don't know anything. Sad debate, unfortunately, individuals who bring down a good subject and a good law to banality or attempt to deal with people who clearly showed me in the given time where they belong. And now we'll use it to deal with it, first through the media, for a dozen days, so when a man takes out all the arguments, we hear that he writes both the book and everything, then we say "and we're not that little, we put a little bit of it on the edge, so let people look at you a little differently, and then we'll leave you and be there, no." It's not a debate worthy of the people's representatives here in the assembly. And what's wrong with this law? We've heard they're not doing well with the digitization of the archive building. You still make 50 or 100,000 squares to keep everything in paper because the DVD or some other medium is not good enough to keep everything we can in that archive. And that's why we have to agree, and that's why they're against something. What is their perfect law that entered this law almost entirely with little changes, theirs is something perfect, and there's nothing wrong here anymore. Strange thesis, strange people and a whole day of moral... Or anyone who sits here all day and they're gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no God Petrov again today, where'd he go? Some today called that we were gone from 8:00 a.m. to the Parliament and that we should choose to work eight o'clock. There's enough of us here, we've been working all day, but some people give themselves some rights they really shouldn't have. They don't want to do their job. What bothered them? May 30th, we heard why. We also heard conspiracy theories about what it's all about, yes, conspiracy theories, which we want to protect in seven months. All the same ones who voted for the Constitution on 22.12 that same year. And what do we want to protect when all is available? Here's the clear one right here. So, a completely misdirected debate on the wishes of some clubs is unfortunately going to end up perhaps in a quieter course of first reading. If anyone really thinks this is going to close the archives, I'd like to hear it for what it's really about, but show by argument, prove it. But no, here, we'll say it a hundred times and that's it. Nothing closes, it opens further, the deadlines that were in years are lifted, the date of the document's creation is important and we move on. But unfortunately I say, here in the afternoon we hope that this will calm down and go through this debate with one better and more quality work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69796	Thank you. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69797	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, Boric, I was just talking and talking about opening the archives, clearly. By the time the bridge got here, they said it was closing, not opening. I'm asking them the same question now because when I was in MOST, there were stories about it, Karamarko put it somewhere in his pre-election campaign, that there would be lustrations, that it would be done, but I suggested it to God Petrovo to do it, he said "leave it, we won't talk about it now". Now that's a question now, so we're doing something when we need to do things like this, when we don't need to, then we're going to do different. That's what you were just talking about, I hope these archives stay open and that one day we'll know everything that's been going on and what's happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69798	Thank you, fellow Misic. Answer, fellow Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69799	Thank you very much. Coliga Misic, I may have been a little stronger in my debate because I wanted to warn you about some of the things that happen here in the Parliament, and we did the same last year in the fifth or fourth month when we had a different law, the Law on concessions when the same team assured the Croatian people that we would sell out maritime goods and the whole state. A year of experience, nothing happened, means they need to misinformed and cite citizens with false information for their own political goal and can talk about it because the arguments are on our side. It's the same thing with this law. On purpose, I say, they want to deceive people and they want to say, "Here we are closing something," they're all running away from their history, I'm 40 years old, I don't know what I'm supposed to be running from, which I'm supposed to be running from, but they're all perfect by spaghetti etc. And it's no wonder that a colleague left them because it just can't be reconciled that it can't go on like that anymore. So it's a policy that doesn't contribute to the future or to the regulation of certain areas, but to politics to quarrel, to quarrel or to deceive, and that's that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69800	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69801	Dear Vice President, you, as chairman, should have warned or warned by virtue of Article 238, he spoke about a subject that was not subject to discussion. As far as I know, it is not the subject of a concession debate that has made Mayor Ževrnja no longer a candidate, because of the unremembered robbery of concession rights on beaches, it is the billions of kunas in Split-Dalmatia County, I warned him about it, and I hope that we will correct it because it was simply an ATM party down in Split-Dalmatia County, and the Golden War is no one's legacy, the Golden War was of all of us and it should have been transparent, so you did not speak, your colleague Boris was not talking about the topic, and the topic was archives. With your colleague, Boric, speaking all morning and moralizing the gods, the same person who is godfather of Petrova, best man is your colleague Cellic too, so you forgot that. You forget that, of course, you even count blood cells. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69802	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I'm glad you have keen intentions about learning, me as chairman of what I should do. If we were to talk about not respecting the subject, you, Mr. Bull, would not speak in this House for one minute, because you're mostly speaking beyond the subject. And I'm asking you nicely, I don't think that the Rules of Procedure has been hurt in any way. Do not abuse the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure so that you will respond in such a way to any parliamentary representative. If you think that in any way the injured Rules of Procedure have a business possibility of objecting, or appeal. Thank you very much. Do you have any other replicas or injuries?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69803	The Honorable Chairman, you have now spoken as a parliamentary representative. You said you wouldn't tell me to go for a minute. I know it's your intention, but you won't. The people picked me up by 11,000 votes I got not as some who came in here alternately, so here you justify them, of course because of the party hierarchy they didn't enter preferentially. But I expect you to be equal to everyone, not that you don't speak for a minute. Why don't we talk a minute? I had a debate, and I asked the minister exactly as many articles as you can remember. I can count the questions I've asked now. I haven't got the answer yet. Both Article 17 and Article 19 and paragraph 2 to clarify this law. Therefore, I know that it is your intention and that you are changing the Rules of Procedure, to prohibit me from speaking. But you won't. If you forbid it here, you vote I'll go to those places where you think I won't come. I'll be less in Parliament, but I'll be where it hurts even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69804	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, you have re-abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I am really asking you not to do so in the future, because I will be forced to give you some firm measures on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and of course you can apply to the board of directors if you're not satisfied with my answer. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69805	Dear fellow Boric, you are so obsessed with the Most, with our presence in the Croatian Parliament. And let me remind you that among the 10 most active representatives in the Croatian Assembly there are four MOSTs, meaning four MOSTs of 10. If you're looking at how many of us there are in club 14 and how many of us are here, we're the most numerous again. And at least it's me and my colleague Bulj, and you keep calling us in the assembly all the time, and we keep picking up. There's a colleague, or chairman, who doesn't respond very much to what my colleague Bulj is saying, and you call us not in the assembly. Make a deal between you or you are this Seks current, and here is Miljan Brkic, or vice president on the other side. I see you're defending both Shex and defending this law. So, as far as everything you said was concerned, we didn't deceive the public. We made concrete remarks here, presented articles of the law that would limit access to archives, and counterpart Misic also made the truth that he was talking about some kind of lustration. He wasn't talking about anything. He's only interested in being part of the ruling structure, he'll argue with whoever he needs. So he didn't say anything, and the lustration at this point in the way that some have advocated it is not possible to implement it, but it is possible to leave the archives open, that those who participated and were co-workers of the regime at least be questioned, and even here in the Croatian Parliament, and that bothers you, fellow Boric, and bothers and colleagues with Glavas too. The same good colleague Bulj said the same as he did when MOST abolished Stjepan Mesić's office. And then Karamarko was in the government of the Republic of Croatia, and it was filmed defending Stipe Mesic's right to do so, and he advocated that the office should not be abolished. That's true. And MOST is the one who lifted Stipi Mesic's office and MOST is the one who opened the archives that you are now closing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69806	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. You obviously haven't heard from your buddy Butt about the subject of conversation, so don't do to anyone else what you think is wrong for you to do. ... Mr. Grmoya, so I'm just asking you to listen to your fellow Bull, so here he is, always right, he's gonna listen to him and don't step away from the subject. [[I can't hear you.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69807	Article 238 Mr. Grumoja, when Karamarko announced the lustration, I was at the Most and there was pre-election activity and it was debated at the Most. And I told Gody Petrov personally that he needed to open the archives. He said let's leave it, it shouldn't now, it doesn't matter. Ask God Petrov if he remembers other people who sat. There was at least one 18 of us. And you, I don't think you were at the time because you were in Metkovic, you weren't present at the sessions. You've come very rarely. So you can't say I was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69808	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic. I also don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. And you, too, have in one way abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because you have spoken of a subject that has nothing to do with the current subject. If you are not satisfied with my response, you have the possibility to submit a request to the committee responsible. We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Nikola Grmoy's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69809	He injured fellow Mišić article of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Article 236. Everything he says isn't true. He never answered any questions, and as I said to the lustration team, you were working with those services, and you were defending Stipe Mesic and today you're defending him and you're defending Vladimir Seksas today. It's the same click, same team, and Ivica Misic is among them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69810	Mr. Grumoja, I pray you, when you're raising already an injury to the Rules of Procedure at least consult that Rules of Procedure, and then you have to state why he's hurt business. Point 236 is not the reason, but it only gives you the opportunity to say, injure the Rules of Procedure. You also have the same answer as Mr. Misic, do not abuse it. And in the future, get a little information on the rules of procedure, so we don't turn out to be insecure in this High House. If you are not satisfied with my answer, you can also submit a request to the committee responsible, and I ask you not to use or abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure in the future. Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, dear fellow colleague Josip Boric, I hope that you will stick to the topic and that you will not deviate from the topic which is now... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69811	I'll stick to the subject, Madam Vice President, of course, of course I'll stick to the subject and respond to what my colleague Grmoy's been doing to me. A colleague of Gromje, if you will use the language of social networks or Facebook, after leaving Vlaha Orepić from the Bridge, the bridge is on the apparatus. And that frustration of yours, it becomes a burden for this assembly, right here, and you're trying on individuals, chasing some tiny political points. And it's not correct, you call people by name and last name, you call laws some names, which, dearly, you want to hurt, you want to offend, and we know from which circle the whole story came, who is PR Mosta, etc. And why the whole story got played out in public. And it would be correct for you to understand once, if it weren't for you to sometimes say the good manners of this Croatian political scene, and all the other evil people and villains that should be persecuted publicly in this assembly. And that's why it would be good for you to accept your moral responsibilities that you have and not touch everyone because people here exist and to answer you and we will no longer agree to it, that if it's not your way, as children in kindergarten, then if you took my toy, we will leave and disagree with nothing. My debate went in the direction, to say, that this law did not close the archives, however, that it opened them up further, and you went with another thesis. It will show time, as shown by the concession law, that you have failed completely. And if you think it's different, move on and you're not banned. But if they're closed by you, then I'll say this, then I'll come up with all these archives, right, right here, to put in an amannet of my colleagues Buljo and Grmoja so you have something to do your whole life. Was that satisfactory for you? There.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69812	I thank my colleague Boric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate... Mr. Bulj, I would like to ask you nicely if you need further explanations with Mr. Boric, step out of the assembly, and do so at the bar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you don't have any money, I'll lend it to you. Next debate, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69813	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, this is before us a bill of law, therefore, a new law which we knew would come to a parliamentary debate eight months ago when those changes were made in May 2017, so it was already clear and it was understood by everyone that the Ministry, then the Government would propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of a new law, which in the whole way, this topic of archive material and in general about archives will be processed. So that's something that was familiar and it wouldn't have been good at this point to say, if we didn't have the need for this law, because we knew and then we accepted that such a law had to be passed. So that's the first point. The second point is that, today, we heard from the minister, that she would, when this law came into its final version, have formulas that would be acceptable if possible for all clubs, taking into account that those changes, which were adopted in May 2017, which really opened the archives then, which they did, the archives are open today and that should be said and these changes were accepted by a large number of votes here in the Croatian Parliament, practically one consensus. And I think it's good, so there's one openness by the government, to hear, to accept all observations, notes, sometimes critical remarks, and from part of the opposition, but as we've seen from part of the ruling coalition, such as. presented on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Party, HSSLS and HDSSB Club, a colleague of Darinko Kosor. Who's brought up a lot of things that I agree with. I think that in this context, such flexibility, which will be needed in the final version of this law, is one truly complete development of this topic that can be acceptable to most, if not all the clubs in this Croatian Parliament, we need to highlight some things here and here, which give us some flexibility, I think also the Government to try to find those places that will also satisfy the interest of the different sides that are articulated here today. In that regard, I think that when we raised our hands eight months ago for those changes, which opened the archives, raised our hands in the Parliament, raised our hands in the government, that we did not in any way go against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that we were not against setting some dates, for example. like the Christmas constitution, so 22.12.90. We did not reduce the importance of 30.5. I don't feel like when I raised my hand for it, eight months ago that I reduced the importance of 30.5.1990. It was indeed a turning point in our history, a politically extremely important date. Statehood Day, unfortunately not anymore, should be restored again, I agree. But it is also a fact that certain structures continued to operate after 30.5. that the constitutional order in Croatia was only changed in 22.12.1990 when a series of provisions on guarantees for individual civil rights were then adopted which of course were not covered by the Constitution of the Socialist Republic. And in that context, I think that this topic should be looked at in this slightly more open way and look for touch points here, because I think this is a classic example, of a text in which we all agree on the principle that we are declaring. I didn't hear anyone today, if he said, we want to close the archives, we want to be nontransparent. Everyone stood up for it to open up to be transparent. Now, when so, then we need to find, and there is a policy that is precisely capable of finding such formulas, with which most, not only, of course, the ruling majority, since today we have heard colleagues from the ruling majority, who have had certain observations, but also broader, because I think this is a social topic, which should not be shared by Croatian citizens, but really close this topic. And that takes an opener maybe approach. I am convinced that it is the government that will have this toxicity for accepting and critical tones and some notes that this proposal could indeed lead to a level of high acceptability in this Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69814	I thank my colleague Stier for this debate. Replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69815	Dear fellow Stier, here, after his fellow Kosor of the ruling majority, this was one, in my opinion a constructive debate which respected the facts, and the fact is that the archives were open, that even for this law, the 94 MPs voted in this House, the 6 MPs were restrained, even, from the minority club, one MP supported this bill. Unfortunately, SDP colleagues supported the proposal in their first reading, but then the others, so they refused to vote, were exempt from the vote. I'd be happy if they'd supported that proposal, too. And I think we definitely need to respect the state, which is, which is that the archives are open, that any changes that are proposed, we are not against the Ministry of Culture sorting this whole area, so that these changes should remain on the threshold of that openness that we currently have. And what you said, to respect the attitude of all the clubs here, means that this condition that we have needs to be maintained in terms of openness, and all unresolved issues that need to be resolved, of course, that we will support it as a club. So I commend this debate of yours, and I have already commended my colleague Kosor in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69816	I'd like to thank my colleague Grmo, the answer, my colleague Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69817	Comrade Grmoy, my intensity, is that on these issues, we go with legal proposals, which will not further divide our society, but we have a lot of divisions. I think that when we talk about principles, that everyone, today, has taken up, for the principle of transparency, openness, we must then in the same way and take very seriously the effort announced by the minister that in this very spirit she wants to prepare for another reading, then a proposal that will be acceptable if possible for all clubs in this House. So, I believe it's possible and it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69818	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Stier. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Jelocac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69819	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker. Here, after six hours of debate on this bill, I must say that I am in some way saddened by the content of the debate that we have conducted in this very important and life-threatening law, which is really necessary in everyday life, all our services in public, from public administration to economy, and which is really trying to solve those problems that we all have together today in creating and preserving archive material. The archive is actually like a body of public authority, a body that stores the memory of society. It is the owner, owner and guardian of the materials of different creators and also different users, from researchers from various experts and what I think is important to say, that the archives keep different documents, different materials, which are important in many proceedings later. So I must stress that it is very important and I am sorry that today we have not talked about these segments, but throughout the debate we have touched two controversial articles, which are not at all controversial at all, but here are constructions based on some words or words that do not stand at all, and we have not touched through such a long discussion of important topics and what is important why this law is important. I must say that many of our fellow citizens in everyday life must reach out for documents in the archives to solve their life problems, to resolve property issues, to prove a legal sequence in some situations, and for these reasons it is very important how the documentation is stored in archives and how it is kept, but it is also important how the creators of the archive material deal with this material. And that's why I think we've been through a lot more through the debate today, and we've been able to touch these very important topics. What I'm saying is that all these documents, or archive materials, that are stored, are not kept because of someone's curiosity, but rather because of the fact that they provide important information and evidence to those who use this material in a later period. I must also say that as a people, it is very important that we know and have a memory of our past, and we also have to worry today what our generations will have from what we create today. That's why I think it's a good bill because the proposer himself realized that today's a number of problems are precisely in how the creators of the archive material can today store this archive material before they deliver it to the archives. It's precisely because of major spatial problems because I have to tell you that because of the volume of documentation, I think it's the biggest problem for the material creators, and we know that the archive material is also not excreted at all, it can't be destroyed until certain deadlines are passed, so the problem of keeping the archive material is very large. And I think that this is what they achieve and what this law proposes, which is digitisation as many modern countries do, is a really big step forward in future storage of archival material, and it will really make it easier for the State Archives itself to keep that material. Thus, the numerous costs we have today will be reduced not only in public services but also in business and in all those who are the builders of the material. What has been cited here today by individual clubs, and indeed without any argument that this bill is a step back from the changes we had seven, eight months ago, it really isn't. And I have to say if we really read this bill the way he writes there's no speech about closing the archives. As the minister, in her own explanation, pointed out several times later, exactly the opposite. So the deadlines for the inaccessibility of archive material are lifted, it is said that archive material, public archive material, is available from the moment of creation, already with the creator himself, which is the newspaper. So you don't have to wait for some material to be stored in the archive, it's available to those who need it, but to the creator himself. I must also say that it is very important that special attention is given in a way to create a list of archive materials, not just handing over material because it is important that it can be searched and identified on the basis of reliable and comprehensive lists. It is also important to say that in terms of private archival material, this bill stipulates that state archives have the right to buy first, and that the legal business done contrary to the provisions that govern it will be impeccable, which, under the current law, is not so but these legal transactions... can be filed and subsequently proven in the act of piety. What should be noted, and I also want to say that, as a constructive position, we also want to say what we think in the law would be good until the second reading to try a little bit better maybe formulate to be in a way easier to implement later, that is with Article 26, which regulates this right first purchase from the owners of the private archive. I don't think this whole procedure is the only thing that's prescribed who's going to control it, so I think it'd be a good idea to prescribe that it's just in practice that it can be properly implemented. Furthermore, what I want to say is that in Article 19(2), I find it quite different from what has been stated here today throughout the debate, I think that there should be a little thought here about a different formulation because it is not from paragraph 2 that it is visible who will determine whether a person has been involved in human rights violations and the fundamental freedoms of third parties. As we know it is a very broad term and from this formulation it is not quite clear so I think that because of the subsequent implementation of the law in practice it would be good to think about it. Here I want to finally say that this law of fifty articles is very systematic and has very systematically processed this matter of preserving archive material. Of course, the rules that will be adopted after the law enters into force will be governed by the part relating to more precise deadlines, storage, etc., but what I would also like to stress is that the law also accounts for other regulations, as well as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, which is very important because we are also bound by the EU Directive to take account of this. I would like to point out in the end that I believe that this bill is good and that I believe that some of these things can be improved up to another reading on the formulation in order to make it easier to implement the law later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69820	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branimir Glavas, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69821	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be long. I'm the last one to see you. As for the draft law on archival material and archives, the one that is ahead of us, this is the first reading I think can get a passing grade for first reading. Madam Minister, you've heard enough suggestions in today's debate, objections. I also consider a good part of the unwarranted criticism and, until the second reading, I am deeply convinced that a text will be drawn that will satisfy the vast majority of parliamentary representatives or political parties' clubs in this House so that this bill can be adopted. However, it is precisely because the record or phonogram of this session today will eventually be attached to the Croatian State Archives as archive material. Since this morning the debate began in a very inappropriate and concise way during the media exits several clubs in the Croatian Parliament, I feel obliged to look personally at what was said today just to enter the minutes of this session. During today's debate in several clubs, this law is inappropriately marked as some kind of lex colleague. We all know what those who have said this wanted not to tell you here and your professional services that are doing the final text and the proposal of this law, not to fellow parliamentary representatives, but to the Croatian public who has been bombed for the past few months, media bombarded with untruths in order to make certain people, specifically Mr. Vladimir Seks. He was the first, and who knows where the end would be to compromise in the Croatian public. And because of this, I feel obliged to use these few minutes of public performance in the Croatian Parliament, not thinking that it will come out and break through the media, because today the media will only pass on the first part of the session, and this later on, nobody will even mention it, but even if it gets into the record, I want to say it for the truth. Vladimir Seks, who was insinuated by several speakers in this club, has never been a co-worker of the UDBA, has never been a co-worker of the State Security Service. Since 1971, he has been known and perceived in the Croatian public as a human rights fighter for the Croatian dissident and for the next two decades, until the 1990s since 30 May, so he worked for more than 20 years to promote human rights as one of the prominent dissidents in the former Yugoslav state and in the former Socialist Republic of Croatia. Since 1971, when, as deputy district attorney or municipal prosecutor in Vinkovci, he filed criminal charges against the State Security Service, i.e. the UDBA for abuse and violation and then socialist laws for the opening of postal e-mails, he has been persecuted and labelled as the number one public enemy for the next twenty years. Knowing him personally, I can say that in time from 1980 to 1989, so until May 30, 1990, when the first multi-party parliament was established after the first democratic elections, not only was he a dissident but he was marked as the national enemy number one in the interval. And there are more than 30,000 documents of the State Security Service and the UDBA in which the name Vladimir Seks is mentioned directly or indirectly, directly or indirectly, in relation to cases which the then UDBA or the State Security Service has handled. I'm going to point out that through all those years of the 1970s, so after being shot out of the D.A.'s office, he had to fight to feed his family, that he was working for a while as an independent lawyer. For a time, he was banned from work. For a time, to survive, he was also a representative of the IFM International Human Rights Organisation from Frankfurt and welcomed the first democratic elections in those positions. If Vladimir Shakespeare was an associate of the UDBA, he wouldn't be out of a job. UDBA provided and existentially provided each of her associates with both them and their families. So I'm using this opportunity and the subject we're talking about right now. She opened up, once and for all in the phonogram, in the record of this session of the Parliament, to introduce the truth about Vladimir Shakespeare to a man who is not here who I know very well. And believe me, I have no reason to defend him unless I'm telling the truth. I was in a position and situation when I was unable to answer, for five years and three months when I watched everything being said from prison in this House council hall, when my name was mentioned and what related to my name, and I wasn't able to answer. And that's why I reacted today, and I said that it's extremely malpractice to take advantage of a situation like this in order to deal politically with individuals by abuse of the situation when that individual is unable to respond to his voice. The question wants to hear my voice now because I'm discussing the last one, since there's no television transmission, since that's not what the media is interested in if the media was interested a few months ago in opening an affair, not the media, but those who served those media to abuse these media and spread the truths about the man. However, I am deeply convinced that this too will make a modest contribution to record in the near or distant future, remember, and learn the truth about the case. Madam Minister, once again at the end of this presentation, I would like to stress that this bill of yours in the first reading, as far as I'm concerned, has given you a green light, and I am deeply convinced that with the work of your expert team you will appreciate and a good part of the remarks you have heard from other political clubs and that in the second reading, we will have one proposal that we will be able to agree more or less on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69822	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavas, for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69823	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Glavas. You, of course, have the right to see things, you have the right to protect who you want to write panegirics, but the historical facts seem to be a little different. The UDBA documents were authentically spoken by a man who transformed UDBA into SUZUP Croatian secret service Mr Smiljan Reljić, a member of HDZ and who clearly and unequivocally confirmed what the media wrote. Therefore, you must first look within the ruling coalition for those who make such statements, and only then do you have to deal with someone within the opposition. As for Mr. Shakespeare as a human rights defender, we've seen how wonderfully he defended human rights in '91, '92. the years when men disappeared in both Osijek and Sisak, and in some other places. We saw how he defended Croatian rights when he transferred, located and arrested Croatian generals extradited them to The Hague, organised warrants again through secret services that these generals sought and not only in Croatia but also in foreign countries. On this side, be absolutely certain that there will be people who will present different opinions than you and in this sense the only thing I can say is that I appreciate what you have done until now, but it is very good for Croatia that your time and time for Mr. Shex has definitely passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69824	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. I ask you nicely, fellow Bunjac, not to communicate in a way that demeans any fellow parliamentary representative and that you do not judge because we are not invited to judge or decide whose time is past, whose time is now, the Croatian voters decide. Answer me, fellow Chief. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69825	This part of you answered what I was going to say, and I'm just going to add it up, and you just happened to be wandering here in this first term. But I'll be back to square one. Mr Smiljan Reljić was the assistant minister for SUZUP, so the assistant minister at the time I was actively in politics and in office. And allow Mr. Smiljan Reljić's relations and relations within HDZ to have a little more information than you do. You heard about Smiljan Reljic two, three months ago when you read the interview. Smiljan Reljić deals with Mr. Seks, and ask yourself a little bit about history and origin, the family background of Smiljan Reljić, so it will be much clearer to you. Mr. Shakespeare is indeed a man who has never been an associate of the UDBA, and that is my responsibility. As far as his political activities and political work are concerned in the last 27 years, I will not appreciate this place or topic. Indeed, I am the last person to perhaps defend Mr. Seks, the last person in this Croatian Parliament or between politicians, but what is not true is simply not true. There may be things you can say about Shakespeare, but it's not about the widow's informant and the thief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69826	Thank you, fellow Chief. I will also ask you as I have asked my fellow Bunjec not to belittle your colleagues and not to do to each other what we do not want others to do to us. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69827	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavas, it was clear this morning when the debate began that she would be abused at some point and that individuals would try precisely on the story that had long created the impression that this law was being passed again for individuals, so the instructions and names were in the course of the debate. And it is regrettable that they were able to determine that exactly the law we passed in 2017 in the fifth month when we warned that such a situation would happen, that the victims of that time through this law that we passed, might also become victims of this time. And unfortunately, it happened and someone abused it for some kind of political breakthrough. And it's good that you're talking too, and I'm talking too, because these people, unfortunately, aren't here today, and I can't defend myself, and someone's calling them. And it's not a simple thing when someone labels you, and there's probably no big arguments, but if they're not there, we'll make them up. And nothing is different. There were, there weren't any, if we make them up, if we repeat them 100 times, that's how it's gonna stay. Now you've been telling history and you've been talking about Mr. Shakespeare and what he was and why he was being persecuted, so we can't deny or forget that he was the man who created this country since day one. And to discuss now, state archives and archival structure, his name would appear as the main culprit for all or all things, to label him and leave him outside, to the public for assessment. It's incorrect of these people and I've been trying to tell them all day. If he were here, he'd defend himself, he doesn't need any lawyer or any parliamentary representative to speak for him. But it is often done in this House, and unfortunately some have clearly learned their trade and are trying to hunt political points and it is not correct and I keep warning it. That's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69828	Thank you, fellow Boric. My fellow Chief, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69829	I agree fully with you, fellow Boric. These are exactly the methods used in the calculation of both individuals and policy options. If you're not a thief, then you get married. If you're not married, then you've destroyed the economy. So also, I have to defend myself, I'm not married, I haven't experienced it yet, even though there's a chance from the bed of sedition going on, this, this, that, but I'm not afraid of it at all, whoever has something to get away with. So now that I'm not married, I've been a thief for a while, I've stolen an economy, so when they try to find out what I stole, they find nothing, and then I'm a war criminal, then you're going to go to court, so when it's not, the question is, what's going to happen to that? Now he's responsible for destroying Slavonia's economy, you might think. I stopped being mayor in 2000, so for 18 years, but persistently, persistently, Glavas destroyed the economy, Glavas destroyed the economy, so that here and Bunjcu would come into the head, says your time has passed. If my time is over, that's what the voters will say. I got nine terms here. And it's been a natural journey, after nine terms, after 28, 30 years of politics, is, but if they were smart, fools would rule the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69830	I thank you for your response, dear colleague Glavas. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69831	Thank you very much. Here I would now finish in the name of the club just to say i.e. I would refer to colleagues who have said that we define in the end that the current Archive Act, which was adopted in the fifth month of 2017, were essentially archives, it was also concluded by Mr Stier in an individual debate, Mr Kosor in the debate on behalf of his club and Mr Hasanbegovic, and that is the fact that the law is currently valid, that open archives, historians, people who will deal with not what the populist tried out of the bench of fellow Boric here shows that this is what makes us... I wasn't in archives or doing it, but it's an archive for people who deal with history that they can work on it, explore it, and that's what's supposed to be on everyone's side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that here all the time there have been a key few questions that I will repeat to the minister, we see that she appeared on behalf of the finalist, only to say, mostly this proposed Archive Act, Article 19(2) excluded from the protection of personal data only those persons who were at the same time a member or a co-worker of state security and acted as a duty, only two people from the former system in the thread opened their archives, everyone else is protected. Now the question is, is this closing or opening? Of course, this is the closure of the archives, which is why we are witnesses, which is why I will not enter both the ways and the models for which it came after 8 months since we fellow parliamentary deputies then almost unanimously accepted this Archive Act, I know that it was a pre-election time, that it was unfortunate for certain political parties not to accept this proposal, but here, it didn't pass much with closing archives. We must tell the minister at this time, the minister must publicly acknowledge that these articles are essentially closed archives and this is the legitimate right of the Croatian Government now current to propose the closure of the archives. However, at this point, I again find that most of the parliamentary clubs and in individual debates, even from the majority, counterpart Ivo Stier said, a respected representative, who has experience both in diplomacy and in the EU parliament and who was foreign minister, who said that at this point, and we have witnessed archives opened. This law definitely closes. Only two people open themselves, according to which officials were high, only two, all of them are closed, which is why, so I have a number of more questions that we need from other colleagues here, I have highlighted on this article 19th, but we have Article 17(5), where we have the discretionary right of the Croatian government, certain persons, who will show what national interests the archives will open, which they do not. So according to your own wishes because this law is a typical violation of the Republic Constitution, it means selectivity in opening archives. I do not believe, here is Zlatko Hasanbegovic, I do not believe that my colleague Šipic would not support what Mr Hasanbegovic said, but in the first reading it is supported. I know when the election was that these people were walking across town to win over the people who took that worldview. They're facts and easily confidential. I would expect the minister here not to attack the parliamentary deputies, which is why parliamentary deputies are asking. At this point, I am not interested in who was saying "location, arrest, transfer, process", the most prominent sons of the Homeland War. Is that what Miro Bulj, Vladimir Seks said or did someone say on behalf of Stipe Mesic or Ivo Sanader? Whoever said that, let it scratch and defend it in Parliament, but whoever said it, we have it documented on videos, today it's technology. However, today and through this proposal we have digitization where we are all for it. We don't mind getting up to date, but we're not about being destroyed selectively, digitizing these documents as much as possible. You refer to it yourself with this law. So this is an archival structure that needs to be guarded for the future, mainly because of history. Most of these people aren't even alive, and of course that's what's important because of history. I would only ask the minister to answer the questions asked by her colleagues and, once again, I would like to thank all the MPs who said, here had the courage to tell the truth that at this moment, according to the law of 2017, the archives were open, and I am finding and asking questions that the minister could not answer by this law now is closing the archives. That's a fact. Everything else we can talk about right now, and the minister won't answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69832	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Bull, for the final word. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the end of this truly interesting debate, I would like to thank all MPs and MPs who have helped us to see some of their useful suggestions. That's why the law goes into two readings. And we will certainly consider all your proposals and hopefully be able to comply and come as soon as possible with the whole of the law. I would now if you would allow me to try to repeat some important thesis regarding this law, and in part as an answer to Mr. Bull who asked the question and regardless of what I answered several times today, I will answer it again. So, in November, the government adopted a new Bill on Archive Papers and Archives just as we were announced in the plan of normative activities. When the Croatian Parliament discussed amendments and additions eight months ago and when both the Croatian Democratic Community and the then Government supported these amendments and additions, we said that it was already in preparation for the new law on which we worked intensively, and we formed the working group already in February. So we didn't do anything that wasn't announced and we did it in we consider democratic procedure to be a broad public debate. Here, several times during the day, the thesis of opening or closing archives was repeated. As the first term of opening or closing archives in this law does not exist, nor does it exist in amendments to the laws adopted 8 months ago. The term used in the law on archive materials and archives is accessible. Now the current law says archive material is available 30 years from the beginning. The law we're proposing says archive material is available immediately. If someone can read it like closing the archives and after so many times we've repeated it, I have to admit I don't have the arguments anymore. So I'll do it again. The current law says that archive material is available 30 years after creation or colloquial as it has been said many times today, archives, for example, are opened in a colloquial manner if this is more understandable 30 years after creation. We propose a provision under which the archive material is immediately available and already with the creator, therefore and without being handed over to the archives, which is fully in line with the Law on the right to access information. If anyone understands that as closing the archives, I no longer have any other arguments. We don't change the law this House passed eight months ago. This House has adopted amendments and additions to the 1997 law which has largely become obsolete and for which the government, as well as the previous Government, and the Government has previously established that it should be changed. When the law is sent to the procedure, then all the provisions of that law are open to comments, complemented. So it was this time, although much more than 90% of the text that was adopted in this House eight months ago in this bill was retained. There were very few words here about spatial capacity, the development of service, new standards. And what he was talking about on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club representative Tudjman very demanding process of establishing criteria and standards for the creation of digital archives, so also the storage of digital material. This is not only a Croatian challenge, it is a challenge for many European countries. We didn't come here and say we have a nearly solution, we have deadlines, until it's all digitized. It will be a long process where we will have to establish standards with great care. We are now preparing documentation for a project that is now allocated to it 80 million kunas for the digitization of an archive library and museum building, one of the basic parts of that project will be the establishment and supply of the necessary equipment to implement digitisation. When we talk about digitization, we are talking about digital storage and we are talking about two processes. One question is the digitization of what exists today in a material, i.e. paper form. And there is, of course, a question of standards and decisions that will be made at speed and which will be the priority of digitizing. What's a key question for the future is how we treat the material that is now produced in digital form. Under today's regulation, what's already perfectly legal, to distribute and form in digital form, we need to transfer to paper to keep, in accordance with the rules in force. And that's one of the key questions. So we're not talking about next year's solution, 2 or 3 we're talking about how it's going to work out in the future. One important topic to highlight regarding the law, amendments and additions to the laws adopted here 8 months ago. One important part of the law referred to lists of materials and was then found to be 6 months to collect lists, after which, the government would bring a report on the material. The reason why we haven't introduced provisions for the current law in our first reading, which applies to these lists, is that we'll see to the second reading, which is what is consummated, and we already know that the consummated obligation to make regulations is, so we're done. What will not be consummated by then will enter into another reading. So, here we'll be very consistent, respecting the guidelines this High House gave us eight months ago. Many times there have been talks about Article 17 and Article 19, so it may now be an opportunity to repeat it. Thus, Article 117 states the following “public archive material is available from its creation, if the law does not specify otherwise”. So, the public archive material that comes into existence today, which was created 3 years ago, 5 before 7 or I will repeat, between May and December 1990, according to our proposal, the law is available. It doesn't close and I can only appeal that we don't send more wrong messages to the public. What is limited and this is what is also, a greater number of representatives and established, is what the Government, on the proposal of the National Security Council Office, can regulate on time limits, when it comes to the level of secrecy, data, if it comes to project and technical documentation, protected and military facilities, industrial facilities, infrastructure facilities and other data of national interest or data on the natural and strategic treasures of the Republic of Croatia. These questions are not decided by the Ministry of Culture. These questions are not issues that are governed by the Law on Archives, and I believe and believe, of course, and I am here on behalf of the Government, and I am sure that you share them all, that every modern state has the right to determine its own data concerning protected and military facilities of industrial facilities, infrastructure facilities, etc. In some ways, the data protects you. In addition, it stems from laws, other laws, not the law on archives, which was brought back by this Assembly. Next, as far as art is concerned. In 19th, he was also spoken of in paragraph 2. Re-enactment. Article 19(2) does not speak about whether any documents are documents, archive material is available or not. Everything is also available by this law, everything will be available, because Paragraph 1 shall be made available from the moment of production. So, whatever it is before the '90s. Or after the '90s. Article 19 speaks only about whether for some persons the rights of the Personal Data Act are derivated. And there's a reason why we decided on 30.5. and why we proposed a deadline to the Parliament 30.5. because it seems very clear here, that we can hardly accept the fact that in the 30.5. democratic elections, the persons who should have derivated their personal data were persons who, because of human rights violations, should have been treated. So that's the only difference and the only thing he does is deal with art. 19. Article 19 does not concern the availability of archive materials, as this is governed by Article 17. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: It is whether or not personal data are available by 30.5. without restrictions. And that's all. So, you don't need to mix different categories and I don't think that's really correct about the intensity of the law, about what's written and about what we've been trying to explain in these past few hours. In the end, I would mention something about digitization, and here there have also been speeches about some terms, for which I can only appeal not to be used in the context of this law, and especially the term of destruction. Nothing in archives or libraries or museums is destroyed. The term we use and that already exists today is elimination. The archives may be eliminated if a storage date has expired or if there is any other media on which something has been stored. Cultural heritage, once something gets its cultural property, there's no version of which you can replace it so you can extract it or don't give it to God as it's been said here. The law on archives also needs to repeat it, does not regulate the classification or declassification of any material, it is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture. I mentioned earlier, but very briefly to pass, there is no imposing new financial obligations on units of local self-government, so this law remains within the framework of what has been so far. The rules envisioned by the new law have existed so far, certain irregularities pointed out by the committees will be considered. I think we should also refer to these comments, I think there was an example of HZMO, there's a lot of such material creators that are burdened with the great cost of keeping that material, and I think it's going to be in everyone's interest that that material that can be converted into a digital form turns into a digital form. But I think it's too soon to talk about what changes to the law will follow, because first it needs to be passed whole law, then it should be adopted over a year on how to create and convert and store in a digital format, then it should start to implement it, and only after that will create the conditions that, eventually, in those other laws that you mentioned actually level out digital material and what is materially or fixed on paper. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for all the concrete proposals, the debate was really interesting. In a culture that I often consider to be an area that is not always in the focus of interest, we are pleased when some of the regulations we propose are in such a way interesting. We are also at our disposal to all parliamentary representatives of course for consultations and we hope that we will come to this High House very soon with a final bill that will answer all your questions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69834	I would like to thank the Minister Mrs. Ouljen Koržinek for this final word. We have two replicas, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69835	Thank you very much. Your Honors Minister. We have heard more than once today the thesis that there is not enough space in the Croatian archives for archival buildings and there we could link the fact that in 1997, according to the old Archive Act, it is envisaged that specialized archives will be established. Here may be the design of these specialized archives that would increase the space where archival buildings could be downloaded, and in that sense I would suggest that you might first connect with the Ministry of Defence because all the organized states in the world have military archives, some of them have a few dozen military archives, say Germany has tens of them, they would certainly be interested in taking over this action building, they would certainly have spaces where the archival structure would be kept, and on the other hand, then you would release one part of the space in order to eventually bring some other structure here. It is only one concrete example of the specialization of the archives, it is indeed unfortunate that 21 years since these provisions were passed in law that no specialized archive has been established until today. There's so much from me in the way of finding an adequate space to guard the archive building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69836	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for this replica. The next replica is dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69837	Your Honor, Minister. You said that 30 years is a deadline, yes, you repeat it, but in this law, again, I repeat, Article 19 paragraph 2 and you have not commented, you have also commented on Article 19(1), but here we are talking about Article 19(5) where there is some discretionary right to decide which will protect it. which will be available as you say openness but you speak professionally open archives or the availability of archives will be disabled. One article therefore states that it is open, and basically in Article 19(2), you have closed everything except for two people who can be protected throughout the system. So it's nice to hear in this law that it's been gone for 30 years, but you have one article where only two people can lock everyone up except for two people in Article 19(2). I think if it's accessible, if that's the deadline that... and you don't mean you should tell the fact that the MPs both Mr. Kosor and Mr. Stier and Mr. Hasanbegovic made the current Act on the archives of availability as you say, as we say the open archives of the law valid from the fifth month of last year are simply and needless to say that you have shortened the meaning of these six months before it was 30.12.1990, now it's 30.5. so you closed the archives by this law. It's the only thing you've been stressing for the past 30 years, and you're basically an article. Paragraph 2. You only essentially two persons will be able to be able to open only for two persons from the former state of the Republic of Croatia archive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69838	I thank my colleague Bull. The reply of the Honorable Minister Obuljen Koržinek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69839	After all day and debate, it's really hard for me to find arguments already. For starters, Mr. Bully Article 19 doesn't have five items, it has four. No, you said Article 19(5). You were not talking about item 5 that derogates item 2. I can only remind you once again, when you have made changes and supplements proposed, changes and additions, has been left behind, a 30-year period of availability has been left. So, nothing in the last 30 years which is not automatically available in the archive. This law stipulates that everything created as archive material, now 5, 10, 15, 20 or 29 or 30 years ago, is available. I have no more words, no more sentences, no more ways to explain it in any other way than what I said. Therefore, everything is available, and Article 19(2) deals with personal data. All the matters referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 are available because there is an article 17, which says that everything is available. What doesn't restrict other laws, and those other laws will change in some other procedure, they're not archival laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69840	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Ouljen Koržinek. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69841	Thank you very much. I told the Minister exactly Article 19(2) and Article 17(5)
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69842	.../Intruding Brkic: Dear colleague Bulj./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69843	In Article 17(5), allow discretion... the right for individuals to decide which archives.../Speaker disabled./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69844	Dear fellow Bull... Comrade Bulj, for the third time, you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. 239. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Rules of Procedure, I give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69845	Thank you very much, Vice President....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69846	Please, nice. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. I would like to thank the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Nina Oblisen Koržinek, and the Honorable Assistant Minister, Ms. Marica Mikec, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69847	First is the bill on archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 219, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded and, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on Archive and Archives and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 91 for, 11 abstentions and 6 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69848	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a State Support Act for research development projects, first reading, P.Z. No. 269. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Entrepreneurship and crafts Mrs. Martin Dalic to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69849	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. This law provides for support in the form of tax relief for entrepreneurs investing in research development projects, which include one or more research categories, basic research, industrial research, experimental development or feasibility study. Supports for research development projects have so far been implemented under the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, and on the basis of a regulation. However, this Regulation has been put out of force in 2014 and since then there has been no system of support and incentives for scientific research projects in entrepreneurs, i.e. there is no support system for innovative entrepreneurs and their projects. This support, which is transferred in this law, is realised as a right, to further reduce the base of income tax, i.e., income tax for eligible, i.e. eligible costs, which are related to the implementation, research, or industrial research or feasibility study of entrepreneurs. Acceptable costs and eligible costs shall be considered, staff costs, costs of depreciation of instruments and equipment, costs of research carried out on the basis of the contract, a proportion of the material costs, i.e. all other costs related to the implementation of such projects. Support through tax relief can be obtained for the implementation of its own research and development, when the support user solves its own technical problem or scientific research issue, in order to commercialise a new product resulting from such activities. The beneficiaries of this support can be legal persons, small, medium and large entrepreneurs, and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax, i.e. income tax. The support user cannot be an entrepreneur in difficulty. The support cannot achieve projects, irrespective of which, if they are even of a research development character, and if they are related to real estate operations, activities, gambling and betting, financial activities, insurance activities, social care activities with accommodation, and large and small trade. Companies that will apply for support for scientific research projects want to facilitate business during the process of developing a new idea of a new product and service. In other words, this law seeks to stimulate innovative activity in entrepreneurs. The way to achieve this support, as I said, is to reduce the base of income tax, i.e. income tax, which means that the support is achieved in the form of a reduction in the tax liability. The law lays down the highest limit for which tax obligations can be reduced and these limits range between 50,000 euros for feasibility studies up to 300,000 euros for basic research per project. In addition, the law also prescribes the above limits for the total support that can be achieved per individual entrepreneur. These are the ceilings of 7.5m euros in the case of feasibility studies up to a total of 40m euros in the case of basic research. This means that the law allows an entrepreneur benefiting from this support to use and support the foundations of other legal bases or other possibilities offered to the overall system of encouraging entrepreneurs in Croatia, including the use of European funds. However, the total limit that an individual entrepreneur may use to support amounts previously defined. The aim of this law is also to encourage the participation of entrepreneurs with scientific research organisations on joint projects or to encourage the mutual cooperation of entrepreneurs in the pursuit of scientific research activities. The support procedure itself includes the adoption of a project application by the Ministry of Economy, administrative verification of the application and verification of the acceptability of the users, the project or the costs. This means that in the case of an entrepreneur who appears, which applies for the use of this support, the Ministry of Economy will verify whether the project that is registered for this support has the characteristics of a scientific research project as defined by this law. If these characteristics of the project are found to exist, that the project can be classified or understood as experimental research, industrial research, experimental development research, this entrepreneur will receive confirmation of the status of the promoter. Based on this certificate and on the basis of this status, the entrepreneur will be able to use, over a period of 3 years, the eligible costs of scientific research activities to further reduce the tax base of the profit tax which will, of course, use that support at the time of the application of the final tax on profit or income tax. During the support period, a cost-acceptability check will be carried out and, of course, the entrepreneur will be obliged and obliged to report on the course of these activities as well as to submit evidence in terms of financial documents and other documents that these costs are actually made. The law therefore concludes that it aims to strengthen and encourage private investment in research and development in order to ensure that existing R & D allocations currently moving somewhere at 1% of GDP are gradually increasing to achieve the target of the Europe 2020 target of 1.4% of GDP by 2020, as Croatia has set out in the objectives of implementing the Europe 2020 strategy. What is of course known, yes, and this goal is significantly lower than that set by the EU as a whole of 3% of GDP, which means that this law, together with other mechanisms, instruments, to promote research and development, is a common environment for strengthening innovation and promoting research activities in entrepreneurs. Finally, what the expected effects of the law include an increase in the competitiveness of the private sector, a favourable impact on exports of Croatian products and services, an increase in innovation capacity through an increase in the number of employees involved in research and development activities, an increase in patents and other intellectual property rights. The implementation of this law provides for funding in the state budget. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69850	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for this additional explanation. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69851	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, I have one question, and you have initially said that so far this has been regulated in the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, Article 111, now that your ministry has drawn up this proposal, I am interested in whether the Ministry of Science and Education participated in this proposal because there is one disagreement that I think should be corrected in the way it is in the Strategy of Education, Science and Technology. So here you are quoting and saying at the very end, the Innovation Development Strategy, which says the 2020 target should be 1.4% share in GDP. However, in the Strategy for the Development of Education, Science and Technology, we have the aim of 6th growth in R & D investment and the development of public funding systems and the promotion of investment in the specific and social sector in research and development where it is said that it wants to increase to 2% of GDP, which I believe should also be the goal that will be set out in this legal text. So I'm asking for a second reading to be co-ordinated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69852	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69853	Thank you very much. Well, as you pointed out yourself, the regulation on the basis of which support was granted for scientific research activities in the economy has ceased to apply. We have had one period of nearly 3 years of legal void and this law has actually been created by the agreement of the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Economy in which it was agreed and found that the Ministry of Economy is probably closer to understanding the real problems and needs of the economy and the way this support can be realised. Namely, as you yourself probably remember one of the problems related to the previous Regulation and to the previous phase when this whole process was conducted by the Ministry of Science was also related to the procedure, it was also related to certain difficulties in communication between the then Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Finance, related to the ambiguity of whether the projects that received those certificates were actually scientific research projects, so the overall goal of taking over this part of the job from the Ministry of Science was to better regulate the process and to arrange it in a way that was closer, more understandable to the practical needs of the economy. For these non-compliances in this data thanks to these warnings, this will certainly be corrected until the final proposal. However, what is important to say and what we all agree on, at least hopefully, is that this kind of support should be given and that research activity in the economy needs to be strengthened because R & D allocations are certainly too little.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69854	I thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Dalic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69855	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. As you have initially said, the EU's objectives are to encourage development and innovation research, which is to be 3% of GDP. What has now been achieved is 2.03 on Croatia is here at 0.85, if Croatia is there at 0.85 then it is really an interest to change something and to approach it differently together. Now my question comes to mind, as it has been transferred from the Ministry of Science in charge of science in your ministry and in the means necessary for the implementation of this law, it is said that the amount is secured on the items of your ministry of one million kuna for the purpose of estimating the acceptability of research development projects. So I'm wondering how you pictured it? Whether this will be a special department or you will transfer that evaluation to some other body or you will use outsiders as intended evaluation is because we appreciate that the evaluation is one of the essential elements that it does not bring us back all together as boomerang that what we will through support will eventually turn out to be inadequate and that these are not research-development projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69856	I thank you for the replica of my esteemed colleague, Taritash. Answer, Minister Mrs. Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69857	Thank you very much. So just one of the reasons why the implementation of this support was transferred to the Ministry of Economy are the experiences gained in the evaluation of scientific and research projects during the implementation of the research and development project, so-called IRI, which is financed from European funds. So the European funds are currently in place, currently in the process of awarding calls to co-finance scientific research projects and to identify evaluations, the evaluation of these projects has gained some experience, a base of external evaluators has been acquired, experience has been gained how and how to find these evaluators, how to involve scientific and research institutions in this process. Therefore, what this law wants is precisely in the evaluation of projects in assessing whether they are and whether they have the character of research or not, whether they have the character of innovation or whether they rely on those experiences which have been acquired in the Ministry of Economy over the past years, which was in nature and was the biggest problem with the previous way these support has been granted. To leave this support to the Ministry of Science, we have estimated it meant to miss out on the experiences gained in the part of state institutions that cooperate with entrepreneurs, to reopen possibly again this process with long implementation deadlines, insecurity in implementation, so that the implementation of this will certainly pose one challenge both for the Ministry of Economy and for its department in which this will be carried out. But what is the fact that there is an experience from the part of European funds management that we believe will allow us to put the process in place very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69858	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. I'd like you to watch your time. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69859	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. First of all, we must commend the adoption of this law and its objectives, I think that it is clear to all of us that there should be no dispute. Of course, first of all, wherever we talk about research and development, we need to know that it is both production and added value and the creation of a new product. I'm interested in your presentation and you mentioned it and it says in article 9 of the duration or period of implementation of the project for three years, I might ask if I've come across some texts that it's three to five years here, and now I haven't seen in this bill exactly five years, so I'm just curious or concretely able to suggest that if it's a three-year relief period not to limit the project to a three-year deadline. The project may also be five years of duration having its six, but the use of benefits if this intensity was referred to in Article 9 that can only be used for three years. Therefore, in order not to accidentally indicate the exact duration of the project Article 9, the project implementation period based on the support provided for in Article 8 of this Act may take up to 3 years from the start of the project. So the project might also be 5 years, but then let's say we can make the most of what's 3 years if that was the intensity for this, please, the answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69860	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. The answer to Mrs. Dalic's respected minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69861	This period of 5 years, it is actually a period which, according to the tax code, allows for the transfer of tax losses and what this period of 3 years refers to exactly what it says, is at a time when an entrepreneur can report these eligible costs as a tax relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69862	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69863	Thank you. Dear Minister, here's a purely technical remark. Of course, this law should also be supported, given that it is stated in the explanation, which you have pointed out here, that very little investment is both public and business sectors of research and development. We hope this law will make it possible. Just as I say, the replica of the truth works, the article 8 says, and you said here that in paragraph 2 of this article, the support is realised as the right to additionally reduce the base of income tax or income tax. Why am I stressing that? Because Article 5 states that the grant of state support for research development projects in the further text of support is the ministry responsible for the economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you see, we had here a law on the financing of units of local self-government where Minister Maric said, and we all agreed here, that income tax is left to the entire units of local self-government. And then he would like to point out clearly that however units of local self-government are involved in financing these development projects, it is not just the Ministry of Economy. Of course it's not that, we can't put it here, but let it be known that units of local self-government are involved in the financing of these important projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69864	I thank my colleague, Sagar. The answer to Mrs. Dalic's respected minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69865	Thank you very much. Well, the way you've argued this, of course it does because the units of local self-government belong to the entire income tax. However, what is the point of this provision is that the right and possibility of applying for this support is not only for legal persons but also for nature and craftsmen, given that they are taxpayers of income tax. So what was desired was to open up the possibility of using this support to all entrepreneurs regardless of how they are organised legally. And in the event that the user is one of those who is organized as a craftsman, then this reduction of the tax base or the reduction of the tax paid will be less paid to units of local self-government, it is undeniable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69866	I thank you for your response to the respected minister, Mrs. Dalic. And the last replica, dear fellow Sabine Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I absolutely support the adoption of this law and I don't think that we should actually be concerned about whether jurisdiction from the Ministry of Science and Education and then sports, and today only science and education, transferred to the Ministry of Economy or not. The important thing is to ensure a good controller, I will dare say that or condition of a controlling competition that has led to some problems in the past and what might possibly concern us is the fact that de facto for 3 years we have the legal possibility of granting support for research development projects that users could not de facto consume even though they are legally prescribed because no implementing acts have been adopted, or at that time forms. That's what you and I should be worried about. And secondly, if we've been waiting 3 years for the adoption of a new act, so it's no longer a program that the Ministry of Finance didn't want to sign, so we went to law, I'm interested in if after 3 years we've now got the courage, knowledge and all of it together, why we didn't go one step further and go to an additional rate of income tax reduction for those employees who participate in research and development projects, and to round up this whole story and to keep a high, or motivate a highly qualified workforce to stay in Croatia, it seems even in the public debate that one audit firm pointed out as its own proposal, remark, whatever. I'm not satisfied with the way I'm being held accountable, so please consider that we should have gone to an even more complete solution. It didn't even cost us much more and we'd actually have a much better effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69868	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. The answer to Mrs. Dalic's respected minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69869	I thank you for the proposal, of course, all the proposals that have been made in this debate will be re-analysed. Acceptance or non-acceptance of this proposal depends, of course, on the Ministry of Finance, on the fact that income tax in this case is an employee of this project and the income of units of local self-government as previously pointed out, so I thank you anyway for the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69870	I thank you for your response to the respected minister, Mrs. Dalic. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69871	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Deputy Prime Minister. The scientific research development of projects should be encouraged, of course as little as possible to the harm of units of local self-government and I do not know from all this is you have consulted with leaders i.e. with associations of cities in the Republic of Croatia. Yet one part of the funds goes away, means income from craftsmen in this case. And of course the triba is working on this and science needs to be explored. However, sustainable development is very important both on the Adriatic because Croatia has a territorial majority of territorial waters than just surface waters. I expect that there will be sustainable development, that these projects that will be evaluated, that are encouraged to have these means not only to talk about EU funds, but to have teams of people who are already ready to assess what these projects are. To avoid harmful projects such as the Perun thermal power plant, where you attacked me with no eyes at the time. I am, after all, a man who forgives, because in the end you must confess 67 scientists to this project by Vis Viva, owned by Mr Buric, your colleague. Yet then this project of 67 scientists... so that we Assembly representatives speak in good faith, not against you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's when you stepped forward. And I believe that scientific research projects, science with very little use of science, can be preserved, that we also try other legal regulations and the protection of our mainly Adriatic, do not allow it to explore how anyone wants, how anyone wants, and thus the environment threatens, of course, what is most important to be this sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia. And once again we at the Most are for this proposal along with of course... Amendments set out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that until the second reading and contact local self-government units, i.e. The leaders, the association of cities in the Republic of Croatia and the municipalities and that they would indeed have no objections either. Because the simple promotion of this entrepreneurial and scientific research is, in fact, the development of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we're trying to base on, but it's not exactly as convenient as it happened in the case of the Perun thermal power plant project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69872	I thank my colleague Bull. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Mr. Bull, I have a question for you, so tell me the truth. Have you even looked at this law? Here, please tell the truth, because if you looked at it, you'd see that in no way is seen from the definition of research and projects themselves, limits, etc. It can't lead to the construction of a hydropower plant or anything like that. So it's clearly defined what is fundamental research, which is industrial research, which is experimental development that can get as far as prototype level, so that in no way can what you're saying go wrong there. Another thing I'd like to mention is that you mentioned income tax. So he's involved, he's explained because of the crafts, but by the nature of things such projects will be very, very little. So craftsmen involved in research and development. Of course, if they are involved, and one of the objectives of this measure is to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Well, in that case, I think the extra value that we're going to get from that, and there are some bonuses in there, right for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, is going to be added value from which the local environments in which they act will benefit. So I think it's just a plus, so this should be seen as something that stimulates the economy, which has a multiplier effect, and not something that will just be taken by units of local and regional self-government where that effect will certainly be very small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69874	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Answer, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69875	Here's a law with a colleague I went from article to article, and you think in HDZ that you're relevant, so all you need from inclusion, location, transfer it to this political, to the drilling of the Adriatic, to energy, to the setting up of directors. You're the only ones who are relevant and you're the ones who will evaluate because I read the article. Did you read the law? How many articles are there? Here's the answer. I'll let you have your time. Answer, rise and tell us how many articles there are. Here he is in my hand. I'll tell you how many articles there are. So you think you've drunk the mind of the whole world, if you're good with the Prime Minister. You're not! You're not! Because if you were doing your job, if you hadn't deceived the people of Miro Bulj, you wouldn't have been in Parliament, and you wouldn't have put this kind of effort here. Miro Bulj happened to be 18, 19 years old when it was the Homeland War, so I went to war. I didn't get a job in '92. The foreign ministry, since I was a soldier for 20 years. And it is regrettable that this country has been brought into this situation, which has no longer been used by science in research, and not by guessing, as is the case with Peru's thermal power plant at the hands of our Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic. It wouldn't have happened if our water had been compromised, the Adriatic was compromised, the whole territory was compromised. You're relevant to tell me if I've read it? Did you read it? How many articles are there? Here's a clear question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69876	I thank my colleague Bull. Dear fellow Bully, I'd like to ask you nicely, please don't. So don't give your exposure away from the general rules of conduct and don't disrespect any of the MPs with your exposure. I'm asking you nicely. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The violation of article 238, Mr. Bulj, as well as very often did not speak at all about the subject. And as for the law, if I may answer, since I'm personally called. So this law was a good part of him that was made right at the Ministry of Science when I was assistant minister. There are 23 articles, so I think I know a little more about it than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69878	Thank you, dear fellow Sokol. I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt. And I'm asking you nicely, please don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because I listen very well to what they say. If I were to strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, there would be few of them speaking and not speaking for very long, so I believe that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured and you, if you are not satisfied with my reasoning, can submit a request to the committee of directors. Here you go, Mr. Bull. You already have one warning. I hope you don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69879	Mr. Chairman, you are violating the entire Rules of Procedure. You warn me that I insult the MPs, and your party colleague, I know, that in many important matters to you in the party hierarchy, he gives you a voice to lobby for you. You do not warn him, and he says you have not read the law. And it takes him half an hour, and I'm giving him time to whisper to him how many articles he has. So much for science and science. Because if those political elites were doing their job, you believe me, Miro Bulj wouldn't be sitting in Parliament. Well, don't believe me if you were doing your job, if you were doing your job, you wouldn't be. You've been under the towers of this light all along. It's such a closed bell and it's like that and you just brought the state here where it is. Because otherwise, I wouldn't even be president of the local committee. If it were up to you, all the articles would have been broken by the president, the Speaker of the Parliament at this point, everything. He warned me, didn't warn him where he insulted me that I hadn't read this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69880	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt and don't teach me my job. When you sit here, then you will evaluate the basis of the Rules of Procedure, and until then stick to the Rules of Procedure and please do not abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69881	Col. Bulj, given that you have referred to the allegations of colleagues of Zhagar, related to income tax, when he is being reduced to craftsmen, which the minister explained, I don't know why you think local leaders would be against it at all or would be damaged. So if some craftsman in Cetitska is developing some new product, doing some kind of research, local leaders, I assure you, that not only would they give up income taxes, but to further stimulate and encourage it. I also believe my colleague, Šipiš, and all the other leaders in the Cetina region, as well as throughout Croatia. I don't understand why, in this case, you feel that local leaders would object, and in other laws you mention that local leaders are some sheriffs who need to be taken away from everything and powers, and as far as decentralisation is concerned, that they should not be implemented in the manner in which they are implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69882	Thank you, dear colleague Roscic, for your reply, colleague Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69883	Dear young colleague Roscic, I don't know if you've seen that I object, I'd like to talk to the mayors, maybe local self-government would be involved in getting to know this part and, in this way, be even more encouraged by this scientific research. I didn't see that I was against it. It's gonna be a late hour, and you just didn't hear what I was talking about. Obviously you are or, I won't now, lady you're not gonna talk about it. I mean, I don't see any reason why you gave me a replica of what I didn't say, but I said that the minister would step in with the cities and the commissioners and get in touch and get ready for this. I don't have any meetings, so I don't have any meanings, any opposition to this law, or I told this law, of course, with certain amendments, because I read the laws as your colleague who just replicated me, who took half an hour to see how many articles the law has. Look, I read it, if it's you, I don't know. Or maybe it sent you an e-mail about what you're about to say. I didn't object to this law, I said the law should be improved. And get in touch with local self-governments, all of them, the entire area of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69884	I thank my colleague Bull for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Representatives Club, Liberal Democrats, Honored counterpart Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69885	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HNS Club will support this proposal of the State Support Act. In fact, as I have already mentioned, we think that this is an important issue and something that I think might reach a great consensus in this House. In modern economies, research and development play a major role in achieving national income in Europe and the world. Of course, the profits themselves depend on which branches, if we're talking about pharmaceuticals, and other industries, where it certainly can, it needs and has its own space. What is today, the situation with us, what is not good, and what this law should in some ways change are certain percentages where we heard here that 3% of the EU's GDP is indeed the target, are now at 2.03, if I'm not wrong. Croatia is unfortunately at 0.85 in 2015. We need to get to 1.4. I'm sure this law will contribute to that, but it won't solve it. In order to fulfill the meaning of this law, it means that in order for our entrepreneurs to get a relief, those in some period that we've talked about here have to earn a certain profit. So that's the first and the basic thing, of course it can be done, we also have financial instruments, in which profit is transferred and retained, etc. However, we know what one year means financially, and we know what that means. As for what is certainly commendable, which, unlike the previous legal solution here, is also being introduced for those who are incomers, i.e. for trades, at least, as many as there are, I hope that this will also be offered by this form of business, i.e. the legal form of business, that it can invest in research and development, above all that is linked to production. Therefore, research and development is aimed at improving a particular product of added value, which can certainly contribute to the development and development of these companies, as well as ultimately to new employees. The only thing you would ask here on page 2 where we are talking about exactly these percentages, where we say that the stake in these 0.85 is practically 50:50 compared to the public and private sectors, and then it is said that 0.44% in the business sector, which is still far from the EU average, which is 11.3%. Is that 11.3% of what? GDP, it's not safe, because their 2.23% of GDP, that's maybe 1.13%, maybe tipefeller or 11.3% of the total share in development, which then turns out to be less. If we have 0.44, we're talking either in absolute or relative values. I'd just like to make it clear, which is the goal possible, that one is relative, the other is absolute, but this turns out that they have 11.3% of something that I don't quite know is before 1.1%, so here if you can then, if I'm right to correct myself. Of course, it is extremely important for all of this to create such a legislative framework that is now encouraging investment in research that we know that some of our companies have long been waiting and that this should have been much earlier, but better ever than ever. Of course I am the procedure and what will actually be the sum of the Sumarum and the meaning of this law is exactly the implementing part in which it will take place and call it, to report. The part I mentioned earlier in the replica, related to Article 9, so I might just use more time to explain. It is not a disputed duration of support, which is up to 3 years, but, in my view, it is disputed to limit the period of implementation of the projects. So if someone reports a project that might have its own realization for five years, is it unacceptable,... Whether or not, I should consider that he is acceptable but that he can only be recognised for 3 years fiscal relief regardless of what he has invested in certain developments for 5 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course certain companies can have tens of different new patents of research and based, whatever, industrial, or whatever category they're going to, but let's not limit them to just 3 years because if someone predicts a 5, 6, 7-year study, that on that project they can't use or God forbid they're going to adapt to the project itself, here's what's important. By the way, I think that this absolutely deserves all the attention of the public above all and our entrepreneurs, and that is what will be the next goal, certainly to reach them, to have, after the adoption of this law and these opportunities and, of course, that implementing part which I cannot stress enough times, that it will depend on it. 1.2 million kuna seems a little small, I hope it will be very small and it will take a lot, a lot more resources to ensure, that it will be made expensive because it will mean that we are developing, that we are going in a good direction and that we certainly contribute and GDP growth in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69886	I thank my colleagues Curaju. Replica, dear colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69887	Thank you. Dear colleague Curaj, just one replica for thought and encouragement. And we have recently forgotten this law, I have forgotten its name, we have had one law in our first reading that is related to encouraging research into the development of R & D funding, and I don't think this law itself will get good results if you don't have another set of laws that we expect at the end of the economy ministry because it is also seen here in the light of the law that this refers to encouraging private sector investment. And I think that when we talk about small, micro and medium-sized enterprises that research and development is of the nature of things first because they have to survive on the market and because of competition and therefore invest in such things, however, when we talk about the public sector, public enterprises, research has shown that a very low degree of investment in research and development is because they have their position on the market often without competition, so they have a monopoly, they are not forced into such things. And this law in this part, we hope that it will win results, however, without systematic access, which, ultimately and in its explanation, says that the European Commission is looking for this, the public and private sectors and the scientific sectors, will not succeed in achieving the right results, so I ask you in this direction and just a comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69888	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Curai's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69889	Thank you. I wanted-I didn't want to, I have to answer, my colleague asked me to comment. Yeah, we've seen from a percentage that right now, at our business and public level, they're more or less as bad as they are. One and the other are zero, below 0.5% of total GDP, compared to GDP, and that the secure public sector always has its own burden to bear, especially when we talk about some large companies that certainly have room to improve their business and, of course, rationalise themselves and bring some added value. I'd have remembered maybe last year or before last year, in HEP there was such a situation that one of their employees was specifically not going to name him now, but I mean actually I can Mr. Kresimir... However, it deserves every commendation that it has saved around 5 million a year to HEP for the production of heat energy, so in measuring certain methods of measuring water volume. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is absolutely something to be commended and to be encouraged. However, we know that the state is as strong as its private sector is and that there is actually a goal to be seen as much as possible for our entrepreneurs, climate, development, employment and that is what must be our priority. And this is absolutely that, it depends on management, on smart-managed state-owned enterprises, and it doesn't have to be forgotten, but go encourage let's go first privately and then publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69890	I thank you for your response to my colleague Curai. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69891	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Curaj, I hope it's a lapus or you don't understand, so you say you're hoping it'll take a lot more than a million and 200,000 kunas that are listed. These are only funds that will be used to assess the acceptability of the projects and the funds amount to between 50 and 300,000 euros per project. So the amounts are much larger that, because a million and 200 would be a funny little sum.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69892	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. My colleague Curai's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69893	Thank you. I may have expressed myself a little awkwardly, yes, I'm talking here about 7.5 million to 40 million euros total, but this is the estimated amount for project evaluation. The larger the amount, or the more projects, probably the more work and the bigger the amount, that was my intensity, I may have expressed myself clumsyly, but in general, I hope that it will be a little bit as long as we have the application and how much it will take to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69894	I thank you for your response to my colleague Curai. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69895	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a draft bill on state support for research development projects in first reading. The HDZ Club will support this law, i.e. this proposal in its first reading, i.e. I look forward to its application or effects. In the period 2007-2014, tax relief measures were defined by the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and by a regulation on State support for research and development projects. This law or regulation had certain irregularities and pointed to the need for detailed regulation of the procedure and criteria for the evaluation of project proposals, the verification of the eligibility of costs was also found to be more detailed. In the event of changes to the projects, the same definition should be made of how this is possible in relation to the application and in 2015 and 2016. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports tried to remove it for certain reasons did not happen. After we joined the EU within this legal framework, the aid measures could not be implemented at all or have been implemented since 1 January 2015. Following the obligations to join the EU and the validity of Regulation 651/2014. the year from 17 June 2014 we will also grant support for projects that have been reported or for the costs incurred after their application in written request, before the work on the project or activity begins. We believe this law will contribute to the objective of increasing private sector investment in research and development, to increasing the number of entrepreneurs investing in research and development and to increasing what is crucial to the cooperation of entrepreneurs with scientific organisations on research and development projects. The measures are provided for as a tax relief for research and development projects and can further reduce the base of the profit tax or income tax for eligible costs, for which valid documentation has been provided for the purpose of proving the cost. The beneficiaries of state support are both small and medium-sized and large entrepreneurs and natural persons who are taxpayers of income tax or income tax. It is also important to stress that all these researches should aim at future commercialisation of the final product, service or process. This law will also benefit businesses to develop new products, services or processes. We expect to increase the competitiveness of the private sector in the Republic of Croatia through investment in activities and research and development and that this will positively affect the appearance of Croatian products and services. It will also increase innovation capacity and that these skills will be poured over to other sectors, meaning support to a particular company that will have an impact on others. We believe that the general conditions are certainly satisfactory, which are prescribed by this law, such as that the entrepreneur has fulfilled obligations relating to the payment of the tax obligations and obligations due to pension and health insurance and we believe that it is the right provision not to encourage research in those projects relating to the property business, gambling and betting activities, financial activities, insurance activities and the activity of social care with accommodation and without accommodation and trade in large and small. What is crucial is that cooperation with the scientific research sector will be encouraged in such a way that support intensity for industrial research and experimental development can increase to a maximum aid intensity of 80% of the eligible costs for industrial research. If they relate to 10% of eligible costs and have the right to publish their own research results. The maximum threshold of the support granted by the undertaking may also be increased in the case of contracts with knowledge research and dissemination organisations, provided that more than 50% of the costs are carried out on the basis of the knowledge and patent contracts purchased or licensed by such organisations. What we commend to this ministry is that they took over this law in May 2017 and that in just over half a year they arrived before the Croatian Parliament in the first proposal. Therefore, I can finally repeat that the HDZ Club will support this law or its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69896	I thank my esteemed colleague Roscic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of GLAS Representatives Club, HSU respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister and Vice-President of the Government with their associates. So this is a much more important law than it would be to conclude for this little debate because it's talking about two things, I'd say. One is a de facto way of returning to some of the state support that we had in the pre-EU period to the national economy, so in companies that are estimated to be in some way of innovative strategic importance for the Croatian economy. And I remember when we discussed precisely this topic before joining the EU, one of the remarks was that we would not be able to give more support in line with our objectives and strategies, we would no longer be able to support the economy, and then we were talking about this possibility of providing support through, for example, funding or the form of ways to support research and development, that kind of project. It's thought of a kind of innovation in the economy. The other thing that is important is that if this is successful and designed in some successful way, especially the implementation that we hope to bring some more money into the field of science, applied science, so research activities that are also very important for Croatia because we know that we are in a very bad situation. What I'm surprised to say in this law is that the Ministry of Science and Education has been completely expelled. I understand, and also from what the Deputy Prime Minister here said, that it seems to be one of the basic reasons why this ministry did not, in the government's view, show good in that, or that I am up to that task. I don't necessarily mean understanding the economic side, so what economic operators should do. But this law provides that the Ministry of Economy also assesses the scientific quality of research, to assess whether any project is unjustly fragmented in several parts, and should be united. In other words, the Ministry of Economy appears as a measure for assessing the scientific quality and justification of research and development projects. Without any involvement of the Ministry of Science, the National Foundation for Science or any institution that would be mentioned here, which would in any way be a measuring, or which in the structure, architecture of the Croatian state, so to speak, is in charge of this area and of this portfolio. I must say, I am interested in the answer to this question of how and how you will address this issue and in which way and who do you think should assess, within the framework of the Ministry of Economy, the scientific justification and justification of individual research proposals, especially since not only applied industrial research is mentioned here. Basic or fundamental research is also mentioned. This also seems unusual to me, because the law says that the special emphasis, I think it is said that these types of companies make up 97 or 98, a very large percentage of the total Croatian economy make up small and medium-sized enterprises. So in Croatia, I would say only Ruđer Boskovic would possibly be doing fundamental research, so that small and medium-sized companies in Croatia would do fundamental research seems unrealistic to me here, although of course I am to use this instrument, to companies that are doing any research, therefore dealing with any projects that are going towards innovation, to ensure that they have as much access to this kind of incentive as possible, that is to say, this kind of subsidy. It may be, I don't know, and that's what the Minister will explain to us, that the mention of fundamental research is here exclusively in the function of opening up the possibility of providing the maximum amount to individual companies where you can grow something that would look like basic or fundamental research. But if that's the case, I have the next remark I'm going to make when I'm going to talk about some articles. This proposal itself is said and this is not bad to face occasionally, that Croatia is, of course, very bad at financing research and development. The fifth worst in the European Union, so the fifth from below. That data was already mentioned by my colleagues, so I'm not going in here especially. What is also interesting is what is said in the very text of the argument on business intensity in financing research and development. So in Croatia it is 0.44% and the European average is 11.3%. What's he talking about? In my opinion very clear and very obvious about the lack of strong industry, because the research and development in this way that they are defined in this law require strong companies. Both financially and by human capacity and in this respect, of course, we have a problem because such companies have very few that can function in this way. So the law opens up the de facto possibility of state aid within the existing EU rules prohibiting state support within the framework of competition-related rules but for innovation research and development allow them, therefore, to one, let's say, a detour is introduced quite legitimately. What's in this law, in my opinion, is quite a matter of criteria. Who will measure it, who will evaluate what is scientific and what is a fundamental project, which is industrial innovation or research. If we are talking about that the main purpose of this law is to actually make it possible in one detour, which is certainly one of the purposes of this law, to enable the financing or subsidisation of companies in particular innovation in companies, then in some of its provisions it is too rigid. I'll come to that, for example, regarding the provisions of Article 12 of this law. One point also mentioned in the law, Article 8, which I think is of interest, is support for feasibility studies. So if it is possible to smuggle, however, but how feasibility studies can be qualified, I simply ask for clarification, how can they qualify as research and development or scientific projects. The purchase of licences also falls under the legitimate costs defined by this law. Now, if, for this reason, we want to simply enable the subsidisation of innovative companies, as I have said, legitimately, and if for this reason a category of basic or fundamental research is introduced which, as seen by the law, provides for the possibility of the largest subsidy in the largest amount, then I think it is counterproductive to what is stated in Article 12, which is if, in some research, industrial and basic research together account for more than 50%, then this is classified as industrial research, so as something qualified for lower support. Is it because it has been taken over from European regulation, at this point I don't know, or we impose it on ourselves. If it is taken over from European regulation, we probably can't do much, but if we impose ourselves, then let's not impose it on ourselves, because in my opinion, it's sensational that any company, let alone small and medium-sized enterprises, are conducting basic or fundamental research in any part. Therefore, if a project in a company that the company orders or works for itself has elements of fundamental research, and the aim of this law is to actually enable companies to be helped, then, in my opinion, where there are even elements of fundamental research, it would have to be treated as a fundamental research if some other regulation did not prohibit it for any reason. So treat as a fundamental research to open up the space of this kind of aid that is the purpose of this entire law. In that same Article 12 paragraph 8, I think it is determined that the Ministry of Economy is the one that assesses the justification of the structure of the project, so what I was saying, separation or not separation, it is, without any consultation, any mention, any scientific institutions, that seems unrealistic to me, and it seems unwarranted to me. I'm not going to talk about all the formulas that are listed here how support is calculated, etc. Something stated in the last article, I will only mention here, these are the situations in which support, so in Article 20, must be returned. And it is said that the support must be returned, I don't know, if the rules are broken, the contract, it's all clear and finally, the support returns when ordered by the European Commission. That I think, and in that sense we will give the amendment, which I think is totally unacceptable because the responsibility to qualify for something according to European criteria for this type of support must be taken over by the ministry. Imagine that you are the company the ministry tells you the project is good, you have support, you can do it, you do it, you do the project and then says e now tell, you have to return, said from Europe you have to return. I don't think it's a practice we can agree to. The Ministry is responsible. So if the ministry says the project is good and you get support, and then it turns out that it's not, then let the ministry pay back the money, let the state pay back the money. You can't transfer that risk to companies that no matter what they get all the approvals from the state, eventually pay back the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69898	I thank the respected Mrs. Pusic for this debate. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69899	Thank you very much. My colleague Pusić, I agree with you in this section where you pointed out the importance and the Ministry of Science in creating and the future of this whole project. What is not said until the end, remains unsaid as the minister has said several times today that certain irregularities have been observed both in the process and in the control of the proceedings. It might be a good idea if they were quoted as being inconclusive, to see what was going on completely wrong. And if this is a solution, then it corrects those indiscretions. In the end, we didn't realize what kind of indiscretions this is about when it comes to scientists who need to participate, I mean, in the evaluation of these projects that are ahead of us. The co-operation of this law was not good either, and we always point out that the aim of this law is to increase the co-operation of the scientific and business sector. It is evident from the fact that I have previously pointed out that it was not taken into account at all that we have a strategy of education, science and technology that has a whole goal of just increasing investment from the private sector in research and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69900	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Answer, colleague Pusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69901	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. In fact, what you mentioned, I had also written it down, so I didn't end up talking about it, and that's the criticism of the present, or the state until 2014 that there were certain indiscretions. I guess it was and I wouldn't question it, but then you don't have to repeat it. 'Cause there's a lot of indiscretion here, too. Therefore, the Ministry of Economy recognises small and medium-sized enterprises and any other entrepreneurs that go into innovation without further delay. But there's no criteria based on which some qualifications, anything, some institution that's qualified to assess whether one project is scientific or not, whether it works or not, whether it's fundamental or what I know is innovative, industrial, any applied, any category. So, that mistake then and perhaps more effectively to be with you than to be with the Ministry of Science. I can allow all of this, but don't let that law be unsettled again because it's de facto arbitrarily without a qualified institution, or at least it's not an estimate of scientific projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69902	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. Next replica, dear fellow Falcon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's because I was at the Ministry of Science myself in the process when the first version of this law was being developed, I could say some things about it. The first thing about cooperation turns out to be that the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy has nothing to do with each other that's not the case. So, personally, Secretary of State Glunčić and I were in the task force together with officials from the Ministry of Economy who produced this law, so the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of Economy worked very closely together, participated and shared the experiences of the Ministry of Science in implementing the first one that was in place until 2014. Just so it doesn't turn out that now the Ministry of Science is completely excluded and I believe that we will continue to cooperate in the production of sublegal acts as well. As for the problem of implementing the former measure itself. So some of the problems that have arisen were related to the fact that the evaluators are very often not in the right way required in the administrative procedure to explain their assessments. And some of those decisions, I'm not going to talk about individuals, because I think those actions are ongoing and they're coming back from court for that very reason. So this was one of the things, one of the problems that proved to be in the implementation of the previous measure with that, but what was the general problem because the previous measure could not survive because it was not in the right way with the EU Common Exclusion Regulation, were not sufficiently clearly specified conditions, etc. As for this return to the European Commission. So we don't have much choice here. So European law is clear. So the European Commission monitors whether state support in Member States is granted in accordance with EU law or not. And if the European Commission finds that any support has been illegal, it must be returned. And there we cannot deviate from the EU's right to which Croatia's right in this respect is dictated. The second thing is that then the user who may have suffered some damage due to the ministry's decision would have the right to other legal medicines and legal ways against the Republic of Croatia if such a thing had happened, but then it is a special topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69904	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Answer, colleague Pusic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69905	Thank you very much. I don't know a colleague who has cooperated in the making of this law and whether the Ministry of Science, Education has cooperated, but if he has cooperated, it's not really seen because the Ministry of Science, Education has nowhere to go and the criteria for being a scientific project or institutions that will assess whether any project is scientific. And as far as I'm concerned, neither the Minister of Science nor Education has any idea, so as far as this law is concerned. And as for the fact that we don't have much to say about EU rules. The institution, which will now be the Ministry of Economy who oversees and manages the project in Croatia, is obliged to assess, assess, hire someone, define who it will be, assess whether any project complies with all European rules. Well, they won't be assessing it. This must be evaluated by the domestic Croatian institution that oversees it. And once she says ok. Then it's okay. And if she said wrong, if she misjudged, then she's responsible. Well, I guess not the man who got ok from that institution. to work in accordance with European rules, because this institution is obliged to implement this law and European rules that are valid automatically in Croatia. Don't wave your head 'cause that's exactly the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69906	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic for his reply. We have, on behalf of the motionary, respected Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Martina Dalic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69907	Thank you very much. I actually wanted to explain a little bit of the issue of evaluation of the election and the way it will be recognised, whether any proposed project, scientific research, is innovative and so on. The point of this law is, in fact, one part and the core of this debate, because it is purpose, to create an incentive framework for scientific research and innovative activity in the economy. It can be diverse, diverse and in some segments, I fully agree with you in the economy to talk about fundamental research, I agree with you completely, it would really be a little bit of a miracle, especially in the economy, like ours. But what is really the meaning of this law is not scientific rigorousity in the assessment of innovation and scientific research contributions, but is actually support in the activities they have, if I may say so, what kind of research innovative character. And that's what I think is one of the most important reasons, which is why this law itself, in terms of some resolute jurisdiction, has been transferred into the economy. How it's supposed to be done. It is imagined that entrepreneurs submit their application to the Ministry of Economy, which means they provide a description and will be prescribed by the regulations. Which means they need to give a description of their project, results and some structure and how that regulation will be arranged along with the cost assessment. This documentation will be given to external evacators, which will be selected from external evacuation bases that exist in the Ministry of Science and also from external evacuation bases, which was built during the implementation or project at the Ministry of Economy and in HAMAG BICRO, so the idea will not, and neither would it be logical to think that the ministry could assess whether there is an innovative or scientific, or scientific research contribution in the proposed project. As I mentioned in the assessment of the projects they received and this call is still going on and on and running for IRI funding, there have been all kinds of experiences. There have been experiences where people are very rigid, one evacuation board there has no scientific research contribution, the other said, if you looked at it, we'd miss it. So that assessment is both subjective and certainly different results. However, what is important, and what is actually a fundamental difference compared to the system we had until 2014 is that support will be granted on the basis of acceptable costs. So in this report of the project, entrepreneurs will have to identify their costs, which they believe will result from the implementation of this activity, the evacuators will look at it, evaluate and say ok, and during this three-year development, support will be approved ex post. Once at the end of the year, they submit evidence of the facts of acceptable costs and if these eligible costs deviate from what is planned more than 30%, external evacuations will be re-engaged. So the point is that the system is to be focused on the economy and to encourage such scientific researchers to do innovative activities in the economy, and on the other hand to prove that these costs are actually done, which essentially minimises any possible return to that support. Because it's an activity that isn't definitive, the evidence is here, the costs are done, if the research didn't work out, that's certainly not the reason, for any return on funds. So this system that I'm talking about is going to be described as a regulation, and the point is that it's going to be put into operation as soon as possible and that one framework is being created, which, and what research projects in the economy have to do, will further encourage and create an environment in which perhaps some other entrepreneurs will decide to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69908	I thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Dalic. We have a replica, a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69909	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, what you said, it seems rational to me, having experience with evacuaters and from an academic mile and, of course, the fact that it's always and partly subjective, my suggestion would be, whether it's determined by a rule or you're going to introduce it into the law, that that list of evacuaters be public. So people know who these evacs are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69910	I thank Mrs. Pusic for her replica. The reply of the esteemed minister, Mrs. Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69911	Yeah, thanks for the suggestion. With the first one like this, I think it's a very good idea. What I don't know now, personally, is whether it's consistent with the system, or whether it opens the question, that those who file project applications know who's going to evaluate them, and then they can influence these people. So, I don't know, it's going to be seen by colleagues, but this way at first, as an idea, it seems very good to me, but my colleagues will see if it's actually possible in the context of the whole process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69912	I would like to thank you for your response to the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Dalic. We move on to the next debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69913	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I've already expressed part in replicas, what my colleague Pusic said also absolutely supports, so then I won't look back. We at the SDP club will support this first reading. We think it is a good thing that finally after more than three years of the problem there is they solve state support for science and innovation, that there are limits to support and we expect that they do. The proportion of Croatia's GDP of 0.85% intended for research and development activities is far lower than the average of EU member states, we heard it today and several times, which currently stands at around 2.3%. Furthermore, contrary to trends in the EU's most developed countries, most of these funds are 55% public expenditure in Croatia. Part of this comes largely because of the structure of the Croatian economy in which more than 90% of all businesses are micro-enterprises with an average of 1.9 employees. It is therefore clear that such a structure represents a very limited potential for innovation and investment in R & D. We know that Europe has a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and that the key competitive advantages of today every company is innovation of entrepreneurship and knowledge or intellectual capital. Although the average innovation index in Croatia since 2007 was 0.26 years old, Croatia has continued to fall within a group of moderate innovators with below average results and lags behind Hungary or, for example, Hungary. Slovenia where it's almost twice the size of 0.60. Secondly, if we look at the 2016 European Patent Office report when we had a situation that was a kind of record year so that year there were 96,000 patents, which was a 40% increase compared to 2015. At the same time, we do not have such trends in Croatia, so Croatia has 3.2 patents per million inhabitants and is only 41 out of 48 of the ranked countries. A similar low rating Croatia takes up according to other criteria, according to the absolute number of patents reported in 2016, Croatia was 26th place among 28 EU member states and 31st among 38 members of the European Patent Office. Therefore, all this shows that in Croatia the problem of innovation is a major problem and that all initiatives that are going towards greater R & D investment should be supported, as this will also mean a greater competitive advantage for Croatian companies. What we can also say today is what is on the trail of what I have been talking about, and it is also highlighted in the proposal for this law, so the need for better cooperation of the business and scientific sector. In fact, we have a big problem here at the beginning, for example. Our science doctors, as a rule, have completed their PhDs at the university, and not in the economy, stayed at the university in the economy with only 15%. The example of working in America in the economy is as much as 75% of the doctors of science actively included in Europe is 50% and it is one of the keys to both better success and Croatian science and also Croatian economy, and then GDP growth will also be more money for the academic community. Therefore, in order to step up these cooperations and sciences and economies, there is a need for various incentives in the economy, but also in the public sector, in order to involve the doctors of science as much as possible in the development of their careers in the economy. And this law goes that way, so we support it. Several more questions that have been left unsaid, so it should probably be put out of force now or not, Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, otherwise in Article 4 of this proposal, I do not think that projects are very well defined, may need to be read again as it was in Article 111, so that some combination is made to make the definition of projects and types of projects better and better defined in this legislative proposal. Article 10 defines technicians and auxiliary staff, but does not define researchers at all, which is not logical since they will be job holders and the highest staff costs. Shortly before, however, the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister explained one of the questions that I have raised to myself here, so it is unclear who will evaluate the reports who will be involved but we have now received an explanation. That is why it is very important what sublegal acts will look like, and it is important that it participates in this in a very good way and also in the Ministry of Science and Education. Therefore, we support this legislative proposal, the text has not yet been fully defined, given that the many shortcomings caused by this text have been linked to the indetermination of the old legal text, so we call for all these irregularities to be corrected in this period until the second reading. What I would really like to draw attention to is that I need to find ways to prevent abuses which also led USKOK to investigate some of the support that was granted from 2000 to 2011, and I also know that banks have declared their credit models innovative products and have been given tax reliefs, and it was definitely not research development projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69914	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, for this debate. Replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Jovanovic, who would only refer to two things, first of all, as far as the concepts are concerned. The concepts are harmonised and taken over to the greatest extent provided for in Regulation 651/2014 on the common exemption, and these terms may not be best suited to our terminology at times, but they were largely unfavourable, because this represents state support which is excluded from the general prohibition provided for in the EU Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, so perhaps some concepts such as the Research Institution, etc. They're making it a little rough. So that's the part. As far as these financial services are concerned, it is good that you mentioned them because it is precisely one of the advantages of this new law, which is that these services are explicitly excluded this time, I don't know if you saw that provision but precisely because of these experiences and certain abuses that were now very precisely defined so that such things wouldn't happen any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69916	I thank my colleague Falcone. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69917	Yes, I agree with my colleague, Sokol, that we are rarely lost in translation and some meaning is lost. Therefore, along with all these fences that we have to have for translation, it may be good to keep what some of our experiences we had in the old text, and I deliberately mentioned these irregularities because it was good that in the opening part of the reasoning of this text were both stated and concrete and all the inconsistencies and inconsistencies were so that we could monitor whether this text that was more effective in solving these inconsistencies, and not that it itself would be inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69918	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69919	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a lot that's already been said, so I'm going to try not to repeat it, but I'd rather be attached to one thing about the European Commission. It means Article 108. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU clearly states and regulations, and there is no role in the country to play one way or another, that it will be the European Commission that monitors whether state support is in accordance with EU law or not. So this is certainly so, and if such support is found to be against EU law that this support will be abolished. The legal consequences of the abolition are known. So what's got to come back. So all legal consequences of an act that has been found illegal and which has been abolished must be annulled. The second thing is that in this hypothetical case, the entrepreneur could sue the state for damages because, due to legitimate expectations of costs and damages he suffered, etc. etc. But there's definitely no room for deviation, there's things that are clear. Now, I would go back a little bit to this previous state support, this previous measure that existed and with all the problems that existed, some of us mentioned about the Administrative Court. You mentioned DORH, etc. But I'd concentrate not on some of their positive moments. In 2011, the Economic Institute carried out one user-incentive study aimed at assessing the principle of additional impact, which included 43 companies, and was found among other things to be the following. Most users, even 86%, estimated that the measure is important for the activity, research and development of their company. Furthermore, on the basis of the direct question of how much investment in research and development would be if measures were not taken, users estimated that this amount would be 76% of existing R & D investments. Furthermore, most users stated that this is the most important measure to promote innovative innovative activities in Croatia according to the total volume of money for which statistics exist. And the results showed that, on average, there is an additional investment in research and development of 19 Lips per kuna of lost tax revenue. Of course, the users had certain comments at the time. So what they objected to most, what they were looking for was an overcomplicated procedure, so they asked for simplification, better coordination between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Finance. This is what is mentioned, the Ministry of Finance as a supervisory institution, especially in part of state aid, making guides for users, introducing the difference between different types of projects and especially between large and small entrepreneurs and extending the period during which the loss can be transferred. So that first measure had positive effects too. Users recognized it, but there were also some things that needed to be improved. I would only give a few statistical indicators related to the implementation of the measures in 2014. So that's the last year when that measure, when new support was approved. So the amount of projects for which the aid was achieved amounted to as much as 618 million kuna and there were 105 users. The total amount of tax relief achieved was 124 million kuna and of that, micro-enterprises were 38% of the users and small businesses were 30%. So we see that most users were just small and medium-sized enterprises, so we can't say that it had any effect. Now we can discuss whether any other measure, perhaps start-up grenades, would be more effective for a few companies than tax relief by nature. But the fact that this support has had an effect on both small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The second thing is that by nature things are great entrepreneurs, although the smallest number of users belongs to that category again picked up the most. But it's simple because their resources are the biggest and they just have the most opportunity to invest in it. So, their biggest tax base is, of course, the most it can be reduced. I would further point out Deloitte's 2014 survey, which pointed out that most companies are aware of existing tax incentives for research and development, but are still at risk. It considers red tape to achieve and encourage tax relief complicated and as a factor that will have the greatest impact on the increase in R & D investment in the coming years has singled out the availability of several types of incentives. So not just this measure, but that it combines itself with more. So what appears again as some sort of reporing time is exactly that, that complexity of procedure. And that's what I hope by this law to improve. I would now like to list some benefits for the users of which are listed by several of these laws, but which I would like to further point out this way. So, firstly, clearer and more detailed rules for the application of the evaluation and the exercise of the right to support. So the procedure itself and the evaluation, etc. the nature of things cannot be prescribed in detail by law, it is not legal matter, but it is provided for in the Regulation. And as far as I know, I think it's well-designed and it's going to work out well. Secondly, guidelines for applicants providing detailed guidance on how to report, clarification of the concepts, etc. are provided. etc. So as part of the overall measure that will continue to be different then. The support provider shall determine the total amount of support that the users previously did not know until the tax administration solutions have been issued. Clearly prescribed steps check the initial acceptability of the project and the cost at the annual level. If the notifier uses other support measures, the support provider shall include the utilisation, i.e. the remaining amounts for use up to the maximum amount in accordance with the Regulation, to the general common exemption. This is Regulation 651/2014. So it's certainly faster and simpler for more project applicants, because the application doesn't need to enter company data, part of the accompanying documentation. So here I'm talking about all these things that will be included both in the law, so as much information as I have in sublegals. It is also important that the increased total amounts for which the base of profit tax is reduced for eligible costs are increased compared to before. And if we compare with other countries, I think we go much further and much more in favour of the users themselves than in many other EU countries. Now, what are the benefits of a supporter? So defined goals, measures. So indicators that will be prescribed by the Regulation, clearly defined criteria that the project must meet to be considered a research development project. So it's about research that needs to be new, creative, uncertain, systematic and portable. Now, of course those definitions are never perfect. It also means that in practice you're going to have to, what from... estimating whether something really represents a project that can compete for this or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's by the nature of things like that, but this law is certainly a step forward in relation to the legal legislation that was before, and especially in this section regarding these experimental research that should result in a prototype. Because exactly what the purpose of this law is to overcome that famous “divine of death, ” where always between basic research and development and initial research and product development we always have that hole where it's really hard to find funding and give a financial incentive so that this project can be commercialized. And that's why it's important that these concepts and these steps and various types of research are clearly defined so that you can actually track the product from its beginning or the idea of it, from the beginning of the idea of it, all of it prototypes. Furthermore, what I would particularly point out is, in addition to the maximum amounts of support defined, and by all accounts, it would not be possible to accumulate too much, is that the excluded projects whose costs are related to future revenues in the real estate sectors, gambling and betting activities, financial activities, insurance activities. So these are exactly these things that have been explicitly excluded, about which there were problems before and about which there is some consensus that they are not, should not be covered by these regulations. And what's important is that the law here explicitly excludes them. And in the end, I would also say, that means what is particularly important, and that is to comply with the relevant European regulations, because that is why the measure from before could not be continued. It is true that, in fact, it is likely that too much time has passed to draft this bill for several reasons that I would not now enter into, cross-sectoral and co-ordination issues among the ministries. But I'm glad we have this final version now. As for the very relationship between the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Economy, the decision to take this part has been made before, means at the time of the former minister and then a working group has been appointed among other things by representatives of the Ministry of Science, Education. It means both at the duty level and at the official level. So colleagues from the Science and Technology Authority took part in it, and there was no secret. I mean, and all these documents are, of course, available to everyone and everyone could change it if they wanted for any reason, so that's where things were completely clear. In the end, I would just point out that this law is certainly a step forward, but I also think that I also know that we have had discussions in the very process of drawing up drafts and some other measures to encourage, not only to make tax relief the only measure for stimulating and researching development, but also some other things. For example, grenades are certainly something that is more favourable for some small companies that have just started, to start hopes that do not have a tax base of which you would actually refuse to tax, rather than give them a direct incentive in the sense that they can launch some kind of research. Well, here's to that and those discussions we had before, here's hoping you'll respect that, too, maybe not in this law, but in some other regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69920	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for this debate. We have one replica. Dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69921	Thank you very much. It's one of the most relevant things that you've said to a colleague, which I don't really agree with, and I think it's completely incorrect. It refers to those who receive support if the European Commission says they have to return it. There is no doubt that if the Commission says support should be returned, it should be returned. The only question is, who's supposed to bring her back? One of the main issues of Croatian legislation is that it does not give legal certainty. We have too many arbitration laws, too many provisions that actually put people in a position of legal uncertainty. And if the Ministry tells you it's okay, if your evaluator tells you it's okay. And you get, say, 300,000-euro support, that's what I know 2 and a half million kuna. For one small or medium-sized company, if it has to be returned, it's death, and no one told her it was wrong. Therefore, instead of saying this when a return on support is ordered by the European Commission, it can be introduced a point that would say, "When the support provider finds that the support funds are used against EU rules." And then we have a clear definition that the ministry definitely intervenes not only when something is contrary to this law, but also EU rules, because the ministry is able to have insight into EU rules. Where a man who produces maybe phenomenal exhaust pots and phenomenal innovation will come up with an idea of whether or not it's the opposite. That's why we have state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69922	I thank you for the replica. Answer, dear colleague Soko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69923	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice President, I mean, I understand what you're saying, but there are some legal procedures and legal rules that are very precise. First of all, as far as the ministry is concerned, and who determines, who doesn't. So the European rules on state aid are both a contract and a regulation that is directly applicable. Of course the Ministry must apply them by definition. So they are directly applicable, an individual can always be called before the court of any Member State, both before the European Court of Justice. It is practically impossible for an individual here to come directly to the European Union court in Luxembourg, so he can be called before the national court. As far as legal certainty of legitimate expectations is concerned, there is a principle. This is one of the constitutional principles, the Court of Justice of the European Union recognised it and, for this reason, of course, the user of the support can file a case against the State for damages. And that part is completely unmistakable. So there aren't any dilemmas, but you can't be the support you got from the state not to return if it's illegal. You understand? So that's just it. Please don't get in my word, I didn't really get in to you. So in practice, it is clear in the European Union as well. I say for violation of the principle of legal certainty and legitimate expectations you can always, always sue the state for damages and then assess and then the national competent courts will decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69924	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69925	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are aware as a state that we are actually investing in research and development of cancer wounds of our economy, our society. We are also aware that 0.85% of the GDP that actually puts us at what I'm not going to say at the bottom, but the last part of the scale when we compete with other European countries is really the alarm bell, the alarm. Because while the other most developed countries of the world are actually competing in who will invest more in research, in development we were not exactly a bright example or we didn't understand why it was important. And it's extremely important, means that through these state support it kind of encourages current firms, but also new investors, to actually invest more in research and development, because all research actually shows that somewhere around 6% income should be reinvested in research and development in order to achieve so much competitiveness. So it's that kind of minimum. And I just wish I didn't, it's been said a lot in debates on behalf of clubs and individual debates. I would only appeal to this government if we no longer had this one legal vacuum that I have already mentioned in the replica to the Minister of Economy, could actually question all those applicants, potential applicants where their legal right, the law that was in force, where they had the opportunity to apply to certain projects. And actually the implementing acts were not adopted and they could never actually consume that legal norm. But that's not the biggest problem either. The problem is that in fact many of them have been forced to go invest in some of the much more stable, more stable countries' incentives. Stability is very important. We know that companies that invest in research, in the development of a more serious company, but those less actually make long-term investment and development plans. It is also very important for them to feel legal certainty, to know that these situations will no longer occur in Croatia and cannot occur. Third we learn from the past, again from bad experiences what counterpart Pusic warned. So it's an extremely large responsibility on the evaluators. That's right, man is a measuring unit that's subjective. We can't change that, but that's what I'd say more perfect than some mechanical measuring units. Everyone may be wrong, but we really need to see it here, and from those experiences, they protect themselves from those evaluators who may have been involved in the evaluation procedures that have been questioned at some point. Can we as a Government, or can you as a Government put through a call for evaluators, I don't think I know that, but I don't see why we can't have those evaluators who have been involved in the evaluation of projects that have been disputed in some previous times can't come into a situation to evaluate future projects anymore. So some kind of control mechanism, to really get from the evaluators what we can get. So, I want a lot of luck to the government in achieving the goal, so this is with EU funds at our disposal where ex-ante is actually a strategy of smart specialisation. It means that, throughout this investment, part of the European funds that we will invest in the development of research through European funds based on this Smart Specialisation Strategy and, on the other hand, through the incentives of the Ministry of Economy itself, I hope that we will succeed in our goal to achieve this investment in science, research, development from 1.4%. Now that we say 1.4% that sounds so pathetic, little and poor, but that would be somewhere in the translation somewhere 6 billion a year that we have to admit and it's not that insignificant money. What I'm interested in is whether we as a state can somehow manage the investment of funds, means that we as a state now have strategies that, whose starting points are some sort of shooting situation and stuff, are some kind of research. Can we see what our research, innovative, export production potentials are? And according to what we have at our disposal, where we estimate that we can be competitive to attract investors, invest wisely, base it on and create criteria, means with a lot of respect for the game and that open approach, but maybe we try to control where the funds we invest will go in a way that they fertilize us multiplely. I think we know that here in this vanguard simply the pharmaceutical industry and the ICT. They're this research and development far, far, far away to say frontal. But we need to see if these are the only areas that we as a state want, we need to develop, where we can achieve the greatest effect not only in the financial sense of the budget, but also in the social sense for the progress of technology, etc. etc. And what I would just briefly warn about, I think it might be necessary to increase the education of potential applicants themselves. In one study conducted by Deloitte during the first half of 2016, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, means now that I do not longer you probably have those research. So, it shows in fact that a third of the respondents at the time were not fully aware of the possibility of using support for research and development, which showed a natural lack of information from Croatian companies, although all companies, a large number of companies were actually saying that they intended to increase years of investment in research and development. And what the respondents detected as another problem, which means that they are not so easy even in terms of these tax reliefs that were carried out by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports was the bearer. It means that they found it difficult to identify activities that meet the requirements for the exercise of the right to incentives and relief for research and development. Even 30% of them, maybe now it's better statistics I don't know, and 28% of respondents found that the criteria for assessing tax relief and support were unclear. It may in some ways be the same indication in which we should work. So clearer criteria and actually much more education, which is at their disposal and what are acceptable costs. I think it's clear to us here that we get into that a little bit deeper or whoever's more interested. But in some parts of Croatia, I don't think you'd even tie that up regionally. I think education and information never enough. This was my humble contribution. I thought I'd be shorter, but here's what I couldn't do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69926	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Replica, dear fellow Falcon, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Voter, there's only one thing I'd like to mention. You said you'd suggest to the government that we shouldn't have a hole again, so I'm just saying it's a 1.2015 hole. So since 2015, we have no regulated state support system for research and development, and therefore new support could not be granted. We know who the government was at the time. The second thing, it was known in advance, means that by the end of 2014, the legal framework that was then in force will no longer be applicable and that such support will not be able to be granted. So it could have been resolved then, and it would have been logical that the relevant regulations were then prepared, so that we wouldn't have that black hole. Well, let's just say since the trouble started, they haven't started with this government. However, this government has now solved them. So it's important, or it's working to solve them. The second thing you mentioned is investment in research and development and European funds. I'm very glad that 2017 was a turning point. Here again, I would like to mention the example of the scientific centers of excellence 373 million kunas that have been agreed upon. The competition for 154 PhD over, the money secured from the European Social Fund, which finally allowed us to start crossing that black hole we had from 2012 to 2015 when the new PhDs didn't enter the system. Many projects provided by the European Regional Development Fund, for synergies with Horizon 2020-funded projects, etc. So in 2017, I think it will be remembered as the year when the big step was made to modernise Croatian science. I hope that's how it keeps going, as much as Mrs. Pusic laughed so rudely on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69928	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Please don't do inappropriate intrusions. Answer, dear colleague of the Voice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69929	If my colleague Sokol, maybe it would be more appropriate for me to say that my colleague Pusic is crying instead of laughing. Okay. As for the legal fissure. One year, here we take responsibility for 2015. Sixteen-seventh is your responsibility. If you could lex Agrokor which is much more demanding, well, so what you're turning your eyes now and you're pulling me by the tongue, you wrote it we don't know who other aliens, fast, efficient in a month we had it here in the Parliament. A much more demanding law will agree with me. This is one of those laws easy, you took two years of easy time. If we're going to do the right thing, but I'm saying we're taking responsibility for these years, not because we haven't passed the law, but because the Ministry didn't grant us a programme until 2015 that was supposed to be the basis. It wasn't planned to make a new law, but good. About that, then I don't want to be any longer. As for the usability of the funds, look at the usability of the funds in the sixteenth year, and in the seventeenth year it is measured by a one-digit number of percentages. I mean, it's a Croatian disgrace. And I'm just asking you not to call on that dynamic, because if it's a Croatian rebirth, then God free me from such rebirths.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69930	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Next replica, respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69931	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna cry because it's not worth crying about, but it's a little funny. However, as far as the evaluator is concerned in your debate. It might be wise for the evaluators to be listed as institutions. The fact is, the evaluators are always subjective. We're a small country. In one community, everyone knows, they take the text and they know who wrote it. From my area, if I take the text I'll know about who wrote it, there shouldn't be any name. And in order to avoid this, institutions could be listed which have the right to evaluate projects. And secondly, as far as these percentages are concerned, there is no need to be fooled. So our 1.4 if we were to achieve GDP, that's much less than Swedish 1.4 without saying how much less than Swedish 5. So these are much larger GDPs and the percentages are in absolute amounts, billions of euros, and as far as research is concerned, research is about what the total amount of money is, and not how much, therefore, the absolute amount of money, and not what percentage it is. So our ambition should be much greater than that 1.4.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69932	I thank my colleague. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69933	You're absolutely right. Two is the kind of goal, the standard, the one decent percentage, the share that one country is seeking to develop, to allow its citizens normal life, but also the space for research, for development, for progress could be just as satisfied, and we wouldn't have to be ashamed and blush because of such a blood count that at this point tells us that we don't really recognize what engines and generators are not just economics but society. And that's a much worse message for us towards ourselves and others than the figures we're talking about. When it is revealed what is actually hidden behind how much we invest in research and science and what it means for Croatian society and how devastating it is for that vision that we all share here in the Croatian Parliament, the vision of Croatia that we want to move forward, that we want to develop, that we want to be a richer country, that we want to give our citizens a better life. And without this, there's no simple assumption that we can realize our vision and our dream.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69934	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy, Ms Natasi Mikus Zigman, Assistant Minister Zvonimir Novak, and the head of the sector from the ministry, Ms Antonija Mršić, for further reasons. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 20.10. It's a meeting at 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69935	Proposal for a State Support Act for research development projects, first reading, P.Z. No. The 269th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. Firstly, the proposal for a State Support Act for Research Development Projects and Others will be adopted, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 103 votes for and 9 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69936	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 20.10 HOURS]] The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 277 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 2 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an emergency procedure in accordance with Article. 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of the Article. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation and by the Committee on Justice. I call upon the representative of the motionor, Mr. Kristian Turkalj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69937	Honorable chairman, respected MPs, MPs, good evening. Here, therefore, we have before us a proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendment to Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, with a final draft law. At the 11th plenary session, the Assembly of the State of Articles, the Roman Statutes, therefore, agreed to amend Article 124. This amendment concerns the erasure of that article. It contained this article under transitional provisions, which allowed countries to place an exemption within 7 years for the administration of a competent court in the review of war crimes. This now erases such a possibility for future situations. So far, 6 countries have ratified and will need this change to take effect seven eight parties, and as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, this change has no immediate consequences, because the Republic of Croatia, for 15 years now, has been a party to the Roman Statute, so this exception has been consummated as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69938	I thank the Honorable Mr. Secretary of State, Christian Turkalj. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69939	Well, I would, thank you very much, Mr. President, here's the motionary I would ask, this ratification of the statue of the International Criminal Court by Roman law, essentially no, no more essentially no more looking for exceptions to war crimes. Can you tell me which states are subject to that? For example. U.S.A., Colombia and everyone who isn't signatories, do you have information that you're going to ratify, because we don't have much experience with the International Criminal Court, because it was selective. This is where Croatia did not set itself well, we see it in judgments, and we know how it all worked. Therefore, can you list the countries that, or if you have information, will be ratified, and especially those that will not, I know the rest that the United States will not, so here's an example, whether Israel will, whether the other countries will sign. Here's just for information, for us agents to know this one about it, here's to pollemize that we know how to get to the best conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69940	I thank my colleague Bull. Answer, State Secretary Mr. Turkalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69941	Dear Representative, so far 123 states have ratified the Roman Statute, only Colombia has exploited this exemption that was scheduled. So everyone else isn't. And which countries will yet ratify, of course, we can't predict, it's a matter of every country's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69942	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69943	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments to Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Something related to the adoption of this law was told by the State Secretary himself, so the Rome Statute was adopted at the UN Diplomatic Conference on the establishment of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Most Severe Crimes. This law confirms amendments to Article 124 so that they become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Article 124 is set out in the transitional provisions which were only to apply to countries which had yet to become party to the Rome Statute in which, in accordance with that Article, they had the right to adopt these declarations, referring to this article and to declare that within a period of seven years after the entry of the Rome Statute itself, they did not accept the jurisdiction of the court in respect of the categories of criminal offences provided for in Article 8. These amendments delete this, given that it applies to the countries mentioned above, it is essential that what the State Secretary has told us that there will be no direct consequences for the Republic of Croatia. The Rome Statute has been in force for 15 years and the Republic of Croatia has not used the possibility provided by this article. The position of the Republic of Croatia is that all States of the Roman Statute must ensure its full implementation in their national legislation. And I'm going to point out more importantly, definitely, that there is no need to provide additional resources related to this law and it's being carried out by an emergency procedure. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69944	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Bacic for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of GLAS, HSU, a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. I thought I'd have the shortest discussion and just say yes, but I'll say a few words anyway. When you catch a pay phone, you can't resist. So we ratify this eradication of Article 124 with hope, firm conviction, I don't know how more strongly you could say, that we're absolutely never going to need any of that again. So that everything related to such a situation, war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide or any such monstrous situation and events that Croatia will never again be in a position to use this provision in any way. It is as far as I know, the whole idea of postponing the application of the article so on postponing the application of this provision for seven years of delaying the accession of citizens to the war crimes proceedings of individual states or the prosecution of war crimes on the territory of those countries was largely linked to both the United States and the attempt to introduce them into signing the common Rome Statute, so to join the ICC and I think it was already signed but was not ratified at the end of the second Clinton term. There are specific reasons in my opinion unwarranted by the United States, mistrust in the judiciary that is outside America's territory. For some countries, it can be said justifiably, but I don't think the International Criminal Court can say that within those limits where such institutions can function at all. So this whole provision states Article 124 is deleted, which means no country can use that possibility to postpone the application of the Roman Statute to any case. And as far as Colombia is concerned, and I think there are several Latin American countries that are, as well as African countries that would be potential candidates. It's a country that's had a civil war on its territory for almost 50 years and is in the process of ending this war and making peace with Fark, so with the main rebel terrorist, whatever you want to call it, an organisation on its territory. However, I repeat, we will support this and I think it is absolutely logical that we have joined both the Roman Statute and the International Criminal Court, with conviction, desire, attitude and all efforts that we absolutely never have to use it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69946	I thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for this debate. This is what we've exhausted all the discussions that have been reported. I'm closing the debate. I thank the State Secretary of Justice, Mr Christian Turkal, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. With this we exhausted all the points of the agenda for today's plenary session, we continue tomorrow at 9.30 not at 8:00, as fellow Vice President Petrov said but at 9.30 Proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy, first reading, P.Z. number 264. Thank you very much. Have a nice rest of the day. Session adjourned in 20.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-07-0.u69947	Final Proposal for a Law confirming the amendment to Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 277. the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law confirming the amendment to Article 124. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, please vote. I find that with 113 votes for, 3 abstentions, the Law on Confirmation of Amendment to Article 124 has been adopted. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we will proceed with the session. Let me just announce the first item of the agenda then we'll take a break. Proposal for a Law on the municipal economy, first reading, P.Z. No. 264. That's the first item of the agenda, but before that, let's take a break. Here you go.
