ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92163	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament and I warmly welcome you all. I particularly welcome the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Andrej Plenkovic, Vice-President, Vice-President and other members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session begins with the regular autumn session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you at the beginning of the session to honor our country by performing an anthem beautiful our homeland. - I invite you now to pay tribute to the dead Croatian defenders, to all who gave their lives for Croatia, as well as to the former parliamentary representatives who died between the two sessions of Stjepan Bačić and Anti Markova. - A moment of silence - May their glory be eternal and thank them. .../All present at the session: Thank you./... Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament have been received by electronic means, any objections to the minutes? Since there are no objections I find that we adopted the minutes of the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament in the proposed text. We are now moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. The final draft agenda was sent to you by electronic means. In the final draft agenda, I included 5 new points under regular numbers 36, 37, 38. 43 and 67. These are: Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, Proposal for a Law on Wine, Proposal for a Law on Librarys and Library Activity, Annual Report on the work of the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2017 and Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half-year 2018 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the example of fiscal rules for the first half-year 2018. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Please engage to check the quorum. I find that we have a quorum of 125 present representatives, and we can rightly decide. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation Rules of Procedure, we will decide on the bill proposed by the Proposer in an emergency procedure. This is point 13. Final draft agenda, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the Final Proposal of the Law. Does any of the representatives have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of this law? If there are no objections, I shall determine that the proposal for the implementation of the emergency procedure is accepted in accordance with Article. 205. Rules of Procedure. There were no complaints written on the agenda which I suggested with the call for the session and the agenda, in accordance with Article. Article 225(3) of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed to be fixed. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 225(4) of the Rules of Procedure can now be submitted only to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session. Do any of the MPs and MPs have objected to the inclusion of points 36, 37, 38, 43 and 67 of the final draft agenda, which did not include the draft agenda that you received with the call for the 9th session? I read the points' names a little while ago, so I'm not going to count them again. If there are no objections, I would like to determine that these points are included in the 9th session agenda. Madam and gentlemen, the agenda is determined in accordance with Article. 228 paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, and should now publish a set agenda in a given agenda in an appropriate manner, but I suggest that if you agree that I do not read it in full, let me publish that the agenda has been established as proposed in the final draft agenda. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. I welcome you all to the beginning of the session. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. Rules of Procedure, I'm going to propose an addition to the 9th session agenda with 11 new points, and then So I suggest we expand the agenda with the following points, 11 are: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profit 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Real Estate Tax Act 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on fiscalisation in cash 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Tax Act 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative cooperation in the field of tax 1. Proposal for a Law of Expenses 1. Proposal for a Law on Court Taxes 1. The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigration Queen The First 10 is in the first reading and the 11th point is the second reading. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Now I'm asking you to engage to check the quorum. I find that we have enough MPs, 94, and we can make right decisions. Do any of the MPs and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of new points in the 9th session agenda? If there are no objections, these points shall be included in the agenda of the 9th session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92166	Dear Chairman, here I am looking for consultations with my club and for what you have done now because I really don't understand how one club of representatives can prepare to discuss the moment they learn literally 2 minutes before the debate. On the other hand, I think I should warn you that you've lost consciousness about the importance of these SMS stories because these laws that we need to discuss today should be the essence, and they're actually laws. According to these working materials we got, there's no real tax charge. I have the right to explain [[Intruder Jandrokovic: Because you are now looking for a break?]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I'm looking for a break and I want to explain why. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Stop time. That's right. You're looking for a break now?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92167	All right, all right. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92168	So, these tax laws you've given should actually target the largest group of citizens, not extremes, and then that tax alleged reform should benefit. You didn't do it. Why? So you have a very expensive inefficient administration that needs to be paid, which is mostly employed by the principle of membership cards and then unfortunately these laws that should be extremely important for citizens turn into a level of 40 kuna per month, and that is eventually lost. I'm really sorry because as far as I can see, you're mostly engaged in your intraparty wars, your SMS stories, and at the level, here's what I'm going to say, Part of the boy from Musky. Well, here, I really advise the ministers, be a little braver and please get your hands out of the citizens' pockets. I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92169	Of course, I'll approve the apartment. We'll continue at 9.50. And I just want to ask, are you all okay with us working on these groups three, three, three? If that's the case, then we'll continue at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] These are: - Final proposal of the Law on the conduct of student affairs, - Final proposal of the Law on Confirming Amendments and Supplements from 2 to 9. Protocols on the prevention of eutrophication and terrestrial ozone acidification from 1999 with the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Contamination of 1979 and the addition of new annexes 10 and 11. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Production, Repair and Transport of Arms and Military Equipment, - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. The proposal to supplement the agenda was submitted by electronic means. Please engage to check the quorum. I'm determining that we have a quorum and we can make a valid decision. We would like to inform you that it is based on Article 125, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure included the point of the proposal to launch a trust issue to Milan Kujundzic, Minister of Health in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who today submitted 31 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Any of the representatives and representatives have any objections to the inclusion of the proposed 5 and 6 points in the session agenda, respectively? If there are no objections and these points are included in the agenda of the 9th session and the addition of the agenda has been established.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92173	Thank you very much. Dear President Jandrokovic, I am looking for on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP for a 10-minute period to consult on how we will vote on the scandalous proposal for pension reform sent by HDZ in a procedure where unfortunately it goes against Croatian citizens, where retirement is accelerated by 4 years compared to what is now in force and unfortunately in Croatia is living because of a health system which is in the collapse of both Minister Kujundzic and Prime Minister Plenkovic 3mj. It's all going in the wrong direction and you're still pushing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to go to retirement as soon as possible, to have as little quality life as possible, and on the other hand we have to consult on how we're going to vote on it. And once again here we call on all the citizens of the city of Zagreb and those who are nearby to protest tomorrow against pension reform at 12 o'clock in the European market because HDZ and this disastrous pension reform and everything that is going on about it must finally be said enough and things must stop. Citizens must move, not be allowed to watch their hands cut off and not make peace with all the affairs that are happening every day, which are marked by the HDZ government, where the mayor Bandic buys, trades and increases politically, fixates Plenkovic's majority, he ignores and thus rules in the Republic of Croatia. So we must finally say a lot of such management in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92174	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to rest, so we will proceed at 12 o'clock and 21 minutes and 13 seconds. It's 12 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.21 HOURS]] We said we had a quorum. So I would just ask if any of the MPs and MPs have any objections to the inclusion of these points in the 9th session agenda? If no observations are made, these items shall be entered in the agenda of the 9th session and the completion of the daily work shall be established.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92176	I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers, too, and now we will cross on the basis of the article. 249. (a) Rules of Procedure for the presentation of the position of the club. The first will be spoken by an independent representative, the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92177	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92178	Here's a colleague and a colleague, I'm asking you to take a seat who wants to stay here, who wants to leave the hall, and allow his colleague Zekanovic to take a stand. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92179	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, colleagues who have stayed to hear what I have to say. So, this topic has already been discussed today, but I will try a little more detail, and it is about referendums, about referendum initiatives. Today we heard the ministry of Minister Kustević checks absolutely everything So I'll say it again, let's do it one more time. [[Please, colleagues and colleagues, please. Let's let colleague Zekanovic speak, please.]] Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, today I am going to talk about a subject that is very important, very important, and it has already been discussed today, and it is about checking absolutely all signatures by Minister Kustević's ministry. For those who did not know the Agency for Information Systems Support and Information Technologies, so-called APIS received a warrant from the prime minister, or by the government of the Republic of Croatia to check absolutely every signature collected in the 2 referendum initiatives. In the referendum initiative to cancel the Istanbul Convention and the referendum initiative to amend the electoral law. So it's in some cases and over 400,000 signatures, all together it would be maybe a million and 200,000 signatures. And here we have an absurd situation that the ministry has not allowed the initiative's observers to participate in the number of signature checks. On the one hand, we are expected to blindly trust Minister Kuštević and the APIS agency to check the signatures, and on the other hand we have a situation not to trust initiatives to collect signatures in a legal and legitimate way. I have to mention one very important thing here, which is that this APIS agency has been called relatively recently by the HDZ, which is precisely by the president of the HDZ, the last of course, Tomislav Karamark, who has voiced suspicion that the agency has been doing malfeasance in the elections. Why did he think that? Because the agency employs over 100 people who are all closely linked to the social democratic party that is falling apart these days and has voiced doubts about the illegality of counting votes in the elections. Then we now have an absurd situation, which is that again HDZ Prime Minister, HDZ President and his minister Kuscevic are hiring the same agency to check the number of signatures. And we have to trust her. Let's just say that we trust her, the agency, the people at the agency what she's going to do, but I'm curious why she doesn't trust volunteers, thousands of volunteers who've donated their time and collected signatures. I think this is one big problem, and it's only in the coming weeks and months that you'll see what's going on. To be clear, no one is against the signature check, however, we want it to be established that the initiatives have the number of signatures to be. But why is all this happening? Well, the reason is simple. In the event of the deatification of the Istanbul Convention, we have, of course, a change and a prime minister in the event that national minorities do not have the rights in this Croatian Parliament as they have so far, we will change the prime minister again. In other words, with the success of any of these initiatives, Andrej Plenkovic, the RS prime minister is leaving in history. So it's no wonder that he dares in this way to check signatures, stall and try to challenge the will of the citizens. I already said today, and I will repeat, I would like to have a Prime Minister in Croatia who is a little more Croat and a little less European. I would like to have an Orban in Croatia, and in today's replica of Prime Minister Plenkovic when he said that some of them were in the Parliament, I would dare say that he was an accidental prime minister because if HDZ voters knew who they were going to appoint as prime minister, I am sure that many would not trust Andrej Plenkovic. So I'm calling again from this place, and it's time for the election, so let's see who's where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92180	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92181	And we're going to the last debate. As an independent representative of the respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92182	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Today everyone was talking here about various topics, but nobody said a word about the topic that is crucial today, which is in the media today and it is a new affair. Agrokor just started falling into oblivion and here's a new affair, we call it the SMS affair. Here I would ask a key question, how is it possible that the institutions of the state, the secret services give key, confidential information to the media. Today, if we open any portal in Croatia, we can follow step by step everything that is taken by secret services. Is that possible in a normal state? Why are these secret services not dealing with these key issues, national security issues, what is happening in other countries, countries and what kind of water policy in Croatia? My suspicion is that from the top of the state, you know who I mean, there is a warrant to release information or here we now have a simple inter-party calculation, you all know who it is, where secret services are used to solve some inter-party problems within the current largest party in Croatia. The SDP is falling apart and we see that on the other hand in HDZ we also have a similar agenda or we have inter-party accounts although I'm going to say, here things are doing a lot more perfidently, much wiser. So I'll repeat the question. How can information from the security intelligence sector come to the media? How do we even know that someone from some secret number phoned someone and gave key information? Who's running the information? Who's running the information? Minister Bozinović, who lets the media know that we as in soap opera can step by step follow what's going on today in so-called. SMS affairs. On the other hand, I will look back at another event that is current and no one has talked about it with this pay phone here and it is about a protest in Vukovar announced for 13.10, so here in 20 days we will have a chance, whoever wants to hold a protest announced by the mayor of the city of Vukovar, Mr. Penava. So I wonder if there's some agenda behind Mr. Penave's intention to influence the institutions to do their job? There's no agenda. I'm sure Mr. Penava did it from the heart, like a true true true patriot, not thinking much, he urged people to say with their voice in public gathering what they think about the disliking of institutions a long, long time period. With the fact that we have to say here that Mr. Penava has made a mistake in one thing, and this is a grudge to the institutions of their unwork and, on the other hand, is supported by the institutions. Then after talks with Minister Bozinovic, he supports the prime minister. It is the same thing that I also resent and my HDZ colleagues who opposed the Istanbul Convention and continue to support Prime Minister Plenkovic. Mr. Penava, the situation is a little schizophrenic. You cannot criticize institutions and support them at the same time. Make up your mind. Since you've done this out of your best intentions as a true patriot, as a true patriot, I think the choice is extremely easy. And then finally I have to look back on cancelling the games of HVIDRA, my colleague Djakic. I am sorry that our HVIDRA and the Croatian Defence Association are so divided that they are instrumentalised. And you know very well that Mr. Penava did not put this event into that term on purpose but quite accidentally. But I would like to congratulate you on your loyalty to Prime Minister Plenkovic and to a truly pro-mpt reaction between you and Mr Perisha, so here it is, I think Prime Minister Plenkovic will be very pleased with your quick reaction. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92183	And we are going to the final debate as an independent representative, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92184	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. Here I find it very interesting to listen to my colleague Batinić speak about truth and lies, so when he did not speak in this way, when it came to the Istanbul Convention in the debate in this House, when he did not want to admit that there are gender ideologies in it, although in that statement that follows the Istanbul Convention itself, it certainly explicitly states that there are gender ideologies and that it is considered not to apply to Croatian laws. But let me get back to this particular thing that the esteemed colleague just said. That's right, unfortunately I'll say, and at the time of Minister Barisic, the testimony began to be prepared, I agree, is, that's right, that's true. And the truth is, my colleague Schlezak fought at that time, and more so at the time of your Minister Divjak not to go through with it. And you know best, and that's true, that he had no authority, no right in that ministry, no questions asked him about anything, and that was one of the reasons why he was crediblely left the coalition and Minister Divjak. Because he couldn't do the things he believes, spend, or work on them. And that's true. And on the other hand, if the minister is so innocent and all, so if she didn't know about the whole story, why did she release the testimony there? Why did she send tens of thousands of e-mails all over Croatia to upset the school and the principals? Is the minister ultimately talking about a lie and she's telling a notorious lie in her statement? Says Kristina Pavlovic of HRAST, Kristina Pavlovic has never been in the party of HRAST, nor have you, with her being perhaps and you will never be. Not because you wouldn't want to, but because you can't be, become, and then means one notor lie says it would discredit. On the other hand, the minister did not react to the show Open when the editor invited her, 4 guests, one worldview, with one attitude and only one guest, which is Kristina Pavlovic with another attitude. And even the editor himself was on page 4 of the guests and not on Christine Pavlovic's side. He didn't consider it appropriate to say so it would be good to be equal, to be two, three, three, two, no matter how. And she was even disabled in fact when it was suggested that I be the guest of the show, to come on the show, because it would not be appropriate for some to hear the truth. I'll repeat, the minister knew, my colleague Schlezak fought against it and that's why he's no longer in the coalition. And don't undermine yourself. Don't say those things that don't hold water. And yet it's wrong for me, you as some kind of legalist who's always talking about the right and the truth, why you never said, you commented, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia didn't allow observers of these two referendum initiatives, to take a look at how the APIS numbers. What's the problem? It doesn't bother you, it bothers you to make a statement you hold to be false and it's actually true. Why didn't you stand up as a legalist against the terror, Private Obersnell in Rijeka who made it impossible to collect signatures. Because your only interest is your party's success. So you put the ministry as a whole in the service of the party, you do only PR, not what the ministry is tasked with, which is improving education and education and science in the Republic of Croatia. And it's actually terrible that through one ministry, the key ministry is, because our children are exclusively involved in the promotion of one party, and it's government money, and we don't have any K. The pills are gone in the typhoon, there's nothing from IT, there's nothing education, there's no education, the parents are sticking to the head, the teachers are working on the old program, and when we look at these famous outcomes, that is, the reform of the curricula except for the name and title itself, nothing has changed. No doubt you're well-intentioned, but you're misinformed. Have a seat with your minister, and warn her what I said. Ask if it's true that the curricula and the programs just changed the name and that the rest are actually identical and that we're falling into a disaster of education and the minister doesn't care because she's not going to be a minister anymore, and she's not even a member of the HNS, you should care because you and the party are actually going to lose and not get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92186	Thank you very much, colleague Zekanovic. ... My colleague, please, my colleague Zekanovic is now, slowly, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you, here you go, colleague Zekanovic has five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92187	Dear President, dear colleagues. I have to get a little attached to this previous debate when my colleague Jovanovic listed... a colleague from the HDZ or their party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And interestingly, he did not say what he agrees with them, in which he supports them, in which they vote together, he did not mention the Istanbul Convention, where he exemplifies the diameter of Plenkovic in everything he does. He did not mention curricula reform, a disaster for Croatian society, in which he also supports the ruling furniture, I would say it is unworthy. Make up your mind whether you're against HDZ or you're with HDZ. Just be a real opposition, more consistent or stand by the power. So this whole performance is actually funny. I'm going to say something here again about the referendums, because as time goes by, they slowly fall into another plan and can't fall. It's been 10 days, we heard our Kustević at the government say proudly that Croatian citizens could not sign. And as many as 30,000 referendum signatures declared unspeakable. I'll tell the unworthy, because that's the term he used. So 30,000 on the referendum issue of Croatian citizens could not be signed. And I'm curious here now whether any of you are here in the assembly, notices that there was the will of the citizens, to discuss these referendums. That there was the will of the citizens to declare whether all Croatian citizens were to the Istanbul Convention or against it. And what's the problem? I think the result would be very tight, I think that maybe even Prime Minister Plenkovic would liquefy at the end and many others who support him from both the SDP and HDZ, so that maybe even the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to be ratified by the Istanbul Convention. So what do we have now? We actually have cowardice we have fear on the one hand, to hear the will of the citizens. Three days ago, I called, invited actually, the president of the Republic of Croatia to encourage the diameter of Plenkovic to call a referendum. After all, according to Art. 3. The Republic of Croatia has both the right and the possibility to call a referendum. And here it is obvious that there is an interest in these two, respectively, 3 referenda questions that citizens want to manifest themselves in the referendum. And I want to know why our president hasn't made her position out loud and clear after so long. Well, I'm for Istanbul or I'm against the Istanbul Convention. Why didn't she say if there was an obvious will for the citizens to have these referendums discussed. But, yet, here, I'll say that she expressed one doubt about the non-transparentity of checking the number of signatures and how they were collected. If the president has expressed that suspicion, I now see no reason why this might not happen again, why not allow volunteers in the right way to have insight into what was done. And I'm going to repeat that old thesis that is extremely important, which is why volunteers are not allowed to participate in the review of the signatures of these referendum initiatives. Why? What's the problem? And the answer is actually clear, the Istanbul Convention must go further, the Istanbul Convention must not be deratified, because if the Istanbul Convention falls, the government falls, or the government, falls, and the diameter, because the movement towards Europe, which it cares very much, would lose credibility. Those decisions he made, the people destroying, wouldn't actually be a representative of the people anymore. That's why Mr Kuštević received the order of the referendums not to pass. Find a way to tear down those referendums without getting to the Constitutional Court. The simplest thing would be to declare Croatian citizens illiterate, to declare that they cannot be clearly signed, that they do not know how to sign their OIB and the referendums fall. However, this topic will not stop. From this place, I tend to continue to advocate, while in this House I am in this House that the Istanbul deratiation, i.e., the will of the citizens on these three referendum issues is respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92189	Good morning, distinguished parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. We start out as always working week, free debates of representatives clubs and independent representatives. The first reported today's respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92190	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable President of the Parliament. I'm going to talk about a subject that's very current. But we didn't discuss it at HS, but I think it would be necessary. And it's a migrant problem in the Republic of Croatia. For days and days we've been listening to the Maljevac border crossing closed today for the 6th day. We're listening to thousands and thousands of migrants in the Great Claudius. We don't actually know the exact number. Someone's calculating it's there and 10,000 migrants. By the way, official EU data show that around 25,000 migrants have passed through BiH today. We ignore the fact that the Republic of Croatia is not in the Schengen area and that Slovenia and Hungary are. We ignore the fact that Slovenia and Hungary have erected barbed wire or fenced their countries so that migrants do not enter. They didn't just set it up because someone let them. She allowed them the EU, someone winked at them from Brussels to do it. The RH in Schengen is not, but the RH is also the last line of defense this time. The Republic of Croatia is this time a European guard, as it once was... Christendom today also defends the EU, this time from migrants who are illegally trying to enter European space. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say migrate, and I'll say colonize. That's not all. A declaration called the Global Agreement for Safe and Straight and Regular Migration was adopted in July of the UN. It is an agreement or declaration supported by 192 countries of the world, two of which are not, one of our neighbours is Hungary, and one of the most influential countries in the world is the United States. What does he bring us? No one actually knows. I would say it brings us the liberalisation of migrant movements to the EU. The liberalisation of migrant movements around the world. And the Republic of Croatia, as it accepts all that comes from the world and from the West and this accepts. So, on December 10th, in Marrakesh, Morocco, ratification or signing by RS President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, this is what I will say to the disputed document. If you look at what this is about, you'll see that the document is quite general. However, it certainly gives wind in the back of new migrations. Even the authors of this document themselves say that the interest of this document is, above all, in employers, in the Western European industry that is desperate for labour. This document is not to protect these people. This document is not to help them, for them to live better, but this document exclusively serves to ensure that industry, in order for the Western European economy, the EU, to gain such a necessary workforce and I think that this is wrong. The great Kladhua, which is now under the siege of migrants today, and the border crossing of Maljevac is closed, I will repeat it for six days, not in Pakistan, is not in Bangladesh, but Bangladesh and Pakistan is in the Great Claudus. Today, the inhabitants of the Great Claudius are no longer on their streets when night falls. The fourth migrant camp is already being built along the Croatian border. What's waiting for us no one knows. Because the police also admit that the migrant route is active and will be active in the coming years. Simply by math, if we consider that tens, tens of thousands of migrants, come to Europe each year, at one point they will not be able to stay in BiH. It will end up in the Republic of Croatia, and it will not be able to move on because the barbed wire is at the Schengen borders of the EU. We're talking about a key problem that we're just going to face, and unfortunately here and in HS, I don't hear anyone pointing to this extremely big problem. The UN admits that there are 250 million migrants in the world, but also admit that there are about a billion people who will potentially become migrants. A billion people. Where will they end up? I hope that's our president. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic knows. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92191	The next one, on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Representative Club, will be spoken by the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92192	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. These days we have witnessed drama about the survival of Croatian shipbuilding... The living wall as well as the professional public have been warning the Croatian government for years that all 4 Croatian shipyards are in big trouble and threaten to shut them down. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That was said by even the most prominent representatives of the ruling majority, including Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic himself, at this same spot. I would like to remind you that we have been warning this problem all spring, especially in the presence of this Minister of Economy, Darka Horvat. We said that there is no shipyard in Croatia that is restructured, re-organised and re-assembled in such a way that the adopted range from the large shipbuilding sector can be produced without unacceptable losses. We were saying that state money is being drawn into private accounts while workers are being fired while planning to re-schedul land and shipbuilding facilities for their final shut-down. Moreover, for 5 years, the State Audit Office has made it clear that state incentives in shipbuilding are being spent not on purpose and that the privatisation contracts for Brodosplit should be terminated. For years there have also been criminal charges against those responsible for the shipbuilding disaster, and nothing has been done again. It's been known and for years no one's been doing anything, so even when institutions did their job. I've asked and now I'm asking again the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Does Croatia need shipbuilding? If you don't have to, and everyone acts like you shouldn't, then turn it off, but I'm asking the public to answer the next question. How will we maintain the growth of industrial production of exports and GDP in general without shipbuilding? Where are you going with 20,000 workers and their family members from the shipyard as many cooperatives? Why was no one responsible for illegal privatisation restructuring and why did you allow any foreigners of national and local to destroy one to yesterday's successful branch of the economy to settle their own material interests? How is it possible that shipyards became a personal project of a few politicians extremely unprofessional for anything other than mud under the table? How is it possible that the Government has no slight idea what to do with shipyards but to whine in front of the European Commission, at its door where answers do not come except to announce that they will seek back the subsidies they have previously given us? Indeed, Croatian shipbuilding may count its last days literally. There is another chance and it is to form experts at the level of Croatian shipbuilding without political interference, which should be adopted in the shortest lines within 90 days by the restructuring programme. It means to define the production... for certain shipyards and to adopt indicative work plans for the next 5 years and to define measures for the technological reconstruction and rationalisation of the operations of a particular shipyard. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During this period which is not too long, the state would have to ensure a continuation of production in order to make the costs of recovery as low as possible. Croatia as a maritime country needs shipbuilding as one of the main levers of economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92194	Now according to article. 249a. It's time to present the position of the club of representatives. We have one application, which is on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92195	Thank you, Vice President. I would like to ask Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic once more, who are you, Mr Plenkovic, not to give public information? On May 17th of this year, I sent an inquiry to the government about giving us a record of entering the government building in two dates. For then known two meetings of the Borg group in the government building. So, 6.3rd and 23.3rd last year. Since May, so here's the little bit of the 10th month, it's been about 5 months since then, nothing from the government has arrived in spite of the time they had to give it, despite our haste, despite our visits because here, the government building is right across the street. Despite so many and so many phone calls, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, or his services, do not give any insight into public data. I will remind you that, in accordance with the Law on the right to access information from 2013, the 2015 amendments and the Constitutional Court rulings, there was a similar case when the public asked for insight into the government building and the Constitutional Court ruled, then Sanader was still prime minister, if I am not mistaken, that these data must be given to the public. No, Mr. Plenkovic is not interested, he showed a mass of times, no transparency, no public interest, no interest in any of this, and they have refused to give information for 5 months now, and it will be almost 6 months. For what reason is the Constitutional Court ruling, what if a prime minister who should be the first to respect transparency is in his best interest to keep the public well and successfully leading Croatia and everything is pre-arranged and planned. I guess he should be the first one to honor these procedures. I suppose he respects something of the Croatian Parliament. Is respecting the Croatian Parliament, so that it delivers us, when it does not answer so many and so many representative questions, to at least provide us with one basic information. Here, we also have here at the entrance to the Croatian Parliament such records. You can get to her very easily. And why does Prime Minister Plenkovic not want to give it, i.e. He wouldn't put it there at 5 months? So if he had then given, it would have been revealed that not on two meetings, but at least 7 of the Borg Group meetings participated in 23.2., 26.2., 26.2. evening, 28.2., 6.3., 23.3. and 24.3. and was another 29.3 in the government building, but he was not present personally. It's from Martina Dalic's testimony. A careful eye will notice a hole between 6.3 and 23.3 from about 17 days. We know from Martina Dalic's testimony that on 14.3., so within that period when we don't know the exact date was the meeting, there were probably many more, but we can't know who he was or when he was, without getting an insight into the book of entry and exits from the government. Since the 5th month, he wants to cover up how many meetings there have been in the government building and who's been to those meetings. Thanks to our criminal record and Martina Dalic's testimony in the state's attorney's office, we know there were 8 of them on the date and who were the participants. And they come from these testimonies and other meetings of the Borg group, but we don't know exactly when they were or who was on them. That's why we need to get information from that book of entrances and exits. And that's why Mr. Plenkovic is hiding because he doesn't want the Croatian public to know the whole truth about Agrokor, he's already caught in a lie and for Šavoric, and for writing the law, for a year, the Croatian public has been systematically deluded, and then when it was revealed that he had given his friend from his school to such a sensitive job, such an important job, past all the rules, he assured us that we were crazy, that it was all fine, so let them ask themselves in Brussels if it's so normal, is it done in serious countries or that there are leftovers and sanctions and for much, much, much less. So I call from this place once again, we'll go to the end, right now it's on the Commissioner for Information which deadline expires tomorrow, after which is the Administrative Court and then the Constitutional Court and we'll force this story to the end. It is important to know who defiled the government building of the Croatian institution whose members of a group pair, the Borg group who also wrote the law and chose people who would benefit from it, carried it out, and all of it under the watchful eye of the prime minister who sat in meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92196	Thank you, colleague Wilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92197	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Power in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92198	Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. For the last few days, we have witnessed media offensives, pension funds owned by banks managing funds from the second pillar. The well-injected gentlemen finally realized that they would lose a lucrative job that only contributes to them, so through the expensive paid PR, they are doing everything they can to keep their unearned privileges and benefits. The public needs to know the truth, which is that the second pension pillar of the world bank is imposed on former communist countries that have failed nowhere, and everyone has since given up on it, except of course the unprofessional, frightened and corrupt Croatian governments. The government of responsible countries such as Slovenia and the Czech Republic did not even introduce a second pillar because they knew its consequences would be harmful. So far, the state has paid pension funds of around 100 billion kunas of pure money, and these funds have had very little money, often buying shares of failed companies, including Agrokor, Petrochemia, Kredobanka, Bank Centre, Luke Panels and many others. At the same time, by accumulated losses, fund management employees paid themselves huge salaries, not taking the slightest risk of their wrong decisions. The public needs to know that at a time when most Croatian citizens do not have a pension or 2,000 kuna employees have an average salary of more than 17 thousand kuna. They honor our contributions, our pensions, our uncertain future. The worst of all is that pensioners will have pensions below the average of 500 to 1000 kuna according to the new pension payment model from I and II pillars. It is clear and irrefutable proof that the second pillar is a failure and that it should be turned into a voluntary one. The only benefits in the second pillar are people with salaries of more than 20 thousand kuna who again go to the large capital or family of those savings who will eventually die before they experience retirement because in that case the funds can be inherited. Everything else is not only bad but catastrophic. Due to the 2nd pillar, Croatia is in charge of about 90 billion kuna. Public debt has grown to record amounts. Because of the second pillar, more VAT, all taxes and labour prices, our credit rating is in the garbage range, jobs are closed and emigration is encouraged. Now that all the defeat of the introduction of the second pillar has been revealed, the banks are no doubt suggesting that the state give them another 40 billion kuna from the pension equalisation budget from the I and II pillars, and even that state bonds from their portfolio replace the shares of state-owned companies. So, banks imagined that, with 100 billion kunas already received, we still have to hand over HEP, Croatian highways, INA and shares to other public companies. The most tragic story in the whole story is the propaganda that banks are spreading, which is that they protect citizens from the wicked Croatian state. In fact, Croatian citizens are in danger of Croatia, and their well-being is made by foreign-owned banks and their administrations, their employees, who, I repeat once again, are making an average salary of 17 thousand kuna for the workers of future pensioners. The worst part is that one good part of the public even believes it. They believe in icons and effective headlines that appear daily in controlled media, at least according to Minister Dalic's statement in front of USKOK. Therefore, the solution for this situation is to convert the II pillar into a voluntary, provide money to pay off existing pensions, reduce public debt, interest and taxes, open jobs, curb the gray economy and corruption, cheap public administration primarily through territorial reconstruction, and then refuse any additional moves that the government is proposing, which are essentially very bad, such as lengthening employment, pensioning and others. The laws concerning pension reform have already been sent to the procedure, and they have been handed over by the Living Wall. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92200	We're going to a third debate. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, Advocacy Wall and SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92201	Thank you. Honorable colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on 11 July 2018, a final judgment was reached in the case of Franak. The High Court of Commerce established what I was saying here would be found, that 8 banks with debtors negotiated an unfair variable interest rate, which is therefore harmful and that 8 convicted banks agreed an unfair currency clause with the Swiss franc, which is therefore harmful. Based on that verdict, all citizens who have negotiated loans with the Swiss franc currency clause have the right to compensation. All those who paid off the loans before the conversion were sure they'd get a lawsuit for their own benefit. Those who have converted must wait, perhaps, for the Supreme Court's decision, on whether they have the right to compensation after the conversion. But there are angles. 3 fundamental legal issues, which so far have not been resolved. The first legal question is this, which I said whether debtors who have converted their loans are entitled to compensation, the second legal question is, do we have the right to declare such loans to the groundless, or whether the court will declare such contracts to the groundless. And the third legal issue, concerns the euro and kuna loans, where a recently passed rightful verdict, that both the euro and interest are illegal, which is why the bank had to pay the damaged debtor the interest. Thus, the third legal question whether the euro and kuna debtors have the right, on the basis of a collective judgment, on compensation or only on the basis of the Law on Mandatory Relations. These questions, all three questions, will be answered by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, but what is important to say, I recently learned, on Friday, that the outdated claims that are not available, because there was a collective lawsuit and a collective verdict, therefore, there is no statute of limitations for CHF loans, and there is no fixed claims for overpaid interest until 13 June 2019. Therefore, all debtors who file charges before 14 June 2019 have the right to complete overpayment of interest. As far as Sperbank is concerned, it's not until 2023, as far as the CHF currency clause is concerned, the outdated claims for all 8 banks appear in 2023, which means. This means all those who have converted CHF loans, if they want to be sure that they will receive both overpaid interest and exchange rate, would have to sue before 13 June 2019. There is a risk that the Supreme Court may declare its decision on the basis of the audit, that those debtors who had the conversion have no right to compensation. But that risk, in my opinion, must be accepted. It simply has to go to trial, risk must be taken and money must be taken from the banks. The banks are in a real panic, evidence of this is the fact that, on the basis of the peaceful demands of the debtors, that the money that has been paid back to them, therefore, the debtors write to the banks to pay them back the money on the basis of a collective verdict, some banks respond that they do not have the right to do so. They say those rights are the only ones that have agreed on housing loans. That's not true. The ruling in the collective case is related to all types of credit with the CHF currency clause, therefore, residential, auto loans, mortgage loans, cash loans. All of them are subject to a ruling in the case of francs. Whether the issue of outdated claims relates to the euro and to kuna loans will also be decided by the Supreme Court and it is not certain, therefore, to those debtors who have the euro and kuna loans and are going to sue the bank, I recommend that they have safe, that they will certainly receive the last 5 years of overpayment, however, it is not certain that they will receive the full amount of the overpayment. This must be decided by the Supreme Court. There are some announcements that there will be no changes to the limitation of the claims based on worthless contractual provisions, but these changes have not occurred. So far, we have what we have. So, I repeat, outdated, claims for overpaid interest are not available until 13 June 2019 for CHF loans. The outdated claim for the currency clause doesn't exist until 2023 and in the meantime, the Frank Association is preparing a team of lawyers who will be ready for November, and by then, whoever is in a hurry needs to find a lawyer and sue the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92202	The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" representatives' club also signed up for participation in taking a stand, please. Representative Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92203	Thank you, Chairman. I took this break, or what is now called an opinion on behalf of the club, to give an opinion on these latest events about the SMS affair. It's scandalous that someone can abuse institutions in this way, so you can take the phone, call your acquaintance who works with the police, the DORH, in court, who has insight into the files, the records, and then tell him hey, buddy, give me a look where it came from, who's next, how it's going to go, when he comes for him. This is exactly what happened here, Mr. Francis Varga, former M.O.P. employee, as far as we know, an informer, apparently a little bit on the black market, doing some free work, doing a good job with the police or the SOA, we'll remind you, Mr. Brkic was once in the police department, Mr. Karamarko was once in SOA and the minister, we also know that the gentleman who found himself in this affair is therefore well connected to them. I'd say that's where one gray eminence is created. Someone who actually makes decisions, who makes moves, who's behind the shadows, who we don't see and who pushes forward their own, I'd say dolls, exhibits, to confuse us. There has been a leak of information from the investigation, someone reported and now we know who it is, so Mr. Tolusic's driver told Mr. Francis that he will come for him, destroy the hard drives, destroy the USB, the disks, it shouldn't have happened, it shouldn't have happened in a normal country, that someone in this way abuses the institutions, violates the laws, wastes the resources of state institutions, wastes the working time of the institution's employees, and asks the question of how many investigations have failed, how many criminal processes, the proceedings have failed, gone into obsolescence all these years if it's been done so throughout all those years. Let's be a little pessimistic and say that's exactly how it was done. We don't have any more judgments in any big political, business, big fish for anything. We know what was going on with the processes, how old it was, how much non-prosecution of charges, delays one day, these are all stories from our judiciary, and just like this, Mr. Francis are certainly as intermediaries or as a source of information or as operatives involved in sabotage or freeing responsible people. This has to be done more, and it is good that the debate has been launched and that those involved are investigated as well. It is mentioned that Mr. Franjo was still working except for Mamic and Todoric and Karamark, he would not be surprised, he would simply invite the institutions to do the work to the end, not to be afraid of anything, to disintegrate the matter to the end because legal certainty is not available if the girl's information from the investigation and then they call you and those, the Living Wall for Anarchy, and what you've made of the institutions, can really be a shame to you. So that someone over the link can call here, good afternoon, give me information on who will be arrested next or what needs to be done with the evidence, it's really a tragedy. It is clear who introduced anarchy into both criminal proceedings and the police and the DORH and the courts and that practice should be put to rest and I strongly condemn all those involved in this, it is something that should become the past that we finally have a rule of law and not chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92204	The next Club of Representatives is one of the Living Walls in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92205	Dear ladies and gentlemen, each of us in life has made a mistake, I've made one of them, it's actually a lot of them, but this is the one I'd like to highlight. Namely, I falsely accused Damir Jezic of the death of Sisters Filipovic of Rijeka. I did it believing she said she told stories and without any actual clear evidence. For this reason, I would like to read what was agreed upon by the settlement regarding his lawsuit against me for damages. I, Ivan Pernar, hereby apologize to Mr Damir Ježić for publishing an article published on my Facebook page on 15 September 2016. Where I made false claims that he was the same perpetrator of a car accident in which the Filipovic sisters from Rijeka died. I also apologize to him for the incorrect and false claims I made on the show Pressing broadcast on N1 on 5.10.2016, and where I also falsely accused Damir Ježić of being responsible for the death of the Filipovic sisters in a car accident in which they were killed. Here, this is my sincere apology to him and this process that he started against me taught me a great life lesson, which is that no matter how many people told you something, it doesn't mean it's true. Our human thinking is that if people say it should be true, but sometimes it's done. It's often about rumors, rumors that don't have to be true or that can be false. I believe that in this case these rumors, that he was responsible for their deaths, and unfortunately I realized that only after the trial when I realized that there was actually no evidence to incriminate him. What I'm saying is that in my work as a representative, I have to be more thorough and I always have to check what I'm saying and unfortunately I wasn't always like that, and here I believe that this apology, or process that Damir Jezic started against me, will teach me that. The process taught me to be smarter when I'm saying something or to check what I'm saying instead of saying it, I'm saying something based on a statement, a statement. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92206	Thank you very much. With this, we will finish today's work, we will meet again as was said, Wednesday at 9:30, with a point read by the President of the Parliament. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 14.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92207	Thank you. We are now going to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92208	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I took this break to discuss the disastrous management of the Croatian forests. Large parts of Medvednica, Žumberka, Banovina, Gorski Kotar and Like become naked, naked, due to the cut, which legal ones are illegal. Domestic entrepreneurs, domestic craftsmen cry for wood, cry for added value, to preserve t jobs in rural areas that are already empty anyway, but for them there is generally no raw materials, there is no resources but is going to export. Croatian forests work non-transparently, unfairly and illegally to which judicial disputes testify against them for breach of the treaty. Like other public enterprises, when you do business with them, it's important to be like them. If you are alike, you can get more than you have paid for, and if you haven't, and what you have signed, which belongs to you under contract and what belongs to you by decision on the ways and conditions of wooden varieties, you can't get. If you're not alike, and that small amount you need to get to, say, rework the heat, you get a rotten tree instead. In addition to destroying Croatian rural areas, destroying Croatian entrepreneurs, here I will mention the Muhvić sawmill, whether there are many such cases of such days, I will still talk about them, the Muhvić pilana is from Gerov, they employ 20 employees on the construction of wood for heating, they once produced a carpentry, but due to the poor operation of Croatian forests, the production was destroyed because the material was not being delivered. Imagine now for a little Ger's number of 20 employees. Is that half, a third, a fifth, a dozen employees for such a small place. In Muhvić, 90 raw materials for this year are not delivered, and if that doesn't change, they will have to close their sawmill and all these people unfortunately fire. If such a policy continues, what a mountaineer told me two years ago will come true. There won't be anyone else up here in 30 years. Although the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas stipulates that under the same conditions, one who is from the mountainous and mountainous areas has an advantage, in practice this does not happen. In the case of the assignment of wood through an application, it's actually a hoax over a public call. By clicking on the app, you agree to a whole new business conditions, brand-new quantities, types, types, and you can't even participate in the raw materials procurement process for your production without agreeing to these new conditions. So it's about extortion, it's about blackmail. We also have cases of arbitrary alteration of contracts ending in courts, but we know what our courts are like. By the time there's any justice, if it comes, it'll all be ruined alive. From the Croatian forest they lie that there, we do not deliver to Croatian entrepreneurs wood because there is no wood. That's not true, there's wood, but there's wood for the like. It also has wood, but it has to be exported. Large quantities of wood go to foreign countries, to Hungary, to Italy. In Italy, we currently have several companies that import large quantities of wood from Croatia. Croatian forests may say there is no such thing, but the driver's testimony, and at the end of the day every tree has its mark, can be clearly determined who, where and for whom it drives. I announce from this place the reckoning with all those who break the law, who work untransparently, who work unfairly, through the management of Croatian public resources, and the forests certainly are. We will explore this until the end and it is time for Croatian resources to be made available primarily to Croatian citizens, especially those who give additional value to wood. It should also be said after the last icefall, says the waist of some by conservative estimates of 500 thousand metres of cubic wood lying on the ground. This tree is collapsing, and while Slovenians have mostly cleared up and rescheduled as it is prescribed, we are not yet, which pleases the spread of the horseshoes. The profession also says, according to conservative estimates of some 5 million metres of cubic wood cut per year in Croatian forests is sold at a lower price, at about 100 kuna lower price, which would mean that around 500 million kuna is the annual loss of Croatian forests. All of this under the cover here, we give a lower price to benefit saws, but we see from the attached that this is not such a practice or truth. Here, I repeat, we will shed light on this story. Croatian resources must primarily serve Croatian citizens and Croatian... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92210	The next Club of Representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92211	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. These days media are pulling back on the story of the abuse of privileged information, as well as the faked security checks by the vice president of the parliament. There's only one thing we can say about that, if that's what it really is about betraying national interests. We demand that the public be given an insight into the court's case file on the so-called. The elite prostitution to see who their clients and protectors were, or who and why the government protected Miljan Brkić from the very top, because he certainly did not act on his own initiative in this direction. However, the above-mentioned affair has been known since 2011 and it is interesting that at this very moment these data are recycling, and magician Andrej Plenkovic is again misleading the public when he says he doesn't know what he was doing, until yesterday's main secretary of the party, a team long ago because he's long, obsessed with the idea of moving him as his rival for power from politics. The attack on Milan Brkic was obviously planned long ago, and it is necessary to watch Robert Kopol's appointment as prime minister for security on September 10th which is a function that never existed before. Plenkovic does not seem to trust SOA because of some of the potential clans there, Karamarko, Brkic, until the president himself, so he created a parallel intelligence system to take over the entire government in the country that was just beginning to realize that plan. Plenkovic wants to eliminate his party rival under cover of the fight against illegality, which they might believe, if he had not at the same time promoted Bozidar Kalmet against whom a series of trials for serious crimes are being conducted. They would believe Plenkovic condemns the trading of privileged information if there were no group of Borg. So it's not about fighting crime, it's about who Plenkovic is and who isn't. Given the fact that it is the Prime Minister, the measurable damage is far greater because of his role than in the SMS affair and her arms. Just thanks to reports of the Living Wall, last week the Committee of Conflict of Interest launched proceedings against Andrej Plenkovic because it is obvious that the Borg group was formed illegally and paid illegally through the benefits of giving investment positions and seemingly consulting contracts and the prime minister not only knew everything but also personally appointed individual members of the group. HDZ is now trying to cover up Plenkovic's affair in every way possible, so it makes up that lex Agrokor was adopted under extraordinary circumstances even though they never existed. There is absolutely no excuse that everything that was done with Agrokora could not and had to be done transparently and without tails, there was no reason not to report to the public or the government in writing the law itself. The HDZ is under the rule of panic, so they counter the postman on institutions doing their job in every way to obstruct the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. The first was removed by Dalia Oreshkovic for no valid reason. Then Minister Kuščević announces a rule on the work of the commission that de facto takes away all his powers. Not all materials are supplied to the Commission. On May 17th, the Living Wall requested an insight into the book of entry/exit from the government but has not received it until today. County State Attorney Sani Ljubicic has asked to be questioned by Andrej Plenkovic about Agrokor, e, for the case to be taken away and handed over to USKOK, who examined 4 persons subordinated to the prime minister without bringing charges that represent a flagrant example of criminal cover-up and now their testimony does not wish to hand over to the Committee of Conflict of Interests. Regardless of all the pressures, I hope that the Committee for Conflict of Interest will preserve independence and do its job in the right way, unlike USKOK and DORH and send Andrej Plenkovic to the roads of Tomislav Karamark, where the prime minister will have the opportunity to get his hand together with his fellow vice-president, Miljan Brkic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92213	And in the end in front of... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In front of the Living Wall and the power of Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92214	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to expose the hypocrisy of the EU from this pay phone. It is that the EU either accepts or does not accept the results of the referendum. I'll give you a concrete example. In Macedonia, 94% of voters, i.e. voters in the referendum, voted in favour of changing names, but the response was only 36.89%. This is an important figure, which means that around 36% of Macedonians have been for a change in the name of Macedonia and the Western forces that force Macedonia into NATO and the EU, assure us that it is a success and that they are voters for a change of name. But on the other hand in Catalonia when there was a referendum on independence, then 92% of citizens, or Catalans, voted for independence, but what is crucial, the turnout on the referendum itself was much higher, even 43%. So we can freely say that in the percentage and absolute number of more Catalans there were in the referendum than there were Macedonians and that, of course, they supported them more. But one EU referendum answers and she says it's great, and the other says no, no, this one hasn't come out enough. However, I would like to reveal one more key thing in fact, and this is not about the very turnout of the referendum, but about the terms of the referendum itself. When there was a referendum in Macedonia, all politicians and political elites were calling for a ruling exit, coming from the EU, coming I don't know Kurz, Merkel, who isn't everything and there was a strong propaganda campaign where they were crying, the most ground floor passwords as circles, come out etc. At the same time, however, the conditions in this Catalan referendum were significantly difficult, so the police, I watched it on TV, there were online videos, just waiting calmly in line just to get you to vote. The police are coming, beating you, kidnapping the boxes, etc. So we are witnessing that in the EU the attempt of direct democracy is actually doomed to failure. But not because citizens do not want a referendum, not because citizens do not want direct democracy, but because the ruling structures simply do not allow citizens to express their will through referendums and, as you have seen, any attempt at such a referendum punishes by beating, arresting, disbanding legislative bodies and calling for candidates for members, or for politicians who dare to express the will of most citizens. I think it is embarrassing, I believe, that in the EU, or not to think, but it simply is, there is no democracy in the EU, the EU does not recognise any direct democracy, and we had the opportunity to see it in Crimea, when it was on Crimea, it was also the EU, specifically against this referendum, and when people with Crimea even invited European observers, come from the OSCE, oversee this referendum, so that they would not speak later, it was set up or whatever, they simply, like offended frills up their nose and say no. Why? Why ladies and gentlemen? Because they did not respond to the outcome of the referendum, because they were aware of the will of the people. And the same thing is in Catalonia. And what happened in Macedonia again is actually the same thing, it doesn't suit the people's will. It doesn't suit them, which, 64% of citizens have decided a referendum and say no, it's violent and it's unnatural to change the name of Macedonia. Well, that's all I wanted to point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92215	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92216	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work, it's Wednesday, so first we go with the free speech, then the annual report by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which will be presented by the Prime Minister. So far, there's eight clubs here and nine clubs. If there are any more interested, please report immediately, so that we can schedule time for later. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92217	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, in recent days, the best man affair and SMS affair shakes Croatia's state, shakes Croatian society. It has shown that between the judiciary, between institutions, there is one para-intelligence underground, which successfully overrides information. Well, I'd like to ask Mr. Millian Brkic, otherwise the vice president of the Croatian Parliament, to explain a few things to us. Mr. Miljan Brkic, I repeat, is again vice president of the Croatian Parliament and must explain to the citizens how he acquired the property. After all, just because he is a member of the Presidency he represents the Croatian Parliament and we all as representatives, we must insist that the Parliament works transparently or, to be a role model and leader in all segments of society. We know from the public these last days, that Mr. Miljan Brkić, or that at the request of UskoK, 2014 a tax procedure was conducted, in this procedure, which the USKOK requested, among other things, its assets, from the loan of the Karlovak bank, from some other credits of purchase, income analysis, etc., that I do not go, because time does not allow me to look at two things in detail in this whole problem. I'll refer to the 2010 loan agreements. In 2011, the first of the 250,000 kunas, the second of the million kunas, to which the Vice-President of the Assembly of Australia brought a million and 250 thousand kuna. We know, of course, it's not easy to get money into the Republic of Croatia without it being recorded in the system, or that kind of money had to be recorded somewhere in the system. And while the fish shops, the flower shops, are daily under the terror of the IRS, the IRS was enough for Mr. Vice President to say, he gave me a brother and that's it. A million kunas, an explanation my brother gave me, and that's enough, the procedure is closed, everything's fine. If you are looking at other analyses here, you will see that there are views of the contract, that there are records of traffic records per account, reviews of payment orders, of interest orders, therefore, everything else, as far as this property is concerned, detailed and elaborated, but only those 2 loans, nothing other than the loan contract, which, by the way, is not even realised, is standing, the contract was concluded in 2010 at 2 and 2014 the Vice-President of the Parliament said it was not returned. So the contract was broken itself, but the IRS didn't go into that contract in detail, didn't investigate how the money was transferred, if the money came through the bank, there's got to be some kind of bank document. If he put it in all the other stuff, why didn't he put it in here? If it went into cash, you know what the procedure is, you have to report to customs, the form is filled out, personal documents are given, and you get confirmation that you've entered so much and so much money. Of course for more than 10,000 euros. There are no indications here, neither Mr. Brkic nor the IRS initiative, that the administration did any more research or request clarifications. So I'm asking for all of this to be examined. We will today, during the day, send submissions, first customs, due to the introduction of money, second to the Tax Administration, in connection with this procedure, third to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, fourth to the State's Attorney's Office, fifth to the Parliament's presidency. We will ask that Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly himself be made aware of all this and prove in which way he put the money into the Republic of Croatia, if this does not happen, if it does not, the parliamentary investigation committee, which is formed by the opposition, that you can say the ruling majority, investigate the procedure, the court proceedings are conducted, so that this commission cannot act in the case of the Kum, in the case of Blaž or in the case of Francis, even in the case of these loans from the Karlovska Banka, because there is also a trial on its own side. However, in this procedure, you have no way to prevent an examination of the origin of the property, i.e., a specific amount of cash, if it was cash, we ask that the vice-president be shown in the Republic of Croatia. The Croatian Parliament must be transparent, property, i.e. serious violations of the law, if any, if necessary. If a fish farm has to suffer from the tax administration for 10 kn, why was it trusted to the politician on his word, Millian Brkic was believed in his word when he said he had given me a brother. There were no detailed checks. Why? The submissions will go today and the simplest thing would be to Mr. Brkic explain and document how he entered the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92219	Following is the position of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives. This was first requested by the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives and will be spoken on their behalf by representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92220	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I'm going to talk about something that's already been talked about, but there are still public dilemmas, so I have to say what's important to all of you. Today was a meeting of the Justice Committee, which discussed the report by the Supreme Court President, Mr. Sesa answered some important questions, and I personally asked him whether legal issues that have not been resolved and concerning the Franak case would continue to be a priority in the Supreme Court. And I can say that the President of the Supreme Court has undoubtedly said that all cases concerning the Franak case will continue to have priority at the Supreme Court, this is very important because it concerns a large number of citizens, over 100,000, and if we add those who had euro and kuna loans to it, they have some dilemmas and over 200,000 citizens are at stake. So I would like to point out once again what are the legal issues that have not been resolved and which will have to be resolved by the Supreme Court. The first question is whether the debtors who converted CHF loans have the right to compensation. The second question is whether contracts with the CHF currency clause will be null or only contractual provisions will be irreparable because such a question is being asked, debtors want to sue for the integrity of the contract and not for the nullity of the contractual provisions. However, the legal issue has not been resolved, so anyone who goes to court cannot know how it will end if he sues that his contract is worthless. The third very important legal issue is the issue of stalemate claims from the euro and kuna loans in terms of overpaid interest. There are judgments that are such that there are no outdated claims, there are judgments that are such that there are outdated claims. By reading the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, it can be concluded that the issue of overpaid interest relates both to the euro and to kuna loans because, explicitly, the High Court of Commerce said in several parts of its judgment that it was already decided in 2014 that the case does not only apply to CHF loans but also to the euro and kuna loans in respect of the variable interest rate. But because of the various judgments in the courts, the Supreme Court must resolve the issue. The next thing I want to talk about is sensationalism coming from some media where some negative judgments appear to be some sort of divine justice, so I have to say that these judgments are an exception. The first exception is the judgment adopted on 3 July 2018 where, on the basis of the application of the prosecutor, it has been declared not to accept its claim and that the currency clause CHF is not harmful, that judgment was taken before the judgment of the High Court of Commerce, which was published on 11 July 2018, and therefore that judgment which was negative is not valid at all. Therefore, we tell those who have been a little discouraged that they do not have to be afraid, that judgment has no value because it was not adopted after it had been announced before the judgment of the High Court of Commerce was announced. Recently, a scandalous verdict was passed by the County Court in Pula, where the County Court in Pula changed the verdict of the first degree in Sibenik and decided that the prosecutor who was to receive overpaid interest on the basis of a first-degree verdict, and the overpaid interest would not be paid. Why is this verdict scandalous? Because the court claims that this prosecutor is an economist and he knows all about it, so he has no right to overpaid interest. I am telling the judges in Pula who have reached such a verdict that it is regrettable that they have reached another verdict in the rank of a verdict on personal handling because what is at stake is that the prosecutor has agreed with the bank an indeterminate contractual provision. When an indeterminate contractual provision is negotiated, it is not valid even if the prosecutor was the Supreme Court president, a law professor, a doctor of the economy, anything. Therefore, the indeterminate contractual provision under the Mandatory Relations Act does not apply to anyone who has contracted such a contractual provision, so do not be afraid of such judgments, they are the exception and they will fall in the Supreme Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92222	We're going to three debates, a respected colleague Branimir Bunjac, a Live Wall Representatives Club and a SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92223	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. HDZ and Minister Bosnjakovic, according to the 2011 Executive Law, which literally destroyed Croatian society and economy, a law that does not exist in the EU and which represents the biggest criminal parliamentary majority, against its own people over the past decade. The law is so bad, we can suspect it was purposely designed to destroy the Croatian state. The law was written by an interesting joint, color-called executive mafia, headed by Marijan Hanžekovic, who, according to his own recognition, was so zealous that he even sent himself an errand. After six years of hell that hit the most blocked citizens, the Justice Department formed a working group in November last year to build a new executive law. To date, this group has not received any concrete results, except that it is obvious that there will be no significant border law in practice, or that the law will be wrapped in cellophane and the content will remain the same. Namely, those people who do not belong there, such as Marija Strinavic, are reportedly involved in lawmaking, and in the reality of lobbyists, the biggest executives in the Croatian office of Hanžekovic. This confirms the fact that Mario Strinavic, before all the other members of the task force, received the law in his hands and advocated that all changes that would go hand in hand be removed. Not only are they not introduced, but he has asked for the law to be tightened in such a way that no more cash is paid to the executed persons, such as Christmas cards and other receipts that have been excluded so far. From this point on, it is already clear that the making of the Executive Act is hardly contaminated, and that Minister Bosnjakovic, a person who declared the Executive Act as a completely inappropriate person in 2011 to make changes to him because he represents the interests of the executive mafia. The Ministry of Justice and Finance has approached this problem inexplicably and formally acting through the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, as a result of everything else, wants to convince the public that something like it works and that they are solid to the citizens. I have a concrete example this summer, the government reportedly unblocked the citizens on FINA, temporarily halted the commission by bills, but did not write off the debts. This means, in practice, that the superiors will now go to all the assets of the perpetrators. So not just on accounts but on movables, real estate, business shares, motor vehicles. These days, blocked citizens are getting written notifications from the executive that it is the 5.11. deadline for them to pay all the debts they have. If the 5.11. do not pay the debts, the executives will move on to their entire assets. So they'll be taking everything in order. And so now we're going to have a practice that will begin in three weeks that for HRT debts, supplementary health insurance, directorship and I don't know which other people take away the only real estate. So these days tens of thousands of such notifications have been sent to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We see here that, in fact, Minister Maric and Minister Bosnjakovic wanted to create a smoke screen behind which the executives would make forced payments after a short procedure and in a far greater extent than before. For these reasons, the Living Wall feels that the task force has failed and should be disbanded. These days, our party will present its own Executive Law, so we call on the Ministry of Justice to make observations on it so that we can complete it together in parliamentary debates and adopt it as soon as possible. In this way we have the opportunity to turn over a new page in Croatian modern history. Time's gone, we've only got a few weeks left. So let's do something now, or tomorrow will be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92224	The next club is the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92225	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, during Wednesday's debate on the working group of the Ministry of Justice for the Construction of the Executive Law, I wrongly said that the head of the office of Mr. Hanžekovic, Mario Strinovic, is not him, but Damir Metelko, and I apologize to him, Mr. Strinović, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92226	Next on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's colleague Goran Aleksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92227	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I must inform you that, together with my associates from the SNAGA party and those not in the party itself, I participated in a legal seminar that was in Opatija, which is traditional, which is attended by judges of the Supreme Court, judges of the county courts, judges of municipal courts, lawyers and other legal professions on which the topic is currently discussed in the area of legal problems. Well, among other things, there's been a lot of talk about the problems stemming from the Franak case. My colleague and associate of the SNAGA party, but also a member of the Franak Association, lawyer Srdjan Kalebota, had one very noticeable exhibition. In his presentation, he discussed legal issues that have not yet been resolved after the Franak case. And he explained very closely and clearly why these legal issues should ultimately be resolved in favour of consumers. It is the legal question whether consumers have the right to recover after the conversion, whether the CHF contracts will be null or not, the issue of an outdated claim on the euro and kuna loans which have not yet been settled in the Supreme Court. In his professional presentation, Srdjan Kalebota made it very clear and unequivocally clear, which is why after the conversion, debtors still have the right to compensation. In that case, if the contract is to be void, which is also to be resolved by the Supreme Court, the conversion is not actually valid because of the non-performing of contracts. It is very clear by the Law on Mandatory Relations that, in the event that the contract is worthless, it is not possible to make a settlement later, neither by innovation nor by any other means to implement the conqualification of an unfair contract and a worthless contract. Now, I would add one of my observations which is why the conversion did not damage Croatian citizens. I'll put aside the integrity of the contract, talk more about math. For example. If someone was at the moment of conversion, I'd be talking about my loan right now, at the moment of conversion I was in debt 350 thousand kuna, after the conversion I owed 233,000 kuna and it was the result of conversion, other nothing. If I had a verdict in my favour, my new principal would not have been 233,000 kunas as it was after the conversion but would have been 207,000 kunas and in addition would have received more than 170 thousand kunas of overpaid interest, overpaid exchange rates and tight interest rates. So the result of the conversion is mathematically not even close to the result of the court ruling, and those court rulings will be given to all those debtors who are sure that they will receive compensation, those are those who have not converted the loans. So in the Supreme Court, the question now is whether debtors who have converted loans are entitled to compensation. I say they do. And I'm behind it. As for the euro and kuna loans, it is very clear that due to some of the time details in the ruling it is obvious that the part relating to interest is also valid for kuna and euro and CHF loans. So all credit currencies are subject to collective judgment. I have to say another very important detail. The president of the Supreme Court Civil Department, at the beginning of his presentation, was very determined and made it clear if something was unfair, then it is unfair for everyone. He didn't say in the context of what he was saying, but I translated it. It's about the next one. The County Court in Pula did not assign overpaid interest to one man because he is an economist and the County Court in Pula found that he because he is an economist has some knowledge and therefore has no right to overpaid interest. So the President of the Civil Court of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, Damir Kontrec, clearly sent a message to such judges who so judge, if something is unfair, then it is unfair for everyone. There's no questioning whether you're a legal expert, an economic expert or not, I don't know which expert. The Mandatory Relations Act is a fully clear, contractual provision which is indeterminately unfair and harmless, because of such a contractual provision may even be void and the whole contract. So we wait for the Supreme Court to resolve the question of the right to compensation after conversion, the question of the integrity of the CHF contract and the issue of an outdated claim on the euro and kuna loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92229	The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall, in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92230	The lawful verdict against Monsanto, which brought Dwein Johnson from America to 80 million dollars in damages, due to the inhockin lymphoma caused by their total herbicide Round-up, ended a saga, a long story of the godless usefulness of GMO products, i.e. GMO foods, i.e.. GMO seeds. And what exactly is this about? The whole story about GMO seeds comes down to the fact that in plants that are cultured by genetic engineering, some changes are made, in a way that they are resistant to the Herbicides produced by Monsanto. In this case, it's done in a way, sorry, colleague Maras, I really apologize, this, I can't speak until this whole time debate, can you ask a colleague if you don't want to participate in the debate to come out and let him talk, I have nothing against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92231	Yes, please continue, please continue your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92232	I'm asking you to ask them to, yes...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92233	They'll calm down, don't worry, just go ahead. Don't throw your friend Maras away, don't throw away. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92234	Thank you. By a final court ruling against Monsant, where Dwein Johnson of America received 80 million dollars in compensation for the inhockin's lymphoma resulting from the use of their total herbicide Round-up, the time has passed, i.e. the time has come when a great delusion and deception that has been forced but only to Croatia but also to the global public has been revealed. It is that Monsanto produced seeds from which plants would be resistant to their herbicide roundap. And then he said, here's a simple solution. So instead of fighting the weeds, we have a total herbicide that kills all the weeds and in return you buy seeds from us that will create plants that will be resistant to that herbicide. And that's how we make it easier for you farmers to work. All that time, they claimed that their product was not harmful to human health. They went so far as to claim that they could even drink and that nothing would happen to a man. Monsanto is otherwise known for poisoning humans. One of their first attempts at humans was an Orange agent they used in Vietnam where millions of people poisoned, malformed, got cancer as a consequence of using it. Not just Vietnamese, but Americans. After Vietnam, Monanto went with other technology, these were polychlorinated biphenyls, i.e. PSB, which also caused terrible consequences for human health. After that came this scam called GMO food. And notice the only usefulness, under quotes "use" of GMO plants is not that they make a greater contribution, which I don't know their seed is bigger or harder or whatever, better nutrients. No, the only usefulness, i.e. the only meaning of planting GMO seeds, is that it is used parallel to their total herbicide. Now that it is clear to the entire public world and Croatia that these total herbicides kill people, cause cancer, that already a powerful verdict has been passed in America and that there are already many other lawsuits in which people claim the same thing, it is high time that Croatia bans the gliphosphates, or Monsant's herbicide, because today it has not only poisoned farmers who use it but it is also in the urine, or it is already in people, consumers, all of us who buy food. I call on the government to stop the collective poisoning of the Croatian people with this total herbicide of glyphate and ban it because there is no longer any doubt as to whether it is a harmful product or not. It's been proven in court that it's a toxic product that kills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92235	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to a position on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, the first representative, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92237	Thank you President, I will use this statement of opinion to speak about the situation of whistlesman in the Republic of Croatia or I will read specifically the letter of one whistler Rajko Dondur, a whistler from Vindija, chief state attorney to Mr Drazen Jelinić: I address you with this open letter as the person with the most important function in the country right behind the president and prime minister. With this letter, I would like to inform you as well as the entire Croatian public about my experiences with USKOK and state's attorney and with your predecessors Mladen Bajic and Dinko Cvitan. I write this letter to you because I am justifiably afraid that you will continue to repeat the mistakes of former top state lawyers who have resulted in affairs such as the Index, grantovnica, Mamic, Bandic, Sanader, Vidosevic who ended up with a complete failure or indignity in Croatian corrupt courts. I'm also writing this letter to you because I'm trying to get an appointment with you without success. However, not only have I not received an appointment with you but I have not received any reply to my letter and request that I sent you more than a month ago. As far as I'm concerned, that's the case with the other victims of Croatian criminals who want to meet with you. The first contacts with the state's attorney's office as a declareer of corruption I had while the first man of the DORH was Mladen Bajic. I've already had my first step of reluctance. PNUSKOK inspectors told me that it was in vain because while Mr. Bajic is headed by the DORH, it will remain a dead letter on paper. Try it when there's a shift at the head of the DORH. I was patient and I waited and when the shift came, I was announced to Mr. Cwitan and received. I had a meeting with Dinko Cvitan in your office, informing him about the crime in the city of Zagreb as well as tax evasion and economic crime, the biggest secretary in northern Croatia Dragutin Drko, owner of Vindija. It was about tens of millions of euros in embezzlement. In addition to the sentence in the above quotes, Mr Cvitan promised to launch a USKOK action, but there was nothing from that action. It is obvious that repressive measures and tax and judicial sanctions are applied to pickpockets and chickens, petty smugglers, tax evasion in city markets but not to tycoons unless they cease to be political favorites such as. Agrokor and Mr. Todorovic. And Windy and Mr. Drac are exactly that, but in a small proportion. It's true, I can't say that nothing has been done since my application, it's been over three years and I've been invited to a conversation at a PU in Varazdin and a conversation at the County State Attorney's Office in Varazdin. When I came out, I asked myself if I was the defendant or if I was a criminal reporter. I've been told that no documentation has been found, so I wonder if the people who did the performances are therefore not able to read the balances and final accounts that are kept permanently but that requires knowledge and will. And today, after 4 years of questioning journalists, the response of the state's attorney's office in Varazdin is: reconnaissances are ongoing. Is it possible that the reconnaissances last forever or until they are forgotten and the object is placed in a drawer like 1998? A few days ago at Jalkovec Castle, which stands on Vindi and how the IRS was given the information that it was a business-educed centre of Vindija, a wedding of grand-boss grandchildren was held. I'm interested in Mr. Chief Attorney-General, was the IRS, was she in control, how much did Vindy invoice the Drak family to use business subjects for private purposes of the owner? Let's move on. I later learned that the former state attorneys had a special relationship with the subjects or persons who were to be processed, so it is quite logical that such an outcome but then such persons cannot be the main state attorneys. However, when not treated with my criminal charges, it is very effective to initiate proceedings against me, whistles. Because of my criminal charges as a retaliatory act, a number of criminal, criminal and enforcement proceedings involving only the State's Attorney's Office were co-ordinated, so because of the 60,000 kunas on the basis of forged documents on false decisions the witness said at the trial itself that the decisions on which my criminal application was based had not been signed, I was sentenced to 10 months. Prison. For crime in tens of millions of kunas, other criminals with good ties in Croatian courts receive probation without mentioning my application that weighs more than 10 million euros, for which reconnaissances still take place. To me, like other corruption and irregularities, there was a fate that followed all the whistles in Croatia, loss of health, existence, destruction of private life and according to the last court decision and loss of roof over the head and being thrown out into the street. Chief State Attorney Jelinić, please accept this open letter as a well-intentioned warning of the current unhappiness and disorder in your sector. If you have the will and the desire and the courage to change something, I am at your disposal and if you will work as your predecessors, you will only start a revolt of other honest and honest citizens. I will not give up my fight against crime and this state's attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92238	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92239	Next debate, respected colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92240	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, a few weeks ago, I was talking about the situation in the Croatian forests, and now I'm going to relate to this debate. In fact, I was talking first of all about the devastations in Croatian forests, and we know that we have private forests in Croatia, i.e. every 5 square meters of forest is private. As we know, Croatian rural areas are increasingly deserted as the population is evicted, this effect is even more pronounced, it should also be recalled that due to unsettled property-legal relations in the cataster and in the grantovna, this chaos further encourages illegal cutting and illegal export of forests. We can also see if we pass through these parts, and we can also know from the talk with the local population how the large spaces of Medvednica, Banovina, Like and Gorski Kotar or Žumberka are being cut down, which is being cut down in Croatian forests, which is being cut in private forests. What I have on me, an Internal Report sent to the Ministry of Agriculture by the Directorate of Forestry, Hunting and Wood Industry, so there's an internal designation inside, when you read it, there's one scandalous information, so there's twice as much wood cut as was prescribed by the forest-economic plans. I'll read some of the fractions in that report. "The implementation of inspection supervision, starting in October 2013, in the case of the execution of a blade for the execution of a wood-sacrifice of the TATA, established by a forest-economic base in the state forests where the lords of the Croatian forest have established the irregular deviations and regular annual overruns in quantities greater than one million cubic metres per year, a million cubic metres of annual excesses carried out on unplanned forest surfaces greater than 10 000 hectares per year spread to the economic units of central and mountainous Croatia, mainly in the area of forest management, the branch of Zagreb, Bjelovar, Koprivnica, Nova Gradiška, Sisak, Karlovac and Delnice, respectively, in areas where Croatia is the richest in forests and with a number of catastrophic data, in conclusion of the author who, concludes, established irregularities, are not the consequences of higher forces, but the direct results of the non-contrustration of Croatia. At the bottom, he says, the threat, the stability of the Croatian forest eco-systems, in forests owned by the Republic of Croatia, has been threatened, thus becoming a questionable further sustainable management of forests within the forest economic area at the state level, and the damages begin are just the Croatian forests whose sole owner is the Republic of Croatia. So this document testifies to one chaos, chaos not only during the current Minister Tolusic, but also previous ministers. So, we had, as this revision found, multiple excesses of what was allowed. If we take into account this chaos in the state forests, if we consider that private forest is a vast area, we do not know what is, it is enough that it is not from the Croatian forests. This is where it comes and is cut wildly, exports are not known in Italy, Slovenia, Hungary, so it is brought under the questionnaire what? Sustainable management of Croatian forests. We like to grow 10 million cubic meters a year and we cut 6.5, so we grow more than we cut, so we're sustainable. However, with this information from the revisions in the Croatian forest, from the state forest and with the information we have from the private forests, this sustainability is on the questionnaire, i.e., we remember much more than we are sniffing, i.e. what the forest itself manages to restore. When at least he remembers so much, that at least Croatian entrepreneurs have some of it, however, we know that many of them have very little, I talked about it a few weeks ago, on the case of Pilana Muhvich who cannot possibly get the quality and quantity that their contract with Croatian forests is actually guaranteed. One of the biggest trials, it is precisely centralisation in the Croatian forests, because all these contracts are actually generated in Zagreb, where it is central and then sent all over Croatia, where only the same contracts are being conducted. We have the same many testimonies, in illegal exports, in wood, therefore, that nightmare happens, that we are therefore a cheap source and labour force and raw materials for other countries, above all more developed, rich countries, the EU. More and more people, especially small entrepreneurs, appear with their stories, how they were deceived and how their bread was taken from the Croatian forests, about it more at our protest and conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92242	It is now up to Mr. Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92243	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues and all those who follow us. I had to take this break to warn of a terrible event that happened yesterday. In fact, yesterday, the NSB was defiled here in Zagreb, where orcs were held, which is where Orcs were organised. What happened yesterday was indeed scandalous for the entire Croatian society, first of all for the Croatian state and its institutions, instead of people who were found there under investigation, to find themselves on charges, and some of them may have long ago been in some other institution of totalitarian type, they celebrated something that was very harmful to Croatia as a success. As their greatest success, according to this, they represented this book, a little book the size of an ironic title, a cynical title, a title that is mocked by Agrokor's breakdown of Ortacian capitalism. And who are these friends? A lot of them have just been written on the front page. There are maybe one hundred names, many of them are partners who have not only built but also maintained island capitalism. Imagine Martina Dalic representing himself as someone who'd done the trick, who cut down that beast of island capitalism with a sword. Please, Martina Dalic was Minister of Finance in 2011 in the Government of Jadranka Kosor. Then why didn't she deal with her partner capitalism? Why didn't all the governments of the '90s deal with partner capitalism until today? With that crenelism, with that neptivism, with the assignment of business through a relationship. Here we go back to maybe the very definition of what a dude is. The first definition is an associate in joint business or crafts, partner, partner. And the second definition... A participant, a partner in unfair business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this second definition explains a lot more precisely what kind of friends it is. And what's partner capitalism? The literature contains titles of Kumski capitalism or clientelistic capitalism, all from the English source... Capitalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's a form of capitalism in which business success depends on close partner i.e., partner relations between company owners and politicians in power. So it's an incestuous link between economy and politics. And that's exactly what we've got all this time in the Republic, that's exactly what BORG came into being? The Borg group has not just appeared, its roots can be traced since... and then Croatie's insurance and her sales, and then the restructuring or attempted purchase of the INA Mol shares and replacements for HEP shares from December 2016, and while in those jobs and may not have been too successful, the Agrokor was quite successful, there was quite a decline in honey and I'm asking whether Texo Menagment, a small company with 2 employees registered on some small salaries, were Altera, an Intercapital who was the only or only of perhaps all the brokerage houses who in the period in question and had shares of Agroklor had been in plus or recorded profit, were they ever acquired that money and their members, whether they had ever acquired that money and their members, whether they had ever acquired all these salaries that were not of Ortarian capitalism, had there been no ortakluk, them from business and Martine Dalic from politics and their members from politics and had not been in any of the other members of the Governments who had been involved in any of the institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is about setting up jobs by the government, ministers to please their friends from childhood friends, godmothers, I don't know, Šavoric and others, to old friends from certain financial institutions that Martina Dalic had and from the financial sector, all of them found yesterday in the National University Library and made fun of both the rule of law and celebrated those 500 million and today that money flows that they pulled from Agrokor in one way or another. And the main partner is Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, the shavorić liar and the boorgian bagkeeper, and only there was there to make Mr. Jelenic and the DORH crew complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92244	Thank you. All right, we will continue at 3:00 when the draft Decision establishing the Agrokor Research Commission is on the agenda on the basis of a proposal for a list of 16 representatives of the Croatian Parliament. 15 hours, I'll see you later. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92245	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92246	Dear Mr. Vice President, the appreciation of my colleague and colleagues whom I thank you for bringing together, the esteemed colleague and colleagues who you have gathered together in such a large number, I am pleased to see you but regardless, I will say what I think should be said. It's just like usual retirement issues, and a month ago, we had one case that the Resort Minister didn't react to. We had a case on two occasions of breaking up of supplementary health insurance by a private insurance company for the reason that the patient had created a huge cost and that he was invaluable to the insurance company. I'm not going to call private insurance houses now, and I'm not giving them a positive or negative ad, but whoever's in charge can be asked where it was because the cases are highly described on social networks or in the statements of people who have been damaged. It is fortunate that there is a public insurance, voluntary health insurance or additional health insurance of HZMO, which is paid by millions and 600 citizens each month by 70 kuna, so it could accept these people, did not run out of health care. I believe that the minister should have reacted spotlessly to this insurance practice to cancel the supplementary health insurance contracts without such clauses being previously contained in them. I know that HANFA makes them do things like that, that they can't handle risks that are inappropriate but that's their calculation and they need to be able to properly assess the risks. This kind of procedure is inadmissible. So the mistake and the crime minister is that he didn't react to such a phenomenon because this phenomenon can spread tomorrow as an infection, like these mosquitoes from the West Nile we fear today. Secondly, why aren't the ministries negotiating cross-resorial activities? In the indexation of a pension of 2.7%, a large number of pensioners exceeded the price of 1516 kuna and 1936 kuna respectively, thank God that, but instead of getting a higher pension, they got less because they now have to pay additional health insurance monthly than 70 kuna, therefore they did not have so much increase, or have less pension today than they had before the increase. Note, Minister Pavic's promise to agree with Minister Kujundzic. I've been saying for 4-5 years that the census was supposed to be not at 1516 but at 1800 kuna per member of the family and 2200 for a single man who, therefore, had not moved or changed since 2004, and you know that since 2004, the average pension has increased by approximately 800 kuna, and this censor has remained the same. And the last thing, they write to me a little better standing pensioners, those who have a little higher pension, that instead of getting 5950 to get a 150 kuna increase, they got a smaller pension because they flew into the scissors of a special tax or a special health contribution of 3%. So they get less too, they stand a little bit better, but they are the only citizens in the Republic of Croatia pensioners who pay 3% of the additional health care, 3% of the health, additional health contribution. It's only those over 6,000 kunas, they're about 40,000 at this point, and they're making 100 million kunas a year. But all of this would be fine if it weren't for double taxation because they also charged taxes and contributed to their entire working life, no one gave them a 6000 kuna pension, and Minister Milinovic has, in time, freed his defenders with such incomes from paying extra health contributions, which is putting citizens in different positions. Thank you and forgive the overrun. Thank you for letting me say it all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92247	It's all right. Thank you very much. We're going to take a little break by 3:00, and then we're going to continue with the 1st item on our agenda, as scheduled, of the port captain's bill. It's a 14,40 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92248	Let's move on, next up is GLAS and HSU's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92249	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We in GLAS and HSU always think that when moving into some kind of project that this project should be given an opportunity, that this project should be really welcomed in the beginning, positive and that this project should live the same way. But after a year, a project that eventually turned, a project called life for school, we see what happens when it's decided that something after that has to be. So also Minister Blaženka Divjak decided that because the latter must transform full curricula reform, a project called life for school and that it should go. Life and executive hair aren't good PRs, you need to work, you need to make decisions, you need to see what you want. And the result of the afterlife for school was that the publishers had to do books on unfinished curricula, that education, teachers at school were absolutely inadequate, and what did the children welcome, when they went to school, called the project, life for school? Insufficiently prepared teachers, tablets that do not work and equally equipment that will come to school at the end of the year. And then, of course, that whole story continues, if you go wrong or if you give disinformation, then the chest continues, and then 74 schools turns out that only under 10 schools we have pills that work, and then it's announced that by the end of the week, then those who are suppliers say no by the end of the 10th month or by the end of the year. And then the project actually turns life for school into equipment, and we all know the equipment isn't reform. Equally, the project of life for school turns into something, which is that teachers themselves say they're not prepared enough. Today's children function in a way that they really work perfectly, not only with pills, but also with their smart phones and live in real life and in the real world, so they don't use any more classic text messages, but also using vibera and whatsupp in mutual communication, and the Minister Divjak under the project life for school actually destroyed a project called complete curricular reform. Since she wanted to do something, she did a good PR, but there's no content behind the good PR. And where and where does it break? The kids. All of us here will swear from this pay phone and every time we say that our children are important to us, that education is important to us, but we also stare at the fact that it doesn't go the way it should. The same number of times we live on the fact and glare on the fact that we are talking about the development of the economy that we are aware that our children are studying for occupations that will no longer be in Croatia and that we are training children for other countries. You need to stop staring, and you need to open your eyes. The same thing should be said clearly next. The school for life, run by Ms. Minister Blaženka Divjak, has, like a typhoon, ruined the entire curricula reform for which the citizens of this country have been decent, calm, clear, unequivocally out with their views and said and wished for their children. For our children, we want full curricula reform, we also want a school for life, but not a school for life in this way that is currently being run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92250	We are now going to GLAS and HSU's Club of Representatives and esteemed colleague Goran Beus Richemberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92251	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I would like to raise my voice against ignoring the obvious evidence that society is directly threatened by the abuse of the functions of the state. These latest affairs show that in fact no institution in the Republic of Croatia is either safe or stable or independent. They show, these affairs as a mirror of intra-party struggles that in fact all institutions were created, designed to be unstable and dependent on the political will of the ruling party. The latest information suggests that there is almost no institution, especially those whose state is obliged to fight anomalies, to fight crime, which is not contaminated in various affairs. From the police, the DORH, the judiciary, we are told that perjury and lies are allowed, that it is not criminal acts. We're being told that the most serious law enforcement affairs can be covered up. But we are also told to continue with clientelism, to continue with... Capitalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So with one system where only those who are similar and ruling are able to advance. It's a situation where freedom is actually being choked, it's a situation where demographic devastation in Croatia, it's a situation where our country is no longer a country where people want to live. Not just ours who are leaving, but no one wants to come to us. It shows all the misery and misery of our country's profile as the poorest, poorest EU members. 20 and more years have passed since the end of both war and peaceful reintegration. In 20 years, we haven't been able to do anything to reverse negative trends. We are among those Member States that have failed to reverse the negative effects of their socialist past, but we have actually brought them back to life. We've given them new forms and a future to harm the freedom of man, to harm the freedom of the entire community, to harm the idea of the homeland as such. I use this opportunity to invite all citizens who are still at heart and who are still in the head of the hope that they can live in a better, freer, fairer, more prosperous country, I call them to organised political resistance, to political action. Let's all gather around the civil bloc's parties, the civil centre bloc, in a political action that is going to meet new elections. To keep the abstinence as low as possible and to understand that with only a voice on the burns, it is possible to change the situation as it is. Which they say, more than 70% of citizens are unhappy with it and want to change. Only a strictly concentrated political action can come about with these changes, which will then be guaranteed, which will recognise serious changes in the entire architecture of the country, which does not serve the citizen, but serves political interest groups and lobbys. It's awareness-raising time, and there's not much of it, because if we miss this time that's ahead of us, I'm afraid there won't be any more chance and time. That is why I call for political action, I call on all those who want to change, so that they do not put bizarre and less important things first, on which they base the political agendas of their efforts to be visible and heard. Crucial things are at stake, the survival of society as a community that creates its own country to make it and all individuals in the community, to be better, to be safe and to be able to live and create in freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92252	My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to finish your presentation in five minutes. Here is a colleague of Hrelja, giving the position of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92253	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, I will speak again today about installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings. To this I was pulled up by an informal conversation with the minister of European funds and regional development, Mrs. Žalac, while holding a meeting of the government in Pula. She claimed that there is no interest as a separate measure for installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings. This is opposed to our field studies and we claim that today around the city the size of Velika Gorica, therefore, 60,000 people have limitations in their movement and are trapped in multi-story residential buildings, because there are 13000 elevators missing, if we look at all objects larger than P plus 3 in the Republic. So it's something that seemed amazing to me that someone was denying, while at the same time denying interest in installing the elevator, while offering a tied trade. You can get the elevator if you're going to rebuild the façade, I mean such a measure a relatively small number of people can afford, but installing elevators as a separate project with 85% of EU funding and with 15% of the participation checked there is no obstacle except for the obstacle in our ministry and government, so the obstacle is called changing the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and introducing a separate vertical line, i.e. a separate thread to finance the installation of the elevator. So there is a real danger, we have broken through it, the European Commission has shown positively that these funds can be used for this purpose, but I am afraid that we will be lazy, inert, not in time to change the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, and that in the next financial period, the entire Eastern Europe will compete on these funds. So I appeal to the ministry to do so in the next 3.4 months and to change the operational programme to join within those funds they will not, they will certainly not use this financial period until 2020 to realise these funds, to use them to finance the installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings. Let them announce the competition and then they'll see how many people are interested, let them publish the rules of the game, and then they'll see how interested people are. We will not rest there as a Croatian party of pensioners, we have sent on the ground to all cities of polling questionnaires to contact residents, i.e. residents' representatives, residents and cities to establish this interest that he or the authorities in the city to confirm the interest in installing the elevator, to prove to the minister, to prove to the minister the need to install the elevator. If she really doesn't believe there's interest, then I invite her from this place to come to the same building where I was at the beginning of the 6 months this year, it's about a seven-storey in Split and walk with me to the top, see which tenants live there and let her see what kind of problems they have with coming down to the level field, or how unquality and limited their lives are in motion, or not that their apartment is available, their apartment is only available, everything else they should be using, and ultimately our services help those older, sick people with disabilities can't come and climb every day to 5, 6th floor, so they would make it easier for them too, whether it's about helping in the house, about first aid, about firemen don't give God and all the services. So with multiple aspects, this is a useful job, I don't understand how to justify the minister to run and take that money and start installing elevators into multi-story residential buildings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92254	The GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Honored Goran Beus Richembergh, here you are. ... It's a good thing your colleague Richembergh told you, he obviously has a big influence on you, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92255	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, thank you very much. I wish I had a little bit more influence on you, but that's not working. I'm taking this opportunity to protest against the Ministry of Labour's pest policy and pension system. What's this about? So, in the shadow of the story of pension reform, it is forgotten that due to negligence, lewdness, unprofessionalness, the labour ministry and the pension system, no less than a billion kn funds from the European Social Fund have been blocked. The responsibility of Minister Pavić for this situation is for all associations involved in social work, social care, children, youth, victims, persons with disabilities, the responsibility of Minister Pavić is such that he must also know about it, if necessary we will send him information in French. More than a year later, the adoption of a national strategy for replicating civil society following a very demanding, very good, dynamic and inclusive process co-ordinated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You know why he's late? Because for a year, the ministry of Minister Pavic has not delivered its remarks or opinions. Not even the result of this public debate can be published, therefore, a report on public consultation, because there is no, which the Ministers of the Ministry of Labour cannot be entitled to, for a year, make their observations or observations. Do you know what the consequence is? The lack of this national strategy directly affects the inability to activate huge funds from the European Social Fund, and this is where Minister Murganic is holding the stand and the candle, as her ministry is neither better nor more effective in this regard. The two ministries hired several hundred employees, only in the ministry of Ms. Murganic, employ 120 new employees, and no tenders are carried out, which are intended for the activation of funds from the European Social Fund. Do you know that the funds intended for the competition, i.e. users, personal assistants of disabled persons, will not be activated in time because the curient contract is due to expire, it expires somewhere in the 11th month. And the new one's just being called out right now. Do you know that there are contracts, i.e. that there are tenders, which were called at the end of 2017 and in early 2018 which are not even rated today and where they are agreed. What are the hundreds of newly employed people doing? That is, therefore, one practice that leads us to the fact that at the moment when the new European budget and the new budget of the Republic of Croatia are being prepared, Croatia has no idea how these issues will be raised at all. She doesn't know what to do with people who are on the social margin, in a situation where we have 28% of people living below the poverty line, because they're depressed on different grounds. We are so arrogant about the possibility of activation, billions of kunas, going directly with the help of people who need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92256	Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92257	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So when you are there at the bottom of those who have and have decided to speak freely, then that siren call is very convenient for you because something that you have decided that the predecessors will somehow take you to another course, so I would also like to talk about the referendums, and also about the city of Zagreb, but I will not listen to the siren this time, I will return to what I really meant and what I want to say. Often, I feel like I'm actually dreaming of a bad dream and I'm going to wake up and wake up in a decent country where institutions work, where things kind of go their own way, but this ugly dream that I wish it was, is reality. And then, let's say yesterday, the cover of a foreign magazine, Spigla, which says there is a danger in the Balkans, is called HDZ. That article spoke of something else, and I will use this cover for something else. You feel like you live in a parallel world, in which the Prime Minister and the former vice president were absolutely normal and there was no problem bringing Lex Agrokor, who was brought in for a private company to save himself, behind that, of course, as tails go a number of e-mails and everything else that respected high responsibilities from HDZ say are absolutely irrelevant, that this past time and in this parallel world, you have a theme of shipyards. At the shipyard, the state has 25% of its ownership. Where there was a private company and where there was no state property we are all energy, or the prime minister has all his energy, then the vice president of the government invested to save a private company, to save a private company under the auspices that we're actually saving jobs. On the other hand, we have a shipyard where the state has 25% of its ownership and says so let it go its own way so we don't care so something's going to happen, so it doesn't matter so it's 4,000 people, they've already got a job somewhere and they're going to get a job. Explain to me which country in this world when it comes to a private company doing all its energy to save and which is there interest and where it has its own property, there is 25% ownership says I don't care. Today in the paper, or yesterday we see a new ship. Where was it built? Singapore. We have a new ship, the fleet has improved, a ship built in Singapore. And then let's send a clear message, this government takes care of private money, takes care of private investments. There will be maximum energy and effort to save it. Where they're state, I don't care if they go their own way. But then send that message to the end. If we don't get rid of the shipyard and it's supposed to go the way it is, it's going to be, it's going to be a step further. Let's say the kids, and we cancel, don't enroll in that profile's high school anymore. Colleges where the following shipbuilding engineers are educated, let's stop them because on the other hand, we use a conscious budget to train children from the budget for other countries. Which, show me, finger a single country in the EU or in a world that knowingly from its budget schools staff to work in another country. I think the time has come for us to no longer be able to hide what demographics are telling us that young people from Croatia are not leaving because they can't find a job. By the way, there are no more construction engineers and architects in the Dubrovnik area because such building ventures are that you simply have no one left, they have no one to hire anymore because everything is employed. They're leaving because they don't trust this country. And this country doesn't believe, says Spigle, there's a danger to the Balkans, we can paraphrasise it and say something else and it's called HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92259	The next Club of Representatives, the one of the Voice and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92260	Dear Vice President, I am taking the opportunity to say something, but something to ask Minister Pavic if he listens to me here, if he is not going to pass on to him, namely, the censorship of the payment of additional health insurance has not changed since 2004, and he has since since then been a member of the family of 1,639 kuna, and for the single, 1,936 kuna. It's a census. I remind you that in 2004, the average pension was 1 347 kuna, when this censorship was set, then you can imagine how many pensioners were covered by this censorship, and today, that is, in 2017 last year, the average pension was 2 297, or this year 2 700 without international contracts. Therefore, whether it makes any sense that this censorship has not changed, only the state has been saving because the growing and larger number of pensioners, but not only the pensioners, but also those with low incomes, have been dropping out of supplementary health insurance, or in some way endangering their right to health care. It should be said that, in addition to the pension, if someone has received assistance from their town, county or in any way, they are also entering this income censorship, therefore this is indeed the end of the hour to change, and I remind Minister Pavic that he has promised in the last increase, or coordination, to be precise and I will not be caught in the castle of enlargement, therefore, in the last harmonisation of pensions, he said he is aware of the problem and will negotiate an increase of the censorship with Minister Kujundzic. So I'm interested in whether he can tell us now or later when he takes the floor where he came from with those negotiations with Minister Kujundzic, I know that these negotiations usually go hard with health care, but I want to believe he's successful, is he. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92261	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92262	And the last debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92263	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will use today's free speech to bear in mind the fact that it goes to the end of Mr. and that the units of local self-government are preparing their budgets. And there's something, one problem in Croatia, which we, I would say, we're grumbling and we didn't take it seriously enough and the problem is extremely serious, it's about waste. Several times from this pay phone, I warned you of that fact. My mom used to say that sentence I told you, but I'm trying to avoid it in my life, and especially avoid those subsequent brains. The Croatian state has an obligation to resolve its waste problem. It has the obligation to separate 50% of waste from reuse, recycling and what some municipalities and cities do and do well. It's nice to see different buckets, it's nice to see that it's done, but from 556 municipalities and cities, there's little. Other countries that are EU members paid for and paid for their foam. We're not gonna miss that. So local self-government units need to work something out, if it doesn't work out, it's an obligation of the Republic of Croatia. I'm using this pay phone to call once more the Resort Ministry and the Fund to make sure they take the job. However, there is one proverb of free paint. If the City of Zagreb does not solve this, everyone else, therefore, is about a third, up to a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives in the City of Zagreb. If all units of local self-government do so and the City of Zagreb doesn't solve it, we haven't done a job. You don't have to believe what I'm warning you from this pay phone and I'll warn you. When you go to the assembly, a little look at what it looks like in the City of Zagreb, that something that may be in your municipalities and cities is normal, in the City of Zagreb is not. Therefore, the obligation of the ministry, the fund's obligation to sit with its coalition partner, with Mr Bandic, who successfully handles all other elements so that it would be very important to deal with waste problems successfully, but it does not even come to his mind. That there are now local permits that there are local permits, that there are environmental impact assessments, that there is a building permit, that something should be solved for 2-3 years. And what the City of Zagreb did, it signed a contract, that is, through the fund signed a contract for the making of all studies and analysis for the next 3 years is a deadline. So in 3 years Croatia will pay for the penalty. She'll pay for it because she didn't do the job. Given this stable HDZ coalition with Mr Bandic, I do not see a single problem of not sitting down with Mr Bandic and having an impact on him to solve the problem and to start solving the waste problem in the City of Zagreb as well as other units of local self-government. If he doesn't, we'll all pay, like we pay for some of the other things Mr. Bandic does, we'll pay for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92264	Thank you. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92265	Dear President, I have already asked you on several occasions to intervene on parliamentary issues that MPs in the Assembly refer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia are not answering questions and in violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and to intervene that the Government does not treat the Croatian Parliament and representatives of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92266	I would again like to inform you that I have sent a memo asking the Government to answer parliamentary questions for information that I have received they answer a lot of parliamentary questions, but the number is extremely large and cannot simply be answered in that dynamic that needs to be answered all the parliamentary questions. Okay, I'm telling you don't throw me away, I answer you, so I did on my side what you expect me to do, I can't do more than that, but the fact is to say by the numbers that more than ever the questions and obviously that one dynamic is somewhat slower than we would like. Thank you. Madam and gentlemen of the Parliament, we begin by asking the government, or, in particular, just a little bit, well, which then raises the hand, just a little, to a certain member of the government in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 132, 139th of the current morning is held at the beginning of each session, before crossing to the first item of the agenda. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92478	Thank you very much. I demand a break from the President on behalf of the Most Club for 10 minutes, that the club is consulted, following yesterday's statements by Plenkovic, that he will not call a thematic session on... The crimes of the Croatian Parliament which is a direct violation of the Constitution, because the diameter is terrible.../The speaker is not understood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, disdains parliament, and you are also president, as speaker of the parliament, responsible for those words, because the prime minister cannot, nor has the right to call this session because this is not a Pharaoh state, this is a democratic state, this House needs to be restored. [[Incursion president: colleague Bulj]] and do not humiliate him and the Prime Minister.../The speaker turned off./... [[Incursion president: colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92479	Comrade Bull, will you finish now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92480	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92481	I will give you my colleague Bulj immediately at the beginning of the warning because I will not allow the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be violated in this way. First because you have no right to seek a break because it can be requested.../The speaker has been disabled./... Comrade Bulj, Comrade Bulj, I'm just asking for a moment. So you deliberately violate the Rules of Procedure, I gave you a warning, colleague Bulj, I gave you a warning. If you keep going, if you keep going like this, you'll get another one and you'll have to leave then and you won't be able to talk. So please don't do that. .../Speaker disabled./... You have a debate today, you have questions, you have a thousand ways to express your opinion, but now you have violated the Rules of Procedure and please do not do so. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92482	I would like to use this moment before asking questions once again to appeal to you to ask all the ministers who are present here and the Prime Minister to answer us properly, according to the Rules of Procedure, for there are issues which have not been answered for more than 3 months, and written parliamentary questions serve among other things to point to some burning problems that the Government should address. I also ask you since the prime minister replied that all these answers can be received from you to prepare a summary, which ministers respond within the time limit, which do not respond at all, and how much average is it necessary for ministers and prime ministers to answer written parliamentary questions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92483	Comrade Jovanovic, there are other ways to do this, not at this moment right now. You know yourself there's a sequence, there's a agenda, there's a way we worked. I agree, the government has to answer parliamentary questions and I've already sent them a letter, one warning that I ask that it be regularly answered to counseling questions. It's okay that you asked, but I'm asking you to stick to the line and say it at the time of the scheduled time. Thank you very much. Now let's go ask a question. The first is the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic, who asks his question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92485	Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, I am extremely pleased that here I have the opportunity to ask you the first question at the beginning of a new session of the Croatian Parliament. I will stress here that I am not independent of my presentation, but I am a member of the Hrast party and I represent her in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. I defend my party's policy. I believe that everyone knows that our eastern neighbour, and this is about the Republic of Serbia, has started accession negotiations with the EU in 2014. There are 14 chapters open, two chapters closed. There is also chapter 35 of the rest where Serbia's relations with Kosovo are discussed. However, there is no chapter 36 of the Republic of Serbia's relations with Croatia. I ask you to show me what the Croatian government has done and what it means to do about the key things that the Croatian people, which must be resolved, and the issue of the former state's succession, the issue of borders, is the issue of the status of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Croatia, as regards the issues of the missing in the Homeland War. And finally one no less important question, which is the question of recognising aggression on our homeland of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the launch of the issue of war damage. We all know who Aleksandar Vucic is, or whose Serbian Progressive Party has recently joined the European People's Party together with HDZ. I wonder if you will act the same way towards Serbia's entry into the EU as you have acted towards the entry of the Serbian People's Party into the European People's Party?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92486	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92487	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Nice greeting to all MPs and MPs at the beginning of the new session. Thank you, Agent Zekanovic, for these questions. When it comes to Serbia's path to the EU, when it comes to accession negotiations and a series of residual, open issues that Croatia has with Serbia, primarily because of the large-scale Milosevic aggression in Croatia in the early 1990s, and this government has been working on a number of outstanding issues before. You know that at the invitation of the President of the Republic, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic visited Croatia several months ago. On that occasion, all open issues between the two countries, and the process of war crimes and the issue of the protection of minorities and the issue of certain laws that Serbia has where it has extended its jurisdiction by copying the catalogue of acts from the statutes of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, have been put on the agenda, thus allowing its authorities to prosecute crimes which, for example, took place in the territory of Croatia against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia by the citizens of Croatia, which I personally, in the earlier capacity of representatives in the European Parliament, have raised at international level. After this visit, we had a series of ministerial meetings, he went to Serbia and Minister Bosnjakovic, who spoke to the Serbian Justice Minister, tried to find a way to resolve these issues, issues that burden Croatian citizens, who burden many who are not sure whether they cross the state border or not. He went there and Minister Butkovic discussed traffic integration, economic co-operation, everything that should be the topic of the future. When it comes to minority rights, Croatia and Serbia have a 2003 agreement that regulates minority status. We want the rights of Croats in Serbia who unfortunately have only 57,000 today compared to almost 4X more 20 and a few years ago, to be at the level that we protect in Croatia the rights of the Serb minority. And I think we protect them well, quality. For those who do not know and have many in today's political context of Croatia, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of December '91. was one of the key elements for the success of Croatia's international recognition. The gains we have with the status of our minority representatives are positive and good for Croatian society, is good for tolerance, is good for reconciliation, is good for co-existence and is good for the model that we want other countries to have and how to protect the rights of the Croatian minority in those countries where Croatia is a minority. And that's why we are looking at all of this, there are no chapters 36 but there is a responsible position between the Republic of Croatia and its representatives in all formations of the Council from diplomatic to political, where all those issues that matter on the agenda are. And Serbia's path if you want to be open in the EU leads through Zagreb and through solving the cumulative issues we have for years. This is where we represent solid national interests, our views. It is my impression that there is a very broad consensus on the political scene and what is certainly a consensus and the Presidents of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this. And that's the attitude and that's what we're working on, continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92488	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92489	... Is this working? [[Specially enabled.]] Dear Prime Minister, what you say is done doesn't mean it's done. My impression is that nothing is done, it is the impression that the Croatian public is not doing anything because, in 4 years, 2 years of your term, we are neither the issue of principles nor we have begun to solve it, and you know it well. You know very well because you speak many foreign languages, which means Prime Minister, First Minister. So actually the first servant, the first one to serve his people. Unfortunately, you can see that you prefer to rule, rule, rather than serve. That's what we felt at the Istanbul Convention when you didn't listen to any of your people. Unfortunately, and on this point, I'm afraid you have no hearing of what your people want. Croatia must not be held hostage by anyone's Brussels ambitions, none. Croatia needs a government and government to deal with a sovereign policy. Croatia needs Croatia's Orban, and unfortunately I don't see an O here from Orban. Finally, I will say that we have one thing that is very clear to you and most of them are being held by Mr. Pupovac precisely for these reasons, that the key problems of Croats in Serbia, Croatians in Croatia are not being solved. The status of Croats in Serbia is catastrophic, it has never been worse. The issue of the border is unresolved, and you know it, and nothing on that matter is resolved. And Vukic spoke very nicely of our homeland a few days ago in Mitrovica, and you know it. And on the other hand, I will repeat, it would be very interesting and I would be ashamed to sit next to that man in the European Army party and you and your party have not said a single word to prevent that man from entering with a rifle in the siege of Sarajevo, who advocated the occupation of our homeland not so long ago. I'll be from this place whenever I get a chance to talk about this and I won't give you any peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92490	Before we move on to the second question, I have now seen, I am glad to be able to do it again, that our colleague Nada Turina-Đurić and I welcome you from the heart and wish you a great deal of success in the work. I now urge MP Davor Bernardic to ask the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92491	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, Croatia is going from problem to problem, industrial production has fallen, we also record the weaker tourist season, Petrochemia is in trouble, it is announced that the refinery of Sisak has been shut down, the problems in Uljanik have escalated because you have been pushing things under the carpet for 2 years. In Croatia, glare in front of growing fascism, education is conducting reforms without textbooks and without computer equipment. And what I'm particularly concerned about is the state of health. Rows, waiting lists in health care are never longer, people wait for months, even years, health debts are never higher and the conditions of work of doctors and medical staff are never harder, so many of them leave Croatia. During all this time, you are protecting Minister Kujundzic because you are afraid to lose one hand in the Parliament. My question to you, is there anything wrong with you, have you made any kind of reform in the last two years of your prime minister's term? Have you done anything for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for the pensioners, for the workers, for the people who have been waiting for their checks for months and years except for protecting the "group of Borg" that you led, which has been pulling money out of Agrokor under the guise of financial stability? And I'm asking you to answer me because of your unhappiness, does the collapse of the economy, health and pension system expect us next year?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92492	The answer, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92493	... Thank you, Mr Bernardic. I'm looking a little behind you so that some larger capital or import lobby doesn't hurt you, but all I see is a tiny SDP, one grizzly... [[Specially enabled.]] people who leave you every day but well, you have made those few sentences that represent one of your visions of Croatia [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is key, Mr Bernardic is next [[Intruder president: colleagues and colleagues, please...]] For the tourist season, if you do not trust the Government, look at e-Visitor and you will see that this tourist season is better both in terms of nighting and arrival by 5 and 4%, that the investments in tourism were 940m euros, that our tourism revenue will be 12 billion euros, that this is the one you say is bad, the best in the history of the tourist season, that we have broken through everything that was planned by the tourism strategy and that we are now in numbers somewhere in the third or fourth year, according to estimates of the next decade. [[So insult, everyone insults, please come on enough.]] So don't tell the truth. Look at Mr Bernardic's lowest unemployment rate history, look at the growth in the employment rate, look at the indexation of pensions that has already passed over 6% and we promised over the entire term 5%. Look at the raise of the minimum wage, look at the raise of the average salary, see what the average salary is in Zagreb. Look at the rapid decrease in public debt, you've left us a country with a lush debt. Our healthy fiscal consolidation, a policy that has already been shown since the first six months. The budget, you may have followed the cabinet's session, the report by Minister Maric, the surplus on the first six months. It's a billion and 600 million kuna. A surplus last year. So we're running a serious, reliable policy. Credit rating agencies are raising our ratings, not dropping it, we're just on one step of the investment rating. Refinancing of road debt, all that is done in international and domestic markets, financially, says those who closely follow us see where the country is going. What you don't see is, of course, the position of the opposition, your position, the attitude of some policy that should have been an alternative and not that it's not an alternative but you're gone. Therefore, such a kind of cheap, easy commentation can only pass in your circles, cannot pass in public, cannot pass in concrete, measurable data. Tomorrow, there will be a third phase of tax reform, a new discharge for both entrepreneurs and citizens. He'll go to public consultation on pension reform. The health system you're talking about, we want it to be more accessible and more rational and more functional. And this health care tax reform will provide an additional billion and 350 million kuna. That hole that exists in the budget, which has been passed over and accumulated for years, is the problem we're facing, the one we're dealing with. You're saying we haven't faced any problems? What is this problem, the economic transition of Croatia, and we can say freely, the collapse of many companies from the former system, which has not come to order in this government, which we do not deal with? Do you think the people in Uljannik and May 3rd paid for someone's goodwill or perhaps government's decision? Not the last two months, but the last year. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Read and get information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92494	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92495	... fully sided with the same interesting lobbys and large capital that replaced Todorovic and continued as the old one. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] But what is particularly important, as I can tell you and tell you, the SDP may have its own problems, but we will never, ever, ever rob Croatia. The whole story you're telling us about the Christmas pension reform, where citizens will have to work longer to receive smaller pensions and live harder and harder in Croatia is one big fog sale. And we won't let you do that. As we will not allow you to privatize the health system. Your entire prime career here is invested in a résumé to continue our Brussels ambitions instead of taking care of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So if we are a civilized and democratic country, listen to some proposal coming from the opposition. Listen to our plan to raise wages and pensions. If the minimum salary in Croatia were 4000 kuna, we would disburse income tax rates to make Croatia’s salaries grow immediately. To make the plan that the pension in Croatia is 75% of the average salary after full years of internship. It is no shame to take from someone else if it can be done in Croatia for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is a shame to push your head into the sand, to say that there is much to do, to create an impression and in fact Croatia has not moved from the dead stream. I'll remind you of one more thing, and that's the way you work. Instead of working on the well-being of the citizens, you love your people by state enterprises and ministries while everyone else has to leave Croatia. Tell me, how many people left Croatia during your term? I'll answer you, over 100,000.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92496	Thank you. Let's move on, the third parliamentary issue is the issue of counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic, also headed towards the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92497	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Plenkovic, neither is SDP nor is the petty thread of SDP's grizzly. Of course, everyone has their own problems and we'll solve them without your insinuations. Unlike you who have a general impression and some sales of PR fog, the most important thing we've seen in Ulnik, when your impeccable hairstyle was more important to you than breaking the law, so you haven't even put on a protective helmet that speaks a lot about you, I would remind you before asking a question, that it's embarrassing that you haven't been to me for three months. answered the question I asked, 4 questions in June, when I asked you for answers for the fate of the Third May which is before the collapse, before the sinking and you have so far done nothing, neither to repay the 523 million loan nor to replace the irresponsible administration but for this I expect the written answer by the end of the week since you have violated all the rules of the Rules of Procedure. My second question concerns your program that you're talking about. Here, this is a programme by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on page 27-30, states health care in which you say that thanks to you in Croatia citizens will have a solid comprehensive health care, that healthcare will be available to everyone, equally quality, that we will live better and better quality. I'm asking you, do you really think so? Is healthcare available today in Croatia? Are the citizens waiting for the exams less? Are the doctors leaving? Is the M.E.'s medical-laboratory diagnostics problem solved? And let me remind you, I can't list it all because there are so many empty promises, that you wrote this program on page 27 that emergency interventions will not wait at all, and that those who aren't so urgent, waiting lists will be 6 months. Do you, Mr. Prime Minister, know whether the lists in the Republic of Croatia are 6 months, whether they are better, longer and better alive today and whether Croatian health care is more quality thanks to the efforts of you and your esteemed Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92498	Answer, Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92499	... Your question. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So, that one... and telling lies about the Uljanic and the 3rd May that comes from you, not only of you, but also of some other opposition representatives from the two counties is so arrogant, rude, incorrect and incredible to the Croatian public that people here need to hear it again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We went to Pula, went to Pula to hold a cabinet session. We went to the Uljannik Shipyard, talked to both the government and the unions and the workers. We received them here when they came looking for their salaries. And thanks to the government's decision, the guarantee brought by the HDZ government to Rijeka, the Primorje-Gorski County, for Istria, for Pula, for example for the pulse hospital, for the Rijeka hospital. HDZ government. Full of heart and goodwill. In January 716 million kuna guarantees, to give two commercial banks credit to the oil company that both workers and their families and cooperatives lived with and everything they did. This whole financial year is working thanks to this government here, not you. Not management, not boards, not people in charge of the business of the Oilman. And the public needs to know that. Two salaries, July and August, who found them? Who found them, Mr. Jovanovic? Did you find them? Did you find those salaries for the workers or did we find them? Come on, say it. Say it. Therefore, I am tired of listening to both you and other representatives of the opposition from the two counties, these two cities, which speak false in public rather than saying thank you Prime Minister for making us both shipyards work for the last 8 months. They don't work thanks to you. You must understand that. Secondly, Mr. Jovanovic...... Mr Jovanovic [[You can't hear it.]] When we gave the guarantee, then we said very clearly, you will get a guarantee in agreement with the European Commission to create a restructuring plan and find a strategic partner. [[Intruder President: colleague Jovanovic, please.]] The restructuring plan and the strategic partner worked by management, was not done by the government. What the European Commission is telling us today is exactly what the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance have been telling you for several months from the Uljanika administration. That such a plan is not sustainable, that it must be decided locally whether or not we are going to repurpose the maritime good in the middle of the shipyard and build something else here or we are going to do shipbuilding. That's your point. That's your point, Mr. Jovanovic. And secondly, as far as health care is concerned. For Pula, Minister Kujundzic himself told you, moving on with the construction of the hospital. For Rijeka, we've made decisions. To improve the care of mothers and children, for daily hospitals, for surgery throughout Croatia, huge investments, huge projects, raising the quality and availability of the health system. Go to Croatia, look, ask Minister Žalac, ask Minister Kujundzic how many health projects were made during this government. More than your term of office. And that would be good if you emancipated a little, if you heard the same thing, and not if you pulled the data to do what you did? Bringing the public into error? No, you won't. You're telling the truth, that'd be a good start.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92500	Thank you. Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92501	Thank you, Mr. President, for your response. Wait a minute. Thank you for your response. So, you have just misinformed the entire Croatian public because the state is the largest individual owner of the Oilies. You stuck your head in the sand and now you're trying to sell fog here, and when it comes to May 3rd, you're doing nothing. On May 3rd, before the sinking, no work is done on May 3rd because 523 million kunas were sucked into the oil and unfortunately, on May 3rd, it was before the sinking. You don't answer and you don't do anything. As for health care, I really cannot list everything that has not been done, so here we have prepared a little review of the success of your excellent Minister Kujundzic who has done nothing to make the waiting lists shorter in Croatia because here, a colleague sent me, was ordered to review, my dear Prime Minister, on January 28, 2021. The only thing you do, rehabilitate the constitution, rehabilitate war criminals, rehabilitate war criminals who are not waiting for a moment to come to the spa, while other citizens are unfortunately unable to get adequate health care. Are you ashamed, Mr. Plenkovic, of the lies you have spoken here and the minister who spits on his colleagues and thus violates his medical ethics? Why didn't you do anything and let the youngsters stay in the Republic of Croatia? With one move of feathers, you can change the provision in the Law, you could change over the summer and provide the masters with medical-laboratory diagnostics to stay in the Republic of Croatia, not to go to the countries of Europe where they can't wait. Shame on you, all together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92502	Let's go to 4 questions, Honored Representative Branko Hrg, the question is asked by Environment and Energy Minister Tomislav Ćoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92503	Please throw the minister out of the bench, give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92504	Come on, fellow Jovanovic, calm down, calm down. Come on, let's calm down. Here you go, buddy Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92505	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, now we're listening, at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92506	My colleagues and colleagues, please. Let's give our colleagues back two minutes. I beg your silence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92507	Thank you very much. We listened at the beginning, these few questions asked by the Government in a way that nothing was done, so here today I want to ask something quite different to ask Minister Čorić one question, which is related to life in all parts of the Republic of Croatia for which, in the end of the day, this government has been defined. By the very change of the Law on the financing of local self-government, very much has been done for local self-government units, automatically, for all populations throughout the Republic of Croatia, and one of the major projects ahead of us, which needs to be realised, which is long spoken of, are the agglomeration programmes financed from the European funds for the most part. So I'm interested in where we came from with agglomeration projects, how many of them there are, how many parts of Croatia should they be doing, and how much money they're going to be. Why am I setting this up? Because I think that these programmes, which are not only able to improve the life of the Republic of Croatia, but I believe that they can greatly strengthen and assist the construction operation, the one that still lives, which unfortunately has not yet failed, so that I think that this is one of the very important issues and that it is okay, that the public knows the information is real about it and in relation to how much this works in one coordination with local self-governments and distributors at local and Croatian waters, which are in charge, at the national level for the implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92508	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92509	Your Honor, I thank you very much for asking. So, as you know, the municipal sector department in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the water utility sector project, in the envelope of 2014-20120, has about a billion and 50 million European funds. At this point in various stages of realisation of about 35 projects from water utility infrastructure, i.e. related to different agglomerations, the value of works on these projects is around 13.3 billion kuna. In this context, it should be emphasized that out of these 13.3 billion kunas, 7.5 billion kunas from the EU, which is in fact these projects, compete for around 96% of allocation that should go towards water sector projects. It is certainly necessary to highlight the fact that despite the problems facing the civil industry in the Republic of Croatia, these projects, and their realisation mean definitely, huge steps, primarily in terms of enabling disposal in the area of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. increasing the number of kilometres of sewerage network, but also water supply networks. What exactly does it mean in numbers? So these 35 projects involve about 2730 km of construction of a new drain network, as well as reconstruction, over 150 km of existing network. As for the water network, these 35 projects include over 400 km of construction of a new water supply network, with a reconstruction of over 550 km of existing network. This should certainly be highlighted in view of the fact that the loss of water, as you know by the end of 2016 in the Republic of Croatia, was 49% in the total system. Keeping in mind that Croatia is one of the richest countries in the EU, as regards our water supply. It is certainly necessary to highlight the need to keep these supplies in this context and the programme is reconstruction, i.e. the recovery by Croatian Waters, whose help to solve this problem. So a few thousand kilometers of new network on the one hand, on the other hand, 28 wastewater treatment devices within these 35 phase 3 projects, which should be covered somewhere around a million and 50,000 equivalent inhabitants. On the other hand, and 16 water treatment devices, phase 2 which should cover about 550 thousand population equivalents. The final figures speak of the scope of these works, what should certainly be pointed out, is the fact that in the last year, in the water utility sector, there has been much greater, let's say, cooperation between the Croatian Waters Resoring Ministry and the final user. Some processes have been accelerated, we believe, that by the end of 2023 this money will be spent, that is, by the end of the year, by the end of the year. By the end of this year more than 100 and 108 competitions are expected in the context of day-to-day works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92510	Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92511	Thank you very much. I think it was important to hear this data and I am pleased to see these activities run, because these projects were launched there in 2010 and then they entered a phase of stopping and slowing down in the time of 2012-2015 when the cooperation of Croatian waters was missing, except in some parts of the local self-government and when all these projects were on acidification. I am pleased that all this is now being launched, that competitions are being debated, I believe that a large number of our Croatian firms will come forward and will employ their capacities at, of course, the benefit of the population that lives there, but all those who are employed in the construction sector. And in any case, I am also pleased that what you pointed out is that Croatia's waters are working significantly better with local distributors today, with local self-government, and of course it's very important, and that part of what I said at the beginning of asking questions, that today local self-government in the Republic of Croatia can be much easier to satisfy its own component because their income on changes to the law on funding of local self-government has been significantly increased and will be easier to enter these projects. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92512	Let's now ask number 5, MP Boris Milosevic, the question is raised by Justice Minister Drazen Bosnakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92513	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister and Minister. I'm asking the Minister of Justice Mr. Bosnjakovic. Dear Mr. Minister, in recent days, the issue of the processing of war crimes and the relations of the state and society towards the law-abiding war crimes has been quite publicised. There is a lot of talk about insufficient processing, there are various statistics, there are specific cases that have not been processed, where the perpetrators have not been punished, there is dissatisfaction with what has been done so far, or what has not been done. We as a party are also dissatisfied with the processing of numerous crimes committed against Serbs in Croatia, but as a party we are aware of the importance of resolving this issue, we are aware that this issue is important for both society and international relations, that for this reason it is important that this issue be resolved by the institutions that are responsible for it, and that politics must make all assumptions that the work of these institutions that must be independent be as successful as possible. Therefore, at the very beginning of the term of office of the government, the SDSS has requested, as its political requirement and political objective, and the government has accepted and entered into the operational programme for the Serb national minority, so the requirement set out in the operational programme as an activity of 3.4.1. and the holder of the justice ministry who says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will comply with its powers, without prejudice to the independence of the judiciary, to represent the views that any war crimes must be punished, regardless of the nationality of the perpetrators. So I ask you as Minister, does the Justice Department have any data that the judiciary did in '91? to this day at the level of all Croatia for the processing of war crimes committed right in Serbia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92514	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92515	Thank you, well-respected representative Milosevic. Indeed, these days we have talked a lot and answered questions about the topic of war crimes processing since '91. A year to this day. I would like to say that the task of processing and taking action for the processing of war crimes is people who work in 4 specialized county attorneys in the Republic of Croatia, that is Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb and so we have 4 specialized county courts dealing in fact with the conduct of proceedings and decision-making in the segment of therefore war crimes. All that public opinion about the lack of procedures, about the small number of convictions, I'll say the figures here. We have the figures since 1991, so here, perhaps even in the last month, up to the last month, 3587 people have started criminal proceedings at different stages. In relation to the charges brought, 2104 charges were brought against 2104 persons, of which we have 620 convictions where the perpetrators of war crimes were actually found guilty, and in relation to 647, the criminal proceedings are still pending, they are ongoing and we do not know what the final outcome will be. In relation to these remaining 1300s, the proceedings have been suspended and what I want to say are very complex procedures and there are actually difficult items because witnesses are very often not available and the defendants are very often not available, time is running out, and on this side of the time is really not an ally in the whole process. As the prime minister said in response, I was in the Republic of Serbia because cooperation with the authorities of the Republic of Serbia is important, because there are cases that have been processed and sanctioned in the Republic of Serbia, related to Ovcar, there are four judicial rulings, but it is still open and guided by 13 persons. Also compared to the crimes that took place in... An object has been opened compared to 14 people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I deeply believe that we will establish both normative and real frameworks for better cooperation in the future and that we will achieve even better results in the procession. These figures, of course, when we see everything that's happened in our premises, when we see the crimes that have been committed, we can't really talk about satisfaction until every crime gets a court epilogue, until every victim of some crime that we don't know who did it, that it's not being prosecuted and that there's not been any sanctions. They're really the most serious crimes that have ever happened. As we know, a number of cases have also been conducted at the International Criminal Court in the Hague and there have been 160 people convicted and there are also a number of convictions. What we do as the Department of Justice, because we don't process, we don't conduct procedures, but we actually ensure the conditions for these procedures to go as well as possible. We now, a few months ago, have ensured actually the conditions to receive 36 other deputy municipal, state-owned lawyers to give one strong, strong injection of personnel and work to ensure all those other conditions spatial and... So, we expect no matter [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to the hard evidence that we will achieve better results. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92516	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92517	Dear Minister, you said yourself, it is difficult to express your satisfaction, or dissatisfaction with your answer. It is evident from the figures that the state has taken certain steps, that certain procedures have been initiated, that they have led to a judicial epilogue, but we are also aware that a number of crimes have been unprocessed, that the perpetrators have not been found, that the victims have not actually received any satisfaction. In any case, it is important that we in a democratic society, especially we politicians are not calling for revenge, but we are looking for the functioning of institutions, we are looking for the act of law, we are looking for the rule of law. Because right out of the numbers you've spoken, there's a discrepancy between criminal proceedings, between the number of charges brought and the convictions. And it's very important that every criminal procedure is based on facts because it's the only way to get a strong conviction because it can only be based on firm and clear evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92518	Let's now go to Question 6 of Representative Mato Čičak, the question is raised by Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92519	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, members of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I'm going to ask Minister Coric my question, and it's autumn ahead of us, and we can have new record crashes that this government has done to protect tens of thousands of citizens and their property?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92520	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92521	Thank you very much, Mr. Chichak, for your question. So we all know that climate change is, in fact, the effect of climate change on our country as well as on the whole of Europe and the whole world is clearly visible. The floods that we were faced with over the past few years, as well as the other half last and this year, definitely indicate that the system of defence against floods in the Republic of Croatia should be significantly improved. The short-term boxing barriers that we built in the city of Karlovac and, in general, jumped the problem and saved at least part of the households that have been constantly blued over the past decades are a short-term solution from which we simply have to make a step further. How and in what way, I'm sure it's a problem to deal with not only this government but every next government in the Republic of Croatia. It is about building a long-term flood defense system and it in itself assumes a whole series of processes, i.e. the realization of a whole series of projects. One of them is definitely the Rachinovci-Nova Gradiška project. This is a 172km construction of the left oval embankments in the Sava River area. And in this context the work for started already in the 5th month last year 2017 at 16km of this distillery. Contracts were signed in June this year and work is expected to begin at another 30km. These works, i.e. this project with its importance, or financial structure, are 49m euros, of which 42m euros should go from EU funds. However, a significantly larger project with its scope, but also with the number of inhabitants that are thus defended, is a project to defend against flood protection, i.e. a flood protection project in the region of the Kupa River. What is, of course, to point out is the fact that since 4 September of this year, the Law on flood protection against floods has been in public debate in the area of the Kupa River since 4 September. The value of this project is 900 million kuna. And we want to deal with this project permanently with the problem of swimming in the area of three of our counties, in the smaller part of Zagreb County, but much of the part of the Carlovina County, i.e. Sisak-Moslavina County. Before this project, i.e. in the realisation of this project, we are facing about 15,000 particles whose property-legal relations, i.e. where property legal relations should be resolved precisely because of this in the public debate, is this law that will allow for a much faster reaction. I hope that this law will receive the support of the entire public and finally the Croatian Parliament and that we will finally take action in this direction, the population as I have told these three counties, over 23 thousand inhabitants will be permanently protected from floods. So these are some key programmes, or projects that are in the realization phase. We believe that this will cover the most vulnerable areas. However, once again, this is about the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, 2014, 2020 with the realization of works by 2023. With such projects and programmes, we should continue and we believe that that is why everyone in this assembly is hearing and that we will receive the support of the entire Croatian Parliament for this law that I have told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92522	Thank you, Minister. A fellow Chichak? No need to react, thank you. The 7th is Anka MP Mrak-Taritash, asking the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92523	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, about a year ago at a session that started asking you a simple question about whether you were satisfied with the done, whether you were satisfied with the way the government works for you and the way you run this country. I will not ask you such a question today, but I would like, or I would like, as a representative in this House, to get a clear, unequivocal answer from you, and I would finally like to hear your answer and a reaction to a situation that happened in Croatia, which is inconceivable in a decent country. What's this about? The point is, you chose your government, you chose your ministers, and we all witnessed the situation that two of your ministers rehabilitated individuals that the Croatian judiciary, so the Croatian judiciary, has rightly condemned for war crimes. By doing so, the two ministers publicly humiliated the Croatian judiciary, and this certainly could not have happened in a normal and excessive country. In parallel with that, let's trust our eyes and our ears and see what's going on, I'm too old to believe in coincidence. We have a situation in the European Parliament where MPs vote on Mr Orban. About Mr. Orban, there's been a terrible lot said in our space and in Europe, but what's absolutely a fact is that there is an autocratic regime of Mr. Orban. So, dear Prime Minister, the question is clear, where are you taking this country? Do you love this country through your friend Angela Merkel or through the friend of our President, Mr. Orban?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92524	The answer, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92525	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Mrak Taritaš, first of all here and I am personally pleased that your colleague Nada Turina-Đurić has recovered well, that she is with us again, it is nice to see her as our Goran Dodig, I am glad that they are strong and resilient. As for your adjudication to Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Krstic and Minister Medved, I have already answered that publicly, so one and the other ministers welcomed Mirko Norac first and foremost as their comrade. This does not mean that this government neither ministers nor others respect the ruling of Croatian courts. And the County Court of Rivers and the Supreme Court, on the contrary. As for Hungary and the vote in the European Parliament, and there the HDZ very clearly explained why three of our deputies and three of our MPs voted against the report... First, Article 7 of the EU Treaty speaks of suspension of the law of a Member State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we have seen now in the European Parliament is only the incentives of one European institution to open a debate on the other one that decides on this. You currently have an almost plastic, parallel process, similar invitation to Article 7 for two Middle Eastern European countries. One which is our same friendly country, which is Poland, where the European Commission has embarked on this procedure. After a series of discussions in the European Parliament on this and following a series of attempts at dialogue and resolving several issues. Here in the case of Hungary, the same European Commission and those same Commissioners and their services have not estimated that it is time to initiate the procedure by the Commission and against Hungary. It's important to keep in mind. But why didn't they do it? They may also agree with what the report says or at least share concerns, but they did so on their noses because the same European Commission is currently conducting 3 infringements of EU law, a procedure that will result in European Court rulings. The Law on National Higher Education and the Law on NGOs and the Law on Asylum. It's procedure-consuming. .../The speaker speaks Latin./... and this is why the commission before hearing what the court thinks about it, does not launch such an initiative launched by parliament at the moment and after debate in the Committee on Civil Liberties by the representatives of one political group and received the support of others. We have taken the view that Croatia, which is a neighbouring Hungarian country, which with Hungary has a number of open issues, considering our national interest with great understanding, mildly speaking of the imperfections that exist in Hungary, must look at its interest at this moment. I, as Prime Minister and this government, will always look at Croatian interest. How am I supposed to resolve open issues if on an issue like this, which is in the early stages, the pre-processing phase closes the door of dialogue? Well, I... I'm not going to do it with responsibility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92526	Thank you. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92527	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Prime Minister, I'm actually not surprised by your answer here. I'm not surprised by your answer by the fact that you're an educated diplomat, you're trained to be a diplomat and in that sense absolutely is the answer which is, is very twisted, he's very stretchy, he's so very prosalytic. My question was very clear. Where are you taking this country? Are you leading one way or the other? No matter how different we may be in a number of things, I may have naively believed that you cared about a European Croatia, one Croatia respecting the rule of law, which respects the freedom of the media, that you do not intend to lead as prime minister of this country where Mr Orban Hungary leads. However, from your answer, I did not get an answer to my question, unfortunately I did not expect it. To be the prime minister of a country and to bear responsibility, you must be a statesman. The diplomat is something else, and the statesman is absolutely something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92528	Now let's go to Question 8, Agent Allen Prelec. The question is raised by Minister of Health Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92529	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask my question to Minister Kujundzic, and it is related to the functioning of emergency assistance in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Zagreb County. In fact, there was that case in Zapresic, i.e. in Jaska when two people died. I really wouldn't want to accuse you here right now or the system of why people just ended up like that, but the fact that this system doesn't work. The fact is that there is a team in Zagreb County of 7,000 inhabitants. That in some other districts there are 3,000 residents, one emergency team. It's obvious what that difference is. My question is why is the Croatian state and the Ministry and you ministers, why are they a mother and some stepmother? Why in Zagreb County do we have 7,000 people on one team, and in some other districts, 3,000? The fact is, it's not correct. The specific question is, when will that change? When we're going back, maybe we'll go back to the way things used to be, 'cause we know there was an emergency service that used to work differently. They were part of the home of health, and in 2010, you changed it during the HDZ and Mr. Sanader governments. When will he get back to the way things were? Is he coming back? And when will Zagreb County have enough emergency teams to help make sure that something like this never happens again? Because when it happens, then you transfer responsibility from one to the other, and it's not right, and then everyone washes their hands. A specific question and please a concrete answer. When Zagreb County will receive more emergency teams. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92530	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92531	Dear Mr. Prelec, thank you very much for that inquiry and I think the Assembly is a good place to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92532	Please just speak in the microphone. You're getting worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92533	I think this is the right place to talk about it. So we're aware that this system has certain weaknesses and we're starting to change. So we find, this government finds such a system and realizes that there are weaknesses in it, and we start to change. And the changes will take place next to what the Law will now be, you will vote it hopefully within the next month, on health care, predicting the following, which is that we will functionally connect hospitally united emergency receptions, county receptions and health homes or concessionaries. In this way, the system will be more efficient, teams will be better used, and thus better availability will be made, and we will not increase the resources that unfortunately are very difficult to reach. So the point is to rationalize, be effective, or I'll try to paint it a little more vividly. So, to some hospital, we can now go to Zabok or Dubrovnik, it's an emergency 500-700 meters away, county or city emergency. They only intervene on average, process about 3%... The other 97% are being processed in the hospital, which actually creates a major burden on the hospital emergency room, and conditionally, at the moment we need an emergency exit, we have certain deficiencies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the model that we're going to make, which we've prepared in the Law, will be together in the same hospital and emergency county, and when they need to rush three teams or four, they'll be able to rush out. Even if necessary, someone will rush out of an emergency united hospital reception and help when there is a major car accident. That's one thing we're going to introduce and that's going to be the most effective, and the other thing that we're going to introduce is that by introducing an education for nurses, or by going through the media, we're going to release the paramedicus, and we're going to increase the number of teams that can competently go out on the ground like that around the world in developed countries. So at this point, we, by the number of doctors, are in an emergency among the leading countries in the world, and in this regard, we allocate significant resources, and with the new model, we will be able to use them more rationally with, let's also call them working, paramedicines, so additionally educated nurses. We'll have a number of teams that can get in the field. And not to remain in debt for Zagreb County, too. So Zagreb County asked for an increase of 16 and they got this increase of 16 teams more. So, as much as they asked, they got as much because the organization is in the jurisdiction of the county, not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry or the Republic of the Emergency Medicine Office. And on the third hand, perhaps for information, you probably know, and they know here and a number of people coming from working environments, that some local environments are alone, although they have five teams per population, that is, how this is already going, as foreseen by the Law that we have inherited and by the rules that we are going to change, they are sometimes paying certain teams from Dalmatia to Slavonia themselves. So, with the new law to come into force, with the new organisation, functional integration of a united hospital, emergency county and with the system of introducing additional educated nurses and technicians, we will be more effective and we will not increase costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92534	Thank you, too. Here are Representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92535	Thank you, dear Minister Kujundzic for your reply. Yeah, it's true that local self-government units co-finance teams. Which is why this is happening and why they use their resources for something that is the Ministry's jurisdiction, it's really not correct. You know that alone, we have too many obligations. All right. Here, you said one model that would go for an ambulance. I wish you all good luck and all of us together to make it work better. However, I am very skeptical when you talk to me about a new system of health care, public health care. I kind of feel like we're going with public health to meet the privatization, frankly. Public health is being systematically destroyed and is going into the privatisation system. If that happens, then it's clear to all of us that every citizen who can't afford it will have no health care. The question is really literally, how much, how much you're going to go literally to meet privatisation and whether health will be a privilege just to the rich, as you say outside, how it works out there, and we know that it's privatized to a lot of health care out there. Because that's what we want? Because we want only those who have money to be treated in Croatia or who will be treated, as we have so far? It seems to me that we're going to meet the privatisation. And now I would like us to have some new democratic standards in Croatia, each responsible for its actions and I for my word. And I'll say, if we're really going to privatization, the Honorable Minister Kujundzic, then you should, if we're in privatization and if public health isn't available to everyone, it'll take you four and five years if it happens to be tried because then you're a traitor to me, because not all people will have available health care as we do today, and apparently you do, you do. If in 4.5 years here in Croatia health care will not be available to everyone as it is today, forgive me, then you will be a traitor to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92536	Thank you, Comrade Prelec. Let's move on. The 9th question, MP Bruno Esih, raises the question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92537	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister. Dear Minister Kuštević thanked Jesus and Mary and Mr Plenkovic, I give you my question. So, Mr. Plenkovic, it's been two years. So in this coalition and ruling mess where the basic feature was voter fraud. There is, however, something in which you have managed to remain consistent, to say credible, and that is your view of the people's referendums as a product of uninformed citizens and the frightening will of the majority. I remind you of some of your statements about Brexit in Britain or the referendum on the Lisbon Treaty in the Netherlands and France. It is to be assumed that Minister Kuščević is just as concerned as you are with this civil menacing will, which, by the way, has brought him to power and to this place where he is sitting, and unlike many other ministers sitting here in front of us. So, according to your instructions, he is probably just trying to protect your strategic coalition partner, i.e. SDSS, Milorad Pupovac, Vojislav Stanimirović and Djorđa Curcic. However, Mr Plenkovic, the will of the people has been expressed with over 404, or 406,000 signatures, in a legal way and regardless of your inner demons and fears, democracy cannot be eternally played because then she, you will agree, is not. And Mr Plenkovic's specific question, and since you and Minister Kuščević have had several months to advise you to answer the question, how long do you think you're going to keep us hostage to your romance with the SDSS? Tell us a specific time limit when the signatures will be counted and when will you call a referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92538	Please prepare yourself another time better so ask a question within the time. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92539	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. It took two years, two years of the parliamentary term, and we'd like to hear from you the first parliamentary question. Of your three modest, so almost lazy appearances in 2 years since you have the trust of Croatian voters here in this House of Representatives, it is your... And it's good that your voters know that when they give you a voice that you in the body you're elected to actually do nothing, nothing, zero, zero, zero, as your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which I see he likes to speak, it's Mr. Hasanbegovic whether, an assistant or you vice president of the party who ran away, he's gone, here's the Parliament's meeting again, and he's gone. There is time for orchestrated questionnaires and shows in specially staged performances, but for the Council of Time there is no, as you obviously do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By your passivity and activity and by the fact that you were given a mandate on the HDZ list, by my mistake to be quite clear, by my mistake and by the error of the National Council of the HDZ because they praised you, praised you from the president's office, commended you here by some of my colleagues whose recommendation you came here, I did not know you at the time, that I knew you would not be on the list, and that's good for the people to know which you are calling. As far as the referendum initiatives are concerned, I can see you've got some stuff going on here like you're from some other profession, not the one you're dealing with, so you're looking for me with some internal dilemmas and questionnaires. I don't have any. I have a very simple framework called law, a law that is obviously not very good, not done in the time of this government, not designed by my government, the referendum law is full of voids, so even those who collect signatures can interpret it extensively. You can have a deadline, and you can do whatever you want after the deadline. While the signatures were gathering, in accordance with best practice and my internal, not dilemma, but belief, I didn't say a single word, a single word for which you or someone who was willing to collect the signatures did it, not once, not for, not against. That's how responsible statesmen Mrs. Mrak-Taritash do it, not diplomats, no matter what diplomacy brings you the breadth that many here would use very much, including Mrs. Esich. As for Minister Kustevic, the government has reached a conclusion, the ministry is carrying out a job, a seven-man commission exists, will count and check each signature. And it will be worth it from those who may not be alive, and they signed when the signatures are counted, Mr. Sladolev. So what you're showing is one amazing and bad for the country's substituting message of mistrust in institutions. Confidence in institutions. Why are you doing this? Why do you think that commissions, Minister Kuščević of the Government or someone else, would go after it, that something that needs to be counted, checked and verified, would do anything other than what the law tells him. What makes you say that? You think we're waking up with that ambition? No, you might, we don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92540	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Esich.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92541	Thank you very much. So, I'm perfectly pleased with your answer, because Mr. Plenkovic, I'm sorry to say that you were really transparent, I knew exactly what you were going to say. So, I have to tell you, I don't care at all, what do you think, about me personally, about my work, about my party, because if I wanted to hear anything about it, I'd stay at the HDZ Club. So, I think that you will all pray together to God soon, that we are indeed gone, and not only Gordan Jandrokovic to prevent us from coming to the Vinkova autumn, so that you can dance in peace with the jackal wheel. So, while you're asking, my colleague Zlatko is responding to the press right now, to those paranoia of yours, since yesterday, that we're behind some of the difficult national movements directed against you. Col. Glasnović is in Australia where HDZ is losing support, so here we are, not someone from HDZ anymore. If you think this is the direction that will lead you to a new mandate, just roll out, here's the election call, I'm throwing you a glove, be a man and I'll be a woman. So, please, a little humility. And in HDZ, you're not the center of the world, and you're just passing through. ... We know that there were your predecessors who had the same back and later that back was full of knives. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, I'm here personally, knowing you, and I'd say some kind of life habitat, I don't think you're the kind of person who's ready to roll in the mud. So get your parachute ready. And you can prepare that, just in a way, to respect the will of the people, to finally hear them, to call that referendum. Of course, before you count the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92542	My colleague Esich, I wouldn't normally comment, but you mentioned me and some banning coming to Vinkovce, I heard that, it's a ghastly lie, which Mr Hasanbegovic said, and you're repeating it now. So, in your political work, you're using the most common lies and I won't let that happen because it's about me, it's one of the most common lies, shame on you. ... The 10th is next, dear colleague of Bozica Makar, which questions are raised by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92543	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the question I'm referring to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Construction to Predrag Stromar. The Department of Construction is implementing two measures of housing for young people. You recently published an analysis of the real estate market, which we were really well informed about through the media and who followed it well. Given the results of this analysis and the analysis of these measures, I'd like to know what you're planning further, what measures are you planning forward and what steps, and I'd also be interested in whether these measures affect demographics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92544	Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92545	Thank you, well-respected Parliamentarian. Today we are on more than 1200 applications for housing subsidies, for young people. Last year, 2320 young families received a subsidy, built their own house, bought their own apartment, or bought their own house. To these families, more than 250 children have already been born. We're working parallelly... The apartments, here we are preparing for 1,000 apartments this year and so far 8000 young families have settled their housing issues through POS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the end of this subsidy, there will be more than 12,000 families who will settle their living issue through these two models, they will remain in Croatia, because whoever solves his living issue, who starts his family, who has his home in Croatia and stays in Croatia. And this analysis we made, the real estate market from 2012-2017 shows with part and 2018 the real situation and can no longer be guessed at how much the price of POS subsidies affects the prices of real estate. You can see one big correlation, where there are more nights, there are even more prices. And to us both citizens and the market, the real estate will show where in the future. We, along with the mayors, the mayors, will be able to analyze the real information in which municipalities, cities, we need to build POS. Where to give better opportunities for our people, for a subsidy. And most importantly, our goal is to provide young people with safe homes. It is a prerequisite for the establishment of a family, for the personal and professional development of every young man and who has, as I said my home in Croatia, in Croatia and remains. And we want all of our young people to make Croatia a home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92546	There you go, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92547	I'm happy with the answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92548	Thank you. Let's go now to issue number 11. Representative Goran Aleksic, the question asks the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92549	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr Plenkovic, will the Government of the Republic of Croatia prepare a legal solution that will stop the bank from operating illegally in the area of determining interest rates and whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia will prepare a legal solution for the compensation of all citizens damaged on the basis of a collective judgment in the case of francs. On 14 June this year, a new decision by the High Court of Commerce found that 8 convicted banks agreed on an unfair interest rate that is changed by a decision of the bank, a unfair currency clause in CHF and was imposed on banks not to behave in the same way or in the future. HDZ, with the signing of Mr. Jandrokovic's secretary-in-chief last July, pledged to address the problem of illegal interest margins that banks continue to charge voluntarily without contracts with debtors. To this day, I have not found out which lawyer wrote such a document of yours sent to Franak because that lawyer who wrote this document is an extremely good-quality lawyer. However, the HDZ has not solved the problem of illegal margins to this day. Another problem that needs to be solved, the problem of compensation of all debtors on the basis of a collective court ruling, should be resolved not now but after the courts have established a case law since there are two other outstanding legal issues, whether the debtors have the right to convert to compensation and whether these contracts will be injure or only contractual provisions, after the Supreme Court has resolved these two legal issues, will be time for this problem to be dealt with systematically. So please answer my questions and as a question, please answer me who wrote on behalf of the HDZ text to Franak, who was a lawyer because it's someone who's very quality and I don't know who it is until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92550	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92551	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexic, and thank you for congratulating the lawyers within HDZ, so that it may be our discretionary right not to rob us of many good lawyers in future elections. Of course we're following the High Court's verdict, but we also know that there are still processes under way, and we also know what the role of the government is and what the role of the courts is. Yes, yes, the role of the government and the role of courts is not exactly the same in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. However, courts are completely independent, many of our citizens and consumers want to exercise their rights and judicial ways and do so. You guys get a little inside the Franak Association and figure out who and how to do it, how much we read in the paper. When it comes to increasing consumer rights, I will only give you a few legal solutions that we have recently adopted on our proposal and you along with us here in the Croatian Parliament. The Law on Comparability of Refunds, the Law on Housing Consumer Credits, the Law on Credit Institutions, the New Law on Payments and the Capital Market Act. All are legal packages and solutions that protect consumers better and better quality. I suggest that you continue the dialogue that you have with the Minister of Finance and on this and on a number of other topics and that the suggestions that you are talking about, possibly in some future might get their form. At the stage in which we are now, we cannot yet talk about the legal proposals that would come from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92552	Answer, here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92553	Of course I'm not happy with the prime minister's response because he's demagogue, because he's vague and because we're back to square one again, we can talk but we're not going to solve anything. I spoke to Minister Maric several times, but there is no solution. So the margin problem is something that you have to solve and no one else can solve it except the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. Why? Among other things, because at one conference and in court practice, I asked the president of the civil court department of Damir Kontrec, how we will stop the illegal settlement of interest rates in loans in which banks have voluntarily established margins. And he said, the court can't be an arbiter in that case, it can only be the government and the Parliament. That's what he said, so that's exactly what the government and the Parliament do. As for the things we do here in the Croatian Parliament, I said that the currency clause would be harmless, the currency clause CHF was declared worthless. I was saying that there would be no outdated claims based on a collective court dispute and there was no statute of limitations, the Supreme Court decided on that. I was saying that the margins the banks had defined with their notices and did not agree with the debtors of the illegal margin, and this was confirmed by the Supreme Court on 20 March this year in one of their audits. So everything I'm saying here is true. And everything HDZ says under the heading "Reliable" is completely unworthy. You make a promise two, three times and don't execute it. I don't think it serves the honor of either the Prime Minister, who is the president of the HDZ, or the honor of the President of the Parliament who signed the promise, or the complete HDZ sitting here in the parliamentary benches. I'm not gonna say you're lying, but I'll say you're telling lies like your former colleague Mr. Hebrang said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92554	Let's go to question number 12, dear colleague Marco Weldergaj asks the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92555	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government. More than a month ago. You've announced a major tax reform we've heard today that's going to the government soon, or tomorrow. Through that reform, you gave up in a good old HDZ manner that has been growing since the time of Ivo Sanader's guaranteed cards, from reducing the single VAT rate. You've declared this reform very socially sensitive. Your social sensitivity here comes down to 73 kunas per month, which should remain in Croatian citizens' banknotes if there is a price reduction due to a reduction in VAT on some of the products, assuming that your finance minister will say, that the market will do its part and that there will be a price correction. Thanks to that so-called. tax reform, and I will call it more precisely, it is juggling one tax rate, higher wages will have only 2% of Croatian citizens and those Croatian citizens who earn 20 thousand kunas net and more. Now, my question is, Your Honor, why do you insist on going through this so-called "prime minister" thing? Tax reform is ignored by 98% of the population of the Republic of Croatia who are not fortunate enough to earn 20 thousand kuna and more? Especially those who earn less than the average salary, and there are more than 60%. They will have absolutely no use for this reform which will cost 250 million kunas, which by the way will lose local self-government, divided into 2% of the most powerful citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and you still called it social sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92556	The Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92557	Thank you very much, High Representative, for your tax reform issue. First, you obviously either do not follow or do not read the same sources or do not come into contact with the information that would show you that the ex post impact assessment of that first tax reform that we adopted in practice in the first two months of office has also relieved Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. In three waves of tax reform, we have charged our citizens and our businessmen with more than six billion kunas. Six billion kuna. If you remember at the time of the SDP's term, there was a jungle of amendments to tax laws, a word of transparency and simplification as if they did not exist in the pen of those who were authors of tax laws. Things are clearly set up here. Outside the tax shears, how many people is Zdravko? A million and a half people in the Republic of Croatia outside of tax scissors, when it comes to income tax. They don't pay. Those are the rules. Thanks to this government and the measures we've taken so far to make life easier for them. We promised to cut the general VAT rate. There'll be a law in the government tomorrow, so you'll find it. Is article 24? Article 24 amending and supplementing the VAT Act, but with effect not from 1.1.2019 but from 2020. That we counted well in terms of the income and expenditure side tells you this information from the government session in Pula where we are for a billion and 600 million kuna in surplus in the first six months. In the surplus. What does that mean? That we make more than we spend. It was not exactly a common sport in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the work of the SDP government. It's not. Remember that. You are a junior representative, but you can read it. The Internet gives a wide diapazon for information. The aim of this reform, in particular the change in the Value Added Tax Act, is precisely for those of our fellow citizens whose message is support, which is that for those provisions, those most often used, which are mostly bought by reduced VAT rates. And that VAT rate goes to 13% of the esteemed representative of the Children's diapers. It goes for live animals, goes for meat, goes for fish, goes for fruit, goes for vegetables and eggs. What does that mean? So in the choice that we go from 25 to 24, so we depend on the goodwill of a trader or a service provider that you will feel that little difference, we have brought down a rate here precisely on those products that are bought most often, and especially those of our fellow citizens living on the edge of poverty, to keep them in their basket more. And there's no chain, there's no dealer who can ignore the price down from 25 to 13. 25 to 24 unfortunately can. And that was the logic of social sensitivity if you want hands. And that's what you'll see when this law comes into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92558	Time, thank you. Let's move on. Now it is, and I'm sorry. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92559	Dear Prime Minister, my question was therefore focused on wages for 98% of Croatian citizens. The message must be for you to start worrying finally about all the layers of the Croatian population, not just these 2% that will feel and I don't mind, let them feel the growth of wages through these tax changes. Because if it is, and one of your mains is in the program of dots, so resuscitation of rural areas. So there are no people who make more than 20,000 kunas. Unfortunately, there isn't. They're not even in my Krapina-Zagoria County because 2.5 thousand people work in the textile industry. So, I'm, my question was focused on it. As far as VAT is concerned, we'll see. That's what the market's gonna do. You can't say, there's no dealer who won't put it down. So I told the minister that the correction should be done by the market. The VAT below can be poured into subsidies, it may turn out to be a subsidy to producers or producers of these particular goods, right? The differentiated rate also means higher administrative costs. There may be more damage than benefits. I also hope that there will be lower prices for our citizens, but you can't call that a comprehensive tax reform. You can't call because of that Croatian citizens didn't feel it, and we know what we're having trouble moving out. People don't just move out of Slavonia today, they start moving out of the neighborhoods that have the export industry due to low wages. Unfortunately, this is what our entrepreneurs are facing today. That's what industry faces. You could at least through an increase in tax deduction make everyone feel, that everyone has a certain benefit, that they all have a growth in wages. You didn't do it because it represented you, because it was too much cost. Not to mention the discrepancies that occurred in these increases in minimum wage for members, for directors and board members, so in businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92560	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by respected representative Zarko Tušek, Deputy Prime Minister and Agriculture Minister Mr Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92561	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Prime Minister with the ministers. Dear Minister Tolusic, here are all of us who have somehow had a chance to travel a little across the Western European countries and in fact should not go far away, enough to go to neighbouring Slovenia. When we observe the organization of business and life, an economic organization on their family farms on their farms. We see that in some ways they only try to create sustainable economic systems and, in any way, the entry costs of certain segments, reduce to be competitive in their production. One of the biggest costs that all agricultural producers, first of all farmers and cattle farmers, have is the cost of energy. So we see, that almost all farms in close Western Europe and Slovenia today are completely covered with solar panels, looking in some way through this kind of economy to cut their costs and be more competitive on the market with their production. What does your ministry do about this to reduce the operational costs of our agricultural producers? And in extreme terms, since you are the Vice-President of the Government in charge of all economic resources, what I am saying at this point for agricultural producers is also true for craftsmen and entrepreneurs. I think it's one of the good and more concrete visions, so let's say some kind of hidden subsidies under quotes where they can be helped to be more competitive with their production and with their price and then ultimately that with all the other things that we do as Government and in this way more of our agricultural products are on our shelves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92562	Thank you very much. The reply of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92563	... Parliamentarians. [[Specially enabled.]] Thank you, Mr. Tušek, for asking the question. Nice greeting to Mr. Prime Minister and colleagues and colleagues to ministers and ministers. Dear Mr. Tušek, we, through a rural development programme, mean like all other member states, are trying to revitalise and put wind in the back of Croatian agriculture. Of all the money we have at our disposal, we have opened tenders for 87% of the total location at our disposal. And I expect that over the next year we will actually open a competition for 100% of allotments, and in fact end the call for tenders, and that is all we will do to re-establish and invest these money in Croatian agriculture. Of the many things we invest in, the construction of new farms and greenhouses, plastics, municipal and water infrastructures, in local communities, in rural areas, the insurance of crops, the promotion of young people, small farmers, not agricultural activities, are also one of the measures of renewable energy sources. Right now, a tender is under way for our primary producers worth 150 million kuna and for solar plants and for cogenerations and everything else but also for our processors worth 200 million kuna and therefore the total bids worth 350 million kuna are now open, they last until the end of the 11th month. I expect that money will be spent too. And we have another 400 tin million, 350-400 million kuna for that purpose. And I expect that with that money, our farmers like you said will close the cycle on their farms, on their fields or on their... The capacities will be more efficient, more competitive and hopefully even better and more successful in producing what will certainly help them and reducing VAT on fresh fruit and vegetables, meat, fish and all that the prime minister has announced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you again and I hope you're satisfied with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92564	Thank you. Dear Representative Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92565	I thank you for your response to Minister Tolusic. And I think that these are actually topics on which we should spend a lot more of our energy than on this, under allegations of cheap political issues that we kind of draw attention from those things that are in our society and our homeland most important. And a country without serious agricultural production, a country that cannot feed itself certainly in the long run is not a country that has a future. So I congratulate both you and your portfolio and the ministry on the efforts you are working and we must all work together to articulate in any way possible those topics that are truly most important and that are the most concrete seas for our residents and our producers, farmers, farmers, craftsmen and those that are most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92566	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by respected representative Sasa Djujic, Minister of Finance Dr. Cheers to Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected members of the government. Mr Minister, the European Parliament and the European Council have changed the way fuel consumption and CO2 are measured in the exhaust gases of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. Since Croatia has in its tax system a system of excise duties that is calculated except in a large way and in an ecological way, or by a CO2 measurement system in exhaust gases. This new system, a new method of measurement, has led to a significant collection of vehicles in Croatia since 1.9 this year. In their regulation, the European Commission and the European Council have warned Member States that account for their excise duties in the same way as Croatia to take account of this because the intensity of this new measurement method is precisely a response to manufacturers but not to end-users, i.e. citizens, in this case, of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So she warned you in her regulation that you're taking care of it and that it's changing. The same thing was done by the Committee on Transport, Maritime and Infrastructure on 2 May this year at its session where we opened the problem and gave you questions and warnings to take care of it. Since then, however, you have done nothing about this and the result of your inaction has been that since 1.9 this year all new vehicles that enter, which are imported into Croatia have up to 20% higher CO2 consumption by a new measurement system. It means all the vehicles have been picked up. And as of 1.1 next year, this measurement will be even more stringent and an even greater collection of vehicles is expected. I must stress that this is exclusively about new vehicles, which means that we are detimizing the purchase of new vehicles, we are encouraging the purchase of old vehicles. My question is what are you doing on this matter and what are you going to do and within what time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92568	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister of Finance Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92569	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a nice greeting to all MPs and MPs on my part. Thank you very much for asking, Your Honor. So the short answer to the second part of your question will be very simple and that is that we are with this problem I would say not only get to know and should not even be warned by the regulation of the European Council or Parliament, we are aware of that and we have already started and we are working as a ministry but I will now return a little step and on the subject you have opened and this is a matter of taxation with a special car tax. I would point out what we did with the beginning of 1.1 this year. [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Bulj, please.]] You remember that one of the measures in that second round of tax changes in tax reform was to reduce exactly this part of the special purchase tax mainly new cars because you remember that we also recognized this problem which is not only a matter of budgetary policy and fiscal policy in terms of the revenue side of the budget but also has its own repercussion and environmental protection as well as mainly of transport security. The data that the relevant institutions provided from the Association of Dealers of New Cars in the Chamber of Commerce, at HUP, some other sources spoke very clearly about the age of the fleet where the average age of the car in Croatia crossed the 10-year limit, and we reacted very clearly accordingly. You know well that with the changes that came into effect early this year on average is the burden of a special tax not buying new cars but also used, but I especially highlight new cars, reduced by more than 30%, so a 1/3 reduction in the burden of special taxes on cars. That was among other things, and the result of one thing I would say, active approach and industry, we don't have manufacturers but also merchants, so I'll say industry, and the Ministry of Finance, mostly customs services where we've been looking at exactly the aspects that we have. So you recognized well, we have a value component on the one hand, on the other hand we have a CO2 component, so this part about environmental protection, but we also already recognized in those conversations that the direction of movement is going towards the introduction of this new criterion, as I recall, I'm not exactly an expert on cars, but that's what it is. The VLTP way of calculating therefore a new way of budgeting that will take into other forms of exhaust gas, so not only CO2 because many diesel engines are actually a surprise to us many, I would say and we can say in public, actually more energy-efficient than gasoline but based on these nitrogen gases are still more polluting the air or the environment. In accordance with this, we have already agreed that this new regulation will also be accepted, our intention in any case is not to increase the burden, however, but to keep this trend that we have started, so to reduce these excise duties and all of this by the end of the year, and what will, in the context of not only this 9-law package that you will soon see in the parliamentary benches, but what in our part-round in terms of the action on the excise duty regulation or on a special tax, do to neutralize the effect of the new regulation, or, of course, to keep at least the prices that we have reduced at the beginning of this year and, of course, in the context of fiscal possibilities, continue with what we are constantly doing, and that is tax relief. So in this field, I'm going to repeat once again, a very short answer to your question, and I'm going to get to know the problem and we're really looking out for it and we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92570	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92571	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, take such good care of her and follow her that new cars in Croatia have been collected since 1.9. So, you yourself mentioned tax reform, tax reform by this old one, since 1.1 this year, this issue has been resolved by the government regulation. So that's how it is, so you could handle it in one day, bring the regulation and solve it. You don't need months. Six months ago. You knew that in the 1st century, you didn't do anything. You're considering it now, and you're saying we'll take care of it. So you could change the regulation in one day and make it so that today on the market of new cars and light commercial vehicles in Croatia, we have no chaos. And we have chaos. We have chaos just because you change your tax system every year. So people don't buy cars because they don't know they're gonna get cheaper next year, expensive, no one buys anything. Only used cars are purchased or garbage is purchased from Western countries, as a rule from Germany, these diesels you speak of because people don't have money for new cars and we become EU waste for old vehicles, which affects both pollution and road safety. So we have the number of accidents huge, our fleet is old, and I'm glad that you've already told me here that you're going to take care that cars don't collect, that cheap, I'm appealing to you to do this as soon as possible and that you can bring the government's regulation in 5 days and you can stabilize the car market, we don't have to wait for New Year's, and give it with this tax reform that you're now announcing to complete more of these tax changes and let people know that we're going to have a 5-year-old tax system. And the other thing, when you said about the value component, so we're counting the value component on VAT, so the value of the vehicle is calculated by VAT and then you're giving the cost per value component. You have taxes on taxes. Croatia is the only country in Europe that has it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92572	Thank you. The next route will be set up by the esteemed representative, Marko Sladolov, to the Prime Minister Mr. Andre Plenkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92573	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I'm glad you're following me on Facebook, but I'm not glad you don't understand black humor. My status refers to the dynamics of the signature for the referendum, so because I refer to that, the slowness with which you do so, so about 3.4 months. It has already passed since the referendum initiative and it refers to a lot of us dying if there is a referendum at all, so here I am sorry you don't understand that humor. But my question was something else entirely, and that's the teacher's and associate's salary in special institutions, i.e. Rehabilitating educators. It's about the fact that at the beginning of the summer they had reduced their salary from 150 to 700 kuna, that they had written to you, that they had sent a letter to receive them, they were very brief with the minister, which is why I'm asking you a question. So I actually have a question about whether you're going to continue ignoring them, their demands, since they're teachers and associates who work with difficulties, who work with children with difficulties and in very difficult conditions, and in fact, in early July, their salary is reduced from 150 to 700 kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92574	The reply of the respected Prime Minister, Master Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92575	Thank you very much for this question. As for collecting signatures, of course I understood what you're saying in your irony, not on Facebook, but in the media that transmit it. As far as this other issue is concerned, I'm gonna meet with the assistants, the secretary in charge is on the subject, we're gonna solve this problem, personally, I'm gonna deal with it from Monday to Monday to solve it. It's a very clear point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92576	Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92577	Thank you. Well, here, Mr. President, I'm glad that after three months you've said you'll see them in public, they'll have a protest tomorrow, you can do it tomorrow, I just hope that you won't continue ignoring Croatian citizens and about these initiatives and about the referendum initiative and about the initiative of reforming local self-government, here once you're out of Croatian politics, I can freely say that your policy could be called an intolerable ease of ignoring Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92578	The next question will be asked by the esteemed representative Ermina Lekaj Sllaskaj Minister of Finance Dr. Zdravko Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister. My question concerns the work of inspectors, customs and tax administrations because they do not comply with the law, and therefore tax bonds violate the right to apply the legal remedy, and as we know it is a fundamental human right guaranteed by the European Convention and by the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, my question is: has the tax payer been violated by the Constitution guaranteed the right to apply a legal remedy if, during tax control, the taxpayer is suspected of having committed a breach in accordance with Article 62(2) of the General Tax Code, if the taxpayer is not allowed to submit a complaint to the tax control record and all in accordance with Article 126(3) of the General Tax Code? The second question is whether a tax authority or a customs official may adopt a decision referred to in Article 124(1) of the general tax law acting contrary to the provisions of Article 123 of the General Tax Code? This is constantly happening in practice by expressing my dissatisfaction with small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. I expect your question and solving this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92580	The reply of the respected Finance Minister Zdravko Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92581	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have communicated on this subject, among other things and before, as part of your parliamentary issues. So a brief answer to the first part of the question, so the Constitution very clearly says the guaranteed right to a legal remedy, so any denial of such right is in collapsing with the Constitution and there is very simple and very clear to distinguish. In the following questions, however, you refer to certain articles of the general tax law. Therefore, in the course of tax supervision, in the course of a tax procedure pursuant to Article 123, it is possible to suspect that an offence has been committed or some possible offence which, in that case, actually means that the duty, of course, of that body, of the tax authority, is to inform and inform and transfer, of course, to the competent services for further action. But the procedure does not endanger the existing tax procedure and they can be conducted in parallel. And with this, in fact, it is very clear that once again, because there is an article in the general tax law that makes it very clear that every taxpayer has the right to a legal remedy, i.e. an objection in the sense that it cannot be less than 5 days, i.e. for more than 20 days. As regards this issue concerning the customs service, the customs office is in the general tax law, as well as the tax service as well as others recognised as the tax authority and in accordance with all the powers actually given in the general tax law, there is, among other things, the possibility and the right of course to make solutions which again, I repeat, are on the trail and the law, but of course, the Constitution itself. Given the times I have yet to answer, I can tell you, therefore, that the intention and general tax law and all the changes that we have introduced into the tax system are, in fact, the tax administration and all bodies have one partner relationship and a partner approach to taxpayers. And we have said countless times that we want to place more emphasis on the prevention and education of taxpayers, simplifying tax regulations and facilitating both taxpayers and tax administrations, or customs services, but there are also, of course, very clearly defined provisions of the laws that all must adhere to and respect. This year some 12,000 oversights were carried out, either by the tax administration, or by the customs service. I must say that on average about 50% of the measures implemented have identified irregularities. But I also need to apostrophe that this ultimate measure, which is printing, is a ban on labor, was carried out on average on average by some 3-4% of the irregularities identified. Indeed, as a final measure, what we are constantly calling for, from the very beginning, from the first round of tax reform, that we want, of course, this partnership relationship and that we certainly don't want, that we have currently, one in the media space and in the public, one case that I believe will also be a question of the media and the public and customs service will make a statement on this subject, so, among other things, we will see, in fact, that the tax authorities are trying to act exactly in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92582	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92583	Thank you for your response. I am partially satisfied, I hope that in practice this partnership will be a relationship between taxpayers and inspectors, customs and tax administrations, because in practice it is a different situation. And I hope and expect to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92584	Let's ask the question of the 17th Representative Sanja Putica, the question is asked by Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92585	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, last week we had a chance to see and witness the two new projects of the Ministry of Defense. Last week, in Pula, you announced that a Croatian army unit is returning to Pula and that to that end, the government will donate land, military airport in Pula and the Ližnjan municipality. I'm asking that for reasons, because I'm a resident of the Dubrovnik Neretva County, and I witnessed in Ploca the other day that the army has returned to Ploče and in the opening of a restored military station now named after the 116th brigade. My question is, what these projects mean specifically for the citizens of these places and these parts of the Republic of Croatia and how they will, in fact, act in those places and in the inhabitants themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92586	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92587	Greetings to all the Sabre MPs and MPs. Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues of ministers, colleagues and distinguished representatives of Sanja, thank you very much for the question. You saw, just last week, that we opened two very important, i.e. closed two very important projects, which is the return of the Croatian Army to Ploče. It's a big deal, we brought the Croatian army back south to Ploče, we opened the military, it's military, it's 116th brigade, it's a symbol of victory in southern Croatia. A new unit has arrived, the new ability of the Croatian army, the Company of the Navy's 10th Infantry. We are a maritime country, therefore, this arrival of the army to southern Croatia, is in a function of security, it is in function, helping local people and, in particular, economical much means it is 160 jobs. In addition, at a meeting of the Government in Pula, we also made a decision on the return of the army to Istria. Istra made a huge contribution to the Homeland War, 119. Pulska, 154. The Paz brigade fought for Croatia's freedom. And I think the strategic thing is, it's a very important thing to get the army back to Pula and we're going to do it in '19. And the '20s. Sir, there will be a center for... aircraft systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there is the headquarters of the 4th Infantry Regiment and I say, again, that return to the security function, to help the local community and again, the economic position of 100 and 160 jobs in Istria. You've seen before, this government has returned the army to Vukovar, then we've returned the army to Sinj and at the end of this year we're returning the army to Varazdin. It's all, it's these five projects, it's all in the function of security, in function, that our soldiers are closer to families, in the function of helping the local community, that we can react more quickly, more readily when our people need to engage the army. Therefore, what we are doing, systematically, this government strengthens the capabilities of the Croatian military and you have seen that we have a great army, soldiers, officers, officers who professionally carry out their obligations and I, once again and from this place, congratulate them on that we will continue to build security, build the Croatian army to the pride of all Croatia and open new projects, which are also in the function of strengthening the capabilities of the Croatian army. You've also seen a victory celebration in the Storm, the same with our partners, our allies, and that's it. What we do, we strengthen the Croatian army's attitude towards the Homeland War, this attitude towards the people, and here, once again, we go on to build a Croatian army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92588	Here's my friend Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92589	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for this answer. And here, I'm glad that after the adoption of the Homeland Security Act in this House, he gets his implementation actually in practice and thanks for the answer that I'm pleased with.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92590	I thank you, we are now going to question number 18, MP Michael Zmajlovic, asking the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Gabrieli Zalac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92591	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister Grief. In a valid portfolio you inherited a series of prepared projects, which were provided with funds and are still secured through the operational programme cohesion and competitiveness. You recently boasted of the 10 most successful Croatian projects, but what concerns me personally, which is also issues for Minister Ćorić, that there is in fact not a single relevant and important project in the field of environmental protection among these projects. What is further worrying is that when you look at half a year's budget, so this year, the realisation on that item is only 13%. So almost a billion kunas of project implementation in the field of environmental protection, energy efficiency, and realisation is only 13%. I ask you a question, how is it possible and how do you intend to implement these funds because it is not only a matter of economic, economic activity but also a question of the realisation of certain objectives that we have committed ourselves to. The quantities of waste that are dumped on landfills are growing rather than shrinking. The waste management centers are not built, the cost of construction works is growing, studies... on the basis of which the planned projects are outdated, is reinvested in new documentation, in new studies, and in fact there is no realisation of new competitions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the water economy, no one dares to call a tender because absolutely the Ministry of Regional Development and Environmental Protection is not coordinated, it is not prepared for such projects to be implemented and put into realisation The money's secure, I'm asking you what you're gonna do by the end of the year? [[Intruder President: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92592	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92593	Dear Representative Zmajlović, honourable parliamentary representatives, Croatian Parliament Speaker, Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow vice-presidents and ministers. Here, thank you for your question. We're talking about a priority... 6 Environmental and resource protection in which we therefore have specific objectives concerning both waste and environmental protection and therefore energy efficiency in part, but of course also the water economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have to say that the location of 475 million euros when we talk about waste is in favour of 30 percent of allocation being agreed on by projects, that we also have the remaining amount of 340 million euros. This is the difference between the total allotment of the value of the agreed projects available. What I must say, and it goes in favor of therefore, this priority axis in which it is inevitable, I must say that there are problems of certain and we are deeply aware of these same problems and my colleagues, Coric and I, since we are the governing body, and they are therefore the intermediate body of level 1, there are in the structure of both Croatian water and the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency. However, I must say that so far 8 calls have been granted for the delivery of project proposals, and a grant contract has been signed for 5, so direct allocations, so let me count. It is the Centre for Waste Management Bikarac, the Centre for Waste Management Biljana Donja, equipment for CGO Mariščina, the recovery of the black spot Sovjak, the production of documentation for CGO Shagulje, Orlovnjak and Zagreb. Three calls are still in the process, it takes time to receive reports. When we talk about the recovery and closure of the waste disposal site, four contracts have been signed so far, the construction of recycling yards, the implementation of education and information activities programme on sustainable waste management, etc. What should certainly be said about new projects, which is that the containers for separate collection of municipal waste in preparation, construction of waste collection plants and composts, bioprocessing plants were biowaste, construction of the municipality's waste management centre Lečevica in Split-Dalmatia County, construction of a regional waste management centre Piškornica for 4 counties of north-western Croatia, construction of County CGO Babina Gora in the Karlova County, CGO Lucino Razdolje, purchase of vehicles and equipment, construction of a recycling facility and other smaller projects in the waste sector. Also, the recovery of Karepovac dump, a limited call for retroactive use of funds in Split-Dalmatia County and a new call for disposal. I must admit that at a time when we are talking about projects like this, and we are pulling funds from the cohesion fund, so we can go back a little bit, we can go back some 10 years, I would say so, from the waste management plan itself, the major changes and when you were minister, then Minister Dobrović, etc., debates on the control system of European funds in which I just wanted to change the system to be a little better, faster, etc., then we always go back to what would sometimes be blamed at a certain point, so this government. We've made every effort to raise the level of contracting the funds since we found them from 9% to 53%, currently 75%, an allocation of 10.7 billion kuna, we've made public calls, these projects, of course, that when they last and prepare for so long they can't, of course, be done the way they were originally planned. So what I have to say anyway is that there's a lot of work to be done. And in this area. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92594	Let's move on to question number 19. Representative Gordan Maras is asking the president... And I'm sorry. [[You can't hear it.]] Excuse me, express your satisfaction or dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92595	Here, I'm going to express my dissatisfaction with the answer to the question because the fact that there's a lot of work going on doesn't talk about realisation. I was talking about that realisation isn't good, that for the first six months we only have 13% of the real estate and that's the problem with realisation itself. Not the very fact that you have agreed or that you are working on a contract and preparing the documentation. Here is a key problem in realisation, and it is impossible for us to further trust that the deadlines for which we have committed will be respected and it is almost certain that we will unfortunately have to pay for the foam from the waste management area. So I think that there is no inter-resorship cooperation, one serious action plan how these projects are realised and how to ensure, among other things, that citizens consume these funds and not just those which are issues related to individual resolutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92596	Here we go now, the 19th question, representative Gordana Maras asks the Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92597	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, my question goes to you. Unfortunately, Croatia is turning into a country where fewer people want to live. With your heavy breaths whether they're like this or not, that's a fact, you have to agree with me over 100,000 people have left Croatia. He doesn't see that beautiful, wonderful policy of yours, your reform efforts, no one feels you, but he feels he's turning the country into a place where they don't want to live, which I think is the greatest responsibility of your work. Last week, here you are, and I can back you up justifiably to the defenders and Mr. Culey that you will choose your coalition partners and that you do not mind that your colleague Pupovac continues to support you and I think it is correct. But you've also chosen other partners. For example, in Zagreb, or the pillar of your coalition, your authority is the mayor of Zagreb Milan Bandic. Without him, there is no Andrej Plenkovic as prime minister of the Republic of Croatia. A colleague Milan Bandić in his club has been properly funded by representatives who make up the club and are not selected from his list of the money of the citizens of Zagreb whose inhabitants you are, you are paying in taxes and Mr. Mayor is funding the money from the representatives who came to him and somehow keep you in power. For me, it's borderline political corruption, Mr. Plenkovic. And he, Mayor Milan Bandic, a fine gentleman, we have heard this in recent weeks supports you and you are for him the best prime minister Croatia can have. I wonder if you are proud of your friend Milan Bandic, do you support such a way of political work and will you continue to hand in hand with the mayor of Zagreb, who acts on me at the border of political corruption? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92598	Thank you. Prime Minister, go ahead. Thank you. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92601	Dear Representative Maras, thank you very much for your question. And I congratulate you on your election for the president of the SDP City Organisation. Carefully listening to what you asked me, it seems to me that you are mistaken for the forum where you should have asked your question. This is a question not for the Croatian Parliament, but for the second part of Mark's square, Cirilomethodska, City Assembly. I think you should ask such questions in the City Hall. There comes the mayor, nice, regular once a month, here's Andri, the president of the assembly is here. I ask our President of the City Assembly to make a special point for these genres of questions. I don't know exactly what SDP genre you're in, it changes so quickly, which current is for who, where it is, secretly, not secretly, publicly, half-publicly, who with whom and how. It's just hard for me to track. I love you and I follow you very much. But this now, I'm no longer sure and I have the impression that even most of the public isn't safe. So in terms of active legitimacy, passive legitimacy, please Yosaka, here's a fellow lawyer who gives extensive interviews to colleagues to Marasa a little bit explaining what forum they're wondering about. So this is what you ask nicely in the City Assembly, and there's a debate about how some of your vice presidents are leaving the SDP club at once. Are they perhaps dissatisfied? Are they unhappy that you became the president of the city organization, that's the real question. Let the other parties go, you take care of your own, now that you've got a mandate. As far as you're concerned, how about the other party? The other party has a life. The other party has a life. And I'm going to try to identify the genre of these SDP fractions as Gordan Maras. I'm trying to figure it out but it's not clear at first, you don't see you. You've been so busy and complicated, one with this, with that, coming out, not coming out, it's hard. It's a maze. We could do one game on the computer to figure out who's with who. But it's not easy, it's not easy, here. It's really not easy for me. I'll consult with my colleagues in the city HDZ to decrypt a little, decrypt who's the strongest and closest. And especially who else can go to Milan as far as the SDP in Zagreb is concerned. That's what I'm interested in right now. Well, here you go, and Pernar's fun, look. So that's the main question now. Because it's not a matter of pride right now, the question is how big that club is going to grow from who. And you seem to me like one tank of councilmen who's about to be used. That's what it looks like to me. Since we're playing City Hall. So you as the new president of the SDP of the City of Zagreb must work hard to know who is for you, who is not. It's not easy, it's not easy Gordan, it's a basic task. And I'm glad that unlike before, you're dealing with your new themes and these are city issues. However, the place is not the Croatian Parliament, but the City Assembly. And I will be happy to ask Andrija Mikulić to prepare a special point for Gordan Maras according to this questionnaire. Is that Gordan OK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92603	Why, colleague Andrej Plenkovic, is it so hard to say that you are proud of Mayor Bandic, that he is your friend, to hold your hand and hold you in power and that your authority and government stems from his behaviour that everyone in Croatia sees, what everyone knows, why is it so difficult to admit? You don't belong to the people who will look away when they see something's wrong and say no, it's none of my business, the main thing is that I'm okay with it. You can laugh all you want, that's funny to you? But is it okay if someone spends public money to collect MPs to support you? Well, I'd appreciate you to say no, I won't, it's not acceptable to me, I want a different Croatia, I don't want a swamp, I don't want a cough, I want nontransparentity, I want corruption, say that, I want you to be encouraged. You may become the chairman of the committee, Andrei, they may recognize you. But you can't do that, Andrei, people are leaving because of you, you're the lighthouse people act on. If Andrej shines like Milan Bandic then people leave Croatia, if the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia says it is unacceptable behavior, then people see here there is a chance. The problem is Mr. Plenkovic not in the one who uses the situation, as the mayor of Zagreb does, but he who supports it and who allows it, which is you. You will stand by those corrupt, at the border of corruption, as prime minister, but believe me, it is not my honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92604	Now let's go to question number 20. Representative Zeljka Josic questions Health Minister Milan Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92605	I would like to thank the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister and Minister of Government. Dear counterpart Kujundzic, works at my Sisak hospital are in full swing, for which most of the funds are provided by EU funds. Of course, when the facilities for the day hospital are built and the hospital hospital is united, we'll need the equipment. We are witnessing that a large investment has been made in recent months from the European Fund for the Purchase of Medical Equipment. What we saw a few days ago, 9 health institutions received very valuable devices of magnetic resonance. There are general hospitals among these facilities, and I believe that as a hospital, we will also receive such a top-level device. And my question to you is what is the expected benefit of this purchased equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92606	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92607	Dear MPs and Dr. Josic. We are all witnessing in fact that in the last 2 years there have been very serious shifts in the Croatian health system regarding equipment and the construction of a hospital, so this government has started not to talk, but to withdraw money, work, obtain equipment and direct it towards needs, and many needs are in the Croatian health system. So all over Croatia in all hospitals are arranged united emergency receptions and daily hospitals, which are two basic directions, I was talking about once, with a functional merger of the county emergency... emergency reception and concessionaries, i.e. health care homes, will improve emergency health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, the equipment of the daily hospitals increases the effectiveness of the treatment and reduces the number of lying in hospitals. Those wearing banners and gossiping about this health system, what he said several times, are mostly people who do not know, whose contribution to the Croatian health system is minor and who would not dare enter any emergency today. I'm going to draw them another banner so they can understand because obviously some things don't understand. They don't understand why we've acquired magnetic resonances now, not just to clinical hospitals, but to two county hospitals, Zadar and Varazdin. They don't understand that we encourage actually those who know how to work, have work results, have performance. I'm also afraid they don't understand the meaning of the coronography apparatus and the angiograph apparatus. Here I am looking at one of our colleagues who is here with us today, and if there was no embolectomy in Split at that moment and pulled a clot from the blood vessel in the brain he would have been, either in the other world, or he would have been severely disabled, immobilized, in a bed or in a wheelchair. So with the purchase of equipment, we will do this to improve the network where all Croats throughout Croatia will be able to get a stent in the heart within 2 hours and thus not die of heart attack and can be done invasive angiography and thus removed from the brain and will not remain severely disabled. But we didn't forget, of course, oncology patients with a supply of accelerators. Linears primarily on the Rebr as the leader of our home and we won't stop. So we continue, now we're in Istria, I'm in Istria telling one truth, Istria's best when it's in HDZ power. In 2011, the HDZ decided to build a new hospital in Pula, so there are those here who sit and talk and take care of patients in Kvarner and have done nothing, have been in power for 4 years, and this government has provided 100m euros to build a hospital in Rijeka and has now completed a hospital in Pula. So I think it's enough for the Croatian people to talk and not work and never do anything. Croatian people need governments that will have results. And on this trail we will continue to build, I started with Istria, and we will also create a daily hospital in northern Istria because it is a correction to the injustice of that part of the population. We will ensure all of this from the EU funds and I think that this government will leave behind organised and developed health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92608	Thank you. Let's move on, now it's the MP's turn, excuse me, MP Josic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92609	I thank the ministers. I am extremely pleased as a health care professional to invest in our health care especially glad to invest in equipment because we are aware that in the vast majority of hospitals it has worn out. Of course, the hospital buildings are disastrous to some hospitals, which I can confirm is the same in my general hospital. I believe that these investments will allow better quality work for healthcare professionals and doctors and technicians and nurses and that this will also enable the service that goes towards the end-user to be better quality and I also believe that this will enable our colleagues not to leave Croatia but that they can stay on quality equipment and be satisfied both in our small hospitals and in clinical hospitals and in the KBCs in our RH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92610	Let's move on. 21st question MP Domagoj Hajdukovic asks the Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92611	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Croatian Prime Minister, we have been closely following the difficult situation in Croatia Airlines for over a year. Apart from the fact that employees leave, go to other companies, late flights, cancel out, machines aren't in the best shape, it's all followed by the bad financial problems of our national airline now for years unnamed management, non-signing of a collective contract. These same workers even by decision, in accordance with the court's decision, have no right to express their dissatisfaction or strike because they did not negotiate in good faith. Also, every day you can see especially during the tourist season and the dissatisfaction of Croatia Airlines passengers. Just for what I was saying. Delays, cancellations, etc., etc. At the beginning of the year I asked Minister Butkovic a written question about this, what does the government intend to do to ensure the business of the company, especially in the tourist season and with tourist results we all like to admire? I got an answer after several months one very empty, I wouldn't even say bureaucratic answer without anything concrete in it. I must admit that this angered me not only as a parliamentary representative but also as a citizen of this country, as a passenger of Croatia Airlines, as a man who cares that our national airline is doing well and I want to put first the families that depend on income, people who work in Croatia Airlines. What my question is to you, so now I ask you specifically, what does the Government do to help Croatia Airlines in this situation?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92612	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92613	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. Minister Butkovic, as the minister in charge, answered you, takes care. What should also be taken into account by the state to ensure that our national air carrier fulfills its role in I will now use the term of tourist activity and not the tourist season that is so prolonged that when results are aggregated, then the business of Croatie Airlines in terms of the arrival of the number of passengers, all that marks such tourist successes of the country, is crucial. It doesn't make any sense to me that when the intensity of the journey is highest, when the revenues are ahead of you not to work then. That doesn't make much sense. Find a hotel on the Adriatic, find a restaurant or anyone else who'll say right now. It doesn't make sense. However, the decisions made here on this strike you referred to were made by the court. The court has made those decisions. Court. Very important, you need to respect what the court has to bring. As for the long-term sustainability of Croatia Airlines, the ministry and the company itself, and the management at the moment represents Mr. Bajic, is working on solutions that will make business of the company even more effective with a strategic partner. That's the point and that's the goal. But she will work despite all the obstacles she faces. And any interesting lobbys that are hired here. It's a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92614	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I didn't comment on the court's decision, I asked what the government would do. I got the answer that Minister Butkovic gave me. We're working on solutions, and what are those solutions, I'm asking you, Prime Minister? Of course, Minister Butkovic is a resolute minister but you're the most responsible man and now you tell me, not me as a representative of how to be satisfied with this answer, how can the workers of Croatia Airlines be satisfied with this answer? How can Croatia Airlines passengers be satisfied with this response? How can the Croatian public be satisfied with this response? How can citizens be satisfied with your attitude we are working on solutions? Well done if you work, but I don't see them. Where are those solutions? I've tried to be specific and clear, I've been doing content, I haven't dealt with empty rhetoric as you've heard me now, I'm saddened by your attitude or your ambivalence to this problem. But I'm telling you from this place, I'm not going to stand up to you, I'm going to pour you questions, if I have to, every week I'm going to write you a new question, so let's see how long you can ignore them. Six months. As the minister ignores me, I won't stop. It's your responsibility, Prime Minister. It's your responsibility. I'll keep reminding you of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92616	Now it's MP Marko Šimic's turn. He asks Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92617	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with co-workers, respected Minister Bosnjakovic. My question concerns the executive law. Before the summer, you presented a new draft of the Law proposal, and I believe that due to this summer break, there were too few serious media inscriptions and too few serious speeches about the new Executive Law proposal. Many governments had previously boasted that they would also announce that they would pass an executive law that would be fairer, which would cut costs and indeed in this space of two months we've heard a lot about this. We've heard a lot of criticism, but here I am, and the general public is interested in what direction this new concept of performance is heading. I am interested, as well as in the general public that the paper introduces this Law and whether there will be a reduction in costs, interest, or how much it will cost under the new Implementing Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92618	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92619	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Simic. Both the Croatian government and the Ministry of Justice have taken a whole series of measures for our citizens who have been blocked, and we have worked really hard on making a new executive law. This whole package, if I may say so, also gives the blocked measure the results that are visible. I'll just remind you that the principal of all those claims was $42 billion in blocked accounts. Today it's about 18 billion, so it's more than halved. The number of our blocked citizens is getting smaller every day because these government measures taken by the government are following both the city of Zagreb and other cities, followed by teleopers and the number of blocked citizens is smaller every day. However, what we promised, that we would approach the creation of a new whole executive law, we have fulfilled. We're here, before the summer break just presented the new Executive Act, his first work text and we actually gave it up for discussion. We held one round table and we expect that further debate that will go to the regular table and the regular procedure, and then end up in the government. After the government first reading here in the Parliament that I believe we'll be spending by the end of this year, and in the beginning of the next one, I think we'll bring it. The new concept of the executive law is actually that what we said, the procedure is currently quite dispersed, various bodies carry out the performance. With this new law, we imagined that the center of execution would be remanded in court. To be back in court and the second principle that we want to actually achieve, which we promised, is that the costs of this exercise are significantly lower. The procedure will be digitized in many ways, we will prescribe patterns, we will prescribe communication by electronic means with the court, and that will in itself lead to savings. So, no one will be able to charge more, I don't know how many thousands of kunas for the composition of the proposal for the performance when he's actually not going to put it together, but he's going to fill out the form that we're going to bring. We had one problem, and we still have one, and that is the decision of the EU Court of Justice which says that these solutions to the performance of our public notebooks, that this is not satisfactory because, simply by their rules, the European regulation does not actually treat it as a judicial body. In this way, as we have come up with a new Executive Act, all solutions will be made by our courts, and these positions and these roles and financial agencies and public notaries have been redefined and we will treat the public notaries as commissioners of the court. Because if we go back to court now, we're going to get new actually big backlogs, a large number of cases, and that's why we're going to keep the notebooks, but in a completely different function than it is today. They will be the commissioners of the court, they will actually prepare the documentation, the court will exercise control and then bring solutions. We are also very concerned about some of the weak points that are today. We're going to protect the real estate even stronger because we think that real estate can only be the subject of execution in exceptional situations, so we're going to be the border, that's the proposal that we said couldn't be done with real estate for less than 20,000 kuna, now our proposal is to raise it to 40. In addition, a whole series of receipts, such as journals, such as field allowance fees, such as Christmas card, regress, and we want to free this as income actually from the performance. So, we'll all be able to work together on this Law and all the good suggestions we'll see. In a public debate, we'll accept. [[Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92620	It's obvious. Comrade Simic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92621	I thank you for your response, and I really believe that the new Implementing Law will solve many of the problems that the current Implementing Law has shown during its consumption, especially in putting the equal relationship of the entities in the process, reducing the costs by the perpetrators and speeding up and simplifying the procedure. But I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity and thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia, especially the departments of construction and the Ministry of Justice, who visited Slavonski Brod yesterday and therefore brought the contract there and the energy reconstruction of the municipal court building. It's not some high value project, but for us brodians it's an extremely big project, it's 8 million kunas that will come into our city, the court building will be restored, and finally that court will look like an institution of the Republic, and finally these people in that court will show the right person and the way they work, and to the citizens such a court, the renewed court will indeed be proud. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92622	Let's move on. Representative Zeljko Reiner, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, questions Croatian Defence Minister Tomi Medvedu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92623	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I had an opportunity in Zagreb to see some of the locations where field research and exhumation of post-mortem remains of innocent victims killed by communists after the end of World War II. As I am personally involved in the work of the Macelj Association, I am familiar with this problem, and with all the reasons why it was initiated in my time to establish an office to find the marking and maintenance of the graves of the victims of the communist crime after the 2nd World War. He was joined by the SDP government despite numerous protests by the Croatian Defence Ministry. Unfortunately at that moment for some time, almost all the activities, to the discovery of the cemetery and exhumation of the victims died. I am pleased to see that this important topic is again focused on the work of the Croatian Defence Ministry since you led it. It is good that we have the first concrete results, because a people who do not know and forget their past are condemned to repeat it. Innocent victims, whom half a century were not allowed to speak of, and their loved ones never found out about their fate, nor where their bones lie, have the right to be properly buried and that Croatia is finally worthy of marking the places of their deaths. Please answer me, since you've been at the head of the Ministry, what are all the activities that have been carried out, what are the locations examined, what have been the number of victims discovered so far, and what are your further plans with this in relation?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92624	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92625	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr. Reiner, thank you for your question. The Croatian Defence Ministry is involved in research and arrangement of cemeteries, victims of 2nd St. War and postwar period, and according to the Law on Research, Planning and Maintenance of Military Cemeteries, the Cemetery of Victims 2nd St. The war and the postwar period. This involves all phases of the process, from receiving initial information on the possible location of the individual or mass grave by collecting additional knowledge and documentation, conducting field reconnaissances, testing exhumations, to the burial of the remains, and marking the place of mass graves. In the last 2 years, there has been a significant improvement in the methodology of work, and thus success and results due to increasing, targeted, educated human capacities and necessary technologies. Total number of locations reported, possible mass and individual tombs, from the period 2nd St. War or postwar period is 936. As of 21 March 2016, 651 applications were received, indicating the observed positive growth of the registered locations in the term of office of this Government. During this period we organized, coordinated and conducted 269 field reconnaissances and 25 test excavations in the area of 6 counties and in the City of Zagreb. 51 exhumations were carried out in 11 counties in the City of Zagreb and 776 people were exhumed. 396 people were buried. We have especially intensified our activities in several locations in the City of Zagreb area. At the location of Gracani, where 7 locations were processed and 295 remains were exhumed. At a location in Savska, near the school, 25 people were exhumed in the first phase. The second phase is in the plan for the next period. At the site of Tuškanac, in the first stage, the remains of at least 24 people were exhumed. The following works show the remains of at least 48 people so far. Also in the site Jelenovac in the first phase, the remains of at least 25 people were exhumed, and the second stage is planned for the next period. These are indicators that we are working hard at all stages of the process, from receiving information to a decent burial of victims found and marking the site of mass graves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92626	Here's my colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92627	I thank you for your response, and especially for your intensive start again with the discovery and exhumation of those who the communists killed after the end of the 2nd St. The war. Namely, there are no ideologies, nor policies that could justify killing without a court of captured and disarmed soldiers, let alone children, women and old men, priests, nuns, who are mass-killed and secretly buried or thrown into pits without bottom. It was simply and remained a terrible crime. Unfortunately, the victims can't and won't come to life, and although their murderers have gone completely unpunished and dead, for decades they've enjoyed the blessings of those taken from those who killed, as a reward they've received high wages and pensions, and today these criminals are mostly deceased, families, children, and grandchildren of the dead, where the remains of their loved ones lie, and only when those remains are properly buried and the graves are marked, killed and their families will find their peace. It is our obligation to do everything to make sure that these victims are not left to historical oblivion, and their names are permanently stored in national memory, when already their murderers have not arrived due punishment. So please and I encourage you to continue even more intensively, with what you've been doing successfully over the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92628	Now, let's go to Question 24, MP Andrija Mikulić, the question is asked by the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, Darko Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92629	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as Ministers and Ministers, and respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I have a question for Minister Horvat, so today more than 300 million Europeans are using the Internet every day. There is a constant growth in the number of forms in which digital technologies enter our lives, both in private and business activities. The fast-tracked daily life particularly highlights the advantage of digital technologies, which is that they allow fast and efficient access to various services. Dear Ministers, how does the Croatian economy monitor these trends and whether digital services or digital services are introduced that would make business easier for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92630	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92631	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for asking the question. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and MPs, the Honorable President of the Croatian Government, fellow ministers and ministers. Well, the Ministry of Economy has been working systematically for years already on, through action plans to remove administrative barriers in a way that turns those paperwork administrative procedures into electronic implementation of digital procedures. So, in the 2017 action plan, 60 such measures were introduced in 2018, we end the action plan where '98 will take place. Such measures shall be in the phase of implementation. And we believe that we will save about 625 million kuna for Croatian entrepreneurship, the economy, the real sector. In about a month's time, we will be sure to present to the Croatian public a new action plan, which will have 138 such measures in the hope and desire to deploy the business of the Croatian real business sector with an additional 800 million kuna. I must also point out that in the second reading, therefore, we have passed a second reading without major and radical changes, additions and changes, in the second reading of the law that introduces the obligation to receive and issue e-accounts. So that all entrepreneurs, i.e. sectoral users from 1.12. this year will have a commitment to be accepted and, as of 1.7.2019, to issue so-called issues. e-accounts which will significantly speed up or a and cheapen the process of public procurement or publishing and receipt of accounts. Likewise, what we are actively and intensively dealing with on August 12th of this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted the regulation, and at this moment we are preparing several decisions based on which we will create a digital environment within which, within two days, every potential entrepreneur of the day will be able to start from his living room or any other environment in which he will have access to the Internet, by filling in a relatively simple form, form by electronic means, or by means of electronic means, the creation of a company, i.e. crafts. And the process in question by networking 6 different institutions will give us the opportunity and opportunity to do so only in 2 days. Ine other activities lead to us having completed the phase of preparation by the end of the year, the Digital Economy Strategy, which is currently being done by a renowned team of experts from the academic community, which is currently operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, so that we will round up one process of strategic approach to digitisation, not only of the Croatian economy, but of a total Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92632	Thank you. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92633	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his reply. Surely one such approach will provide better and better quality conditions and create a better and better quality environment for the economy. But I would like to point out that in this part of the digital services, therefore, the EU has also recognised the positive shifts in this part of the government which mentions this in its report when it talks about the digital economy and society index, especially in terms of the willingness to introduce digital technologies. In conclusion, of course, I welcome every measure that will enable our economies to deliver a better result, will facilitate their business, thereby directly affecting their performance and ultimately the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92634	The 25th is Kreso Beljak, who asks his question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Minister Marija Pejcinovic-Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92635	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the question to Minister Pejcinović-Buric but Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is here and apparently has his day. It concerns the foreign policy of the HSS. Dear Minister, dear Prime Minister, is it as someone who should take care of the Croatian interest in the international community uncomfortable when they ask you what is happening in Croatia? Are you uncomfortable when you, or all of us, are called as a country that has given up all the anti-fascist values of modern Europe and that systematically implements historical auditism? That's how he breaks his own constitution. Have you made any calculations that bring this good connection to the countries of Eastern Europe, which systematically together with the president, nothing caused you to carry us away and turn your back on the central states of the EU, Germany and France? And I must congratulate Mr Plenkovic, so this is one congratulatory to be able to deal with the situation in other parties, which actively participates in human resources in other parties while at the same time his party, apparently, is falling apart in the cracks of historical ideology of the history of World War II as we have the opportunity to see from today's questions that have been asked to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92636	Here's the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92637	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, MPs and MPs, colleagues and colleagues. I would ask a rhetorical question at first, whether, if your party is an EPP member, if, then, participates, then you participate in this largest group of parties in the EU, in the European Parliament and in these meetings and I participate in some of them, you participate, the prime minister participates, and tomorrow, too, along with the European Council, in a group of these, you know what Croatia is and what is being discussed. What you're talking about, I've never heard of. I was at a council meeting yesterday, yesterday morning I was at a meeting that always before the Council was held, so members and members and representatives of the EP as organisations and ministers and state secretaries, so I never heard what you were talking about. So there's no such question. If you do not know, Croatia is a member of the EU and a member of NATO. This, to the greatest extent and to the greatest extent, determines our foreign policy and, of course, regulates our within the structure and our behavior. So inside of that, within one and the other of this alliance that we are in, the associations, I have never heard such a question, so I'm surprised that you're asking him as a member of a very prominent and powerful European group, so democratic parties and states. As for the position of the Republic of Croatia, I can tell you, I was in the United States last week. I met with my colleague Pompe, our conversation focused most on our bilateral relations, on what we think and what we support, or how we see the situation in our close region, but also on some other issues. I met with the deputy security advisor for President Trump, and I was at President Trump's reception. None of what you're saying has ever become so I don't know what the forums are where you listen and talk about it. And as for how it works, so we are members of the EU and NATO, inside that there are on certain issues depending on the subject, depending on national interests, depending on the overall interests, there are certain topics that you agree with a particular group more or less. If you are alluding to this, Croatia participates in some initiatives involving Central and Eastern European countries, I see nothing that is incompatible with our membership in the EU and NATO, however, so we must look at other opportunities in which we can strengthen and strengthen our national interests. We're also working with China, we'll have until next year's China plus 16 summits. So, a global world power that has decided to give Croatia the presidency in front of a meeting called China +16. So, again, 16 Central and Eastern European countries meeting on common interests. I believe that as a member of the Assembly and a member of the HSS who is a member of the EPP, you have nothing against it Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian Government, represents interests which are aimed at improving both the international position and the economic position of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia is preparing soon for the presidency of the EU Council of 1.1. we are in trinity with other countries, so at all levels we are chairing the Council of Ministers committee of the Council of Europe, I see no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92638	Thank you. Here's your colleague, Whitey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92639	Thank you very much. I must express my satisfaction with your answer. I am glad that you have more or less resolutely denied what I have said and that you stand firm on anti-fascist foundations as was the founder of your party Dr. Franjo Tudjman. And I'm glad because that's how you indirectly shut your mouth to all those who carry out the history review and come from your ranks. The first, therefore, Minister Bear, to bury soldiers from II the other day. a world war with military honors that broke the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, it's not allowed, it's a review of the past, Minister Divjak, who lets basic school in the 6th grade lecturers contain songs about Jura and Boban. Here's the minister who knows very well, I have a child who goes to the sixth grade, I personally saw a book that is mandatory to a lecturer in which criminals from II are mentioned. World War I. I'm glad you denied it, only I ask you and the Prime Minister to do it in your own party, because you obviously have a history of problems within your own ranks. And thank you for reminding me of which party I am, and I repeat myself again, it turns out that exactly what I'm saying is that you are more concerned with other parties than with your own party. So please, you resolve first of all with your auditists within HDZ who have a lot of oho-ho and in the ranks of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which Mr. Plenkovic is headed and you won't have to justify, such questions will not be, you will show that with that on the trail of Dr. Franjo Tuđman, European HDZ, anti-fascist Croatia and that you care about the future of our homeland and leave HSS alone, we have survived all totalitarianism, we have survived the Ustasha regime, the communist regime, we will survive your regime, leave your fingers away from the oldest Croatian political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92640	Let's move on. He is now a representative of Angelko Strick, who is asking the question of Interior Minister Davor Bozinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92641	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, Minister, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking Minister Bozinovic. During last year, numerous media outlets wrote about poor police equipment and poor police working conditions. Thus, we can read articles under the heading MUP each month leaving 32 people or going to Ireland and Germany, and forced to lift anchors. This year there is obviously a twist, so we read articles entitled Croatian police officers in Croatian products. Or for the MUP will make Vartex or signed agreements on the accommodation of police officers in numerous units of local self-government such as Dubrovnik, Novalja, Rovinj. [[Intruder Reiner: Please a few colleagues, allow fellow Striker to speak]] Therefore, my question to the Minister is whether this is a new approach to the state of general security, or to the persons in charge of its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92642	The reply of the respected Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bozinovica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92643	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, thank you for that question and I'm glad you noticed that this is about one turn, and I'm going to try to explain it briefly to see that it's part of a systematic way of working. Namely, after I took over my team, the responsibility for the work of the Ministry of the Interior, we have made numerous analyses and we have just been confronted with these signs that the Croatian police do not have enough equipment. It was mentioned, and our analyses show that more than 5,000 people did not have everything that they actually owned under the rules of the Ministry of the Interior, and this analysis showed that the reason was not only or mainly that they were not financial resources, i.e. a lack of financial resources, but rather one unquality preparation of competitions so-called. The drop in competitions so that the funds from year to year would fall, and this all reflects on the Croatian police officer who needs equipment to do his job. And that is why we started a systematic action, so to call it, negotiations and framework agreements, which is why we resolved the issue of equipmenting the Croatian police with basic equipment in a few years' time. So it's this systematic approach, so today exactly the Croatian policeman is from head to heel equipped. All this equipment is in storage and the largest part of this equipment is Croatian production. Here, now on Monday you could see the fully equipped intervention police. So 1250 intervention officers in brand-new equipment built according to their demands, according to their specifications, since they know best what they need. The issue of ballistics has also been resolved, so the issue of equipment for the border service has been resolved, but in view of these new changes related to the merger of agencies, we have also addressed the issue of civil protection systems. So last week alone, we signed more than 40 million European funds to equip Croatian firefighters with new vehicles or radio-communications issues for all protection and rescue services in a way that we can solve all of this so that suddenly everyone gets everything. So far, there have been, I don't know, 200-300 of these, 500 of them. No, I don't. We also deal with long-term agreements with the withdrawal of EU funds that everyone has everything at all times. And that is the fundamental difference, the fundamental change in philosophy, and as you mentioned, it is also seen on the issue of buildings for police stations that have been neglected not only 5, 10 or 20, but also 50 years old. So we work on 26 police stations through an energy reconstruction programme, then co-financing with local self-government units in Croatia, which, together with the Ministry, invest in the equipment of their police stations, but also in co-financing of accommodation costs for police officers who do not have a place of residence where they work, which is usually in the south of Croatia. And they're very important for the tourist season. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92644	Thank you. Your Honor, Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92645	Your Honor, I will not be held back this time, but I will express my satisfaction with the answer. I believe that there is still a need to invest in the security system, not only when it comes to police, but also all other services used to protect and save our citizens. The issue of security is the top issue in many European Union countries, it will continue to be and of course, I think it is clear to all that there is no development of the economy, and especially with us our strategic tourism branches without security. Here, therefore, once more support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92646	Thank you. The next question will be asked by respected representative Domagoj Mikulić, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure to Mr Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92647	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers and Ministers, Honored Minister Butkovic. As we were able to read in the media, Istria was given the green light or support to build part of the highway within the Istrian Ipsilon, and what I am interested in is what the future is about building highways across the Republic of Croatia, mainly here I think of highway A-5 and corridor 5-C, or the completion of this corridor, which is of exceptional importance for all of us in eastern Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92648	The reply of the respected secretary of the sea, transport and infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92649	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. As you yourself said in your question, last week at a session of the Government of the Republic of Pula, a decision was made to continue the construction of the Istrian Ipsilon. The government made a decision to extend the concession contract and thus paved the way for the construction of the second B-1 phase, more specifically from Ucka tunnel to Pazina's total investment value of one billion and 250 million kuna. This is certainly a commendable project because in addition to the security that was at the very stake, according to the data we have about 3 died every year, we have opened new jobs, will affect the growth of the economy and GDP, and in parallel with that, we have opened talks for the second 5.2 phase, more specifically the second tube of the tunnel and the follow-up to Matulja. As for the other activities of Croatian highways, which are in the restructuring process, and of course their investment potential is not at that level, as it was 10 years ago, but the activities are directed right at the construction of PC corridors and in that part is the answer to your question, that at this point the bridge ends in Svilaj, it should be finished next year. He's at P.C. The corridor, the bridge across the Sava River, which we finance together with half of us, half the neighboring BIH, and he should be finished next year. For the part of the Halasic Bridge to Osijek in August, which includes the Drava Bridge, the total value of one billion and 200 million kn, is expected by the end of this year to be the technical examination and completion of the shares, and for the sub-share, according to one sub-share, according to Beli Manastir, the contract is signed in August of this year and the construction of the total value of 82.5 million kn is started. For the end of the shares to Beli Manastir, since there are all construction permits, talks have been held, with international financial institutions, that stock is somewhere around 650 million kuna, moving towards the call for a public tender and we will head for the construction of the highway and the completion of the White monastery. We still have those 5 km to the Hungarian border, for which this year's tender for project documentation is being launched, since we have not yet agreed with the neighbouring Republic of Hungary where we will connect with them, but it is all expensive in the agreement, of course, here and working groups, working together with our colleagues from Hungary. In other words, so we continue to build the A5 highway, the works of this year are on the way to Bela Manastir, and we are opening a tender for this big stock, and I expect with all these activities, that by the end of 2020 or early 2021 we will have a complete highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92650	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92651	Thank you, Vice President. Here, dear Minister, I am pleased to have clear deadlines, what we will be asking in the future about the situation itself, I am pleased that this government and your ministry have launched the completion of this highway, which is truly very important for us both in terms of economic and infrastructure links with everyone on that track, but also across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92652	The next question will be asked by the respected representative Suncana Glavak, Minister of Administration, Mr Lovri Kuštević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I would like to ask my question to Minister Kustević, honourable ministers and ministers, vice presidents and vice presidents. Minister Kuščević, in 2018, the government apostrophyd as a year of reform. However, when we listen to a number of opposition issues today, we might be able to say that in the public space there is an impression that the reform plan is not being implemented or that reforms are not being implemented or that they are in the shadow of day-to-day political events. Reform is a word that has often been abused, especially by some parties, and most of them are sitting here right now in the Croatian Parliament. What has been done is part of the tax reform, which has entered its phase, immediately after the government has taken responsibility for the management of Croatia, it is about fiscal decentralisation and the central state then left to local income tax units, but I am interested in, when it will be managed, when it will continue, which in continued dialogue, in fact cause and advocate both mayors and mayors, with whom the Prime Minister and Government have been meeting since the beginning of their term of office. In particular, the government also adopted an action plan for a functional and accessible public administration, a decision was taken to reduce agencies, depolitisation of public administration was praised. What the public is interested in ministers, how measures from the action plan are implemented, when real depoliticalisation will be carried out, and when they, most professionally, will be able to add value and service to our citizens. When the counties, cities, municipalities will also feel that functional decentralisation, when they will be able to feel it in their work, because of this problem, as well as all other problems, the eyes are against the Croatian government and the Croatian public expects the word reform to live in its full sense, so please give concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92654	Thank you, the answer of the respected management minister, Kuštević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92655	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and MPs, I welcome all of you, and I particularly welcome Mrs Glavak and thank you for the question. So, 3 are the main objectives of me as Minister of Administration at the Ministry of Administration, which are raising the quality and efficiency of public administration, as one, as two decentralisations, as three digitisations. I'm sorry that the Department of Administration found himself in a state that I found, completely devastated, with no idea or perspective, without going to a single project. So, no single project, we didn't have a year and a half ago at the Department of Administration, when I took over as minister of the administration. Today we have 15 projects, of which 2 have already been agreed in implementation, 10 of them, will be agreed by the end of this year and the rest of next year, worth over 800 million kuna and financed by 85% of European funds. It is precisely for these projects to lead to these three goals that I have mentioned, which you have asked in your question. So, as far as I can sum up your question, it's a depolitisation of the public administration, a reduction of the number of officials, it's just done with the State Administration System Act, which will be found very quickly at the e-consultation and at the government's session. It envisions the abolition of state officials and the rank of ministerial assistants and introduces a new category, an official category, which is the director of the administration. This will depoliticalise public administrations, thus reducing the number of state officials. Then, you mentioned the number of agencies well, and here is too long for me to remember, but the government has made a decision to reduce the number of agencies, institutions, funds, institutes, foundations, companies and other legal entities with public authority. It's a total of 54, it's a big cut, 54 agencies, i.e. the institution, and everything that goes will be less, it's significant savings, but it's also a big job. There's a change of 80 laws waiting for us. As for decentralisation and strengthening of units of local and regional regional self-government, there you have well noted the tax reform that has given units of local regional self-government nearly 2 billion kunas annually, and thanks to this they are successful, thanks to this and they are very successful in withdrawing funds for EU projects and implementing their projects, you know that we have strengthened units of local regional self-government with the latest amendments to the law on local regional self-government. But that's not enough. Now the government of the Republic of Croatia through the Law on the State Administration System provides for the merger of the state administration's offices with the counties. So this is the first time a real administrative decentralisation is going to be able to transfer their jobs to the county. This will strengthen the counties and strengthen their fiscal capacity. They can also mention and praise the Law on Maritime Good and Marine Ports, which is led by counterpart Butkovic, who will finally leave the tasks of establishing maritime goods borders to units of regional self-government, i.e. county. So very soon before the Croatian Parliament will come a set of laws that will really decentralisation the local, so decentralisation the government, strengthen local and regional self-government and raise the quality of public administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92656	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Sun Head, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92657	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, thank you for turning off the microphone. We can't do this in a two-way way. Thank you very much for the input, this year there are other preconditions, as I was saying at the outset when I asked you a question, which is that we now have a country surplus, that we have just as good economic forecasts, which is a 3% GDP growth. We hope that this functional decentralisation will also bring concrete shifts as regards growth in the economy and a better economic environment in cities, counties and municipalities. And also for the first time in 20 years, we have a consolidated general government budget that has recorded the surplus, which is extremely important, which means that we can really commit ourselves to reforms and that there should be no obstacle. Of course, let us not forget that political stability is important in all of this. So all those who want this country to go in the right direction, that our citizens live better, will support all these reform measures that you have listed and will support all the quality laws that come from the government of the Republic of Croatia or if they come from representatives in the Croatian Parliament and are directed to the government. If they're for our country's progress, if that's something when we ask a question and when will the citizens feel it? Then let's have a synergy in it and give them support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92658	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by respected representative Ljubica Lukačić to the Minister of Labour and Pension System, Master Marko Pavic. Comrade Bull, please, we won't throw, let's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92659	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, there have been talks here today about pension reform. You know that some rights in the pension system for people with disabilities are unused. So I'm asking you, how many pensions have been raised this year? What have you done for the users of the lowest pension? And have you improved in any way, therefore, in the new reform status and rights of persons with disabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92660	The reply of the respected Minister Pavic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92661	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honored Prime Minister, fellow ministers and fellow ministers, distinguished MPs, distinguished representative Lukacic. Thank you very much for this question. Certainly the government takes care of the pensioners, and the best thing we can see is a record pension increase this year, 2.7% is just an increase in the last equation, 3.65% this year. The government in the pre-election programme has pledged 5% increase in pensions throughout the mandate. So far we've achieved 6.3%, only by last equalization the average pensioner got 69 kuna more. I sat down with Minister Kujundzic, we are aware of additional insurance issues, those who have crossed the censorship by amending the law on voluntary health insurance will solve the problem as well. For the users of the lowest pension, we also have a lot of measures in full pension reform. What I would certainly point out is that the objective of the pension reform that is coming to us is to create a long-term sustainable system, but also to increase pensions, i.e. their adequateness. They can announce that it is those who have the lowest pensions, 248,000 of them, that we will increase pensions by an additional 3% from 1 July next year. They are the most at our risk of poverty, and we are talking to them. I can't help but look back on the thesis and work up to 67 years we extend the labour obligation to 67 years from 2031, but most Croatian citizens will still retire between 61 and 65. Why is that? Because we leave the possibility of a long-term insurance company. Someone who enters the labour market at 18, 19 years old, our cashiers, our builders, our nurses, will be able to go 41 years of internships, so at 61 years of age. After 41 years of employment, students will be able to retire at one age of 65. So only those who, citizens who won't be able to collect those 40 years would remind me that only 20% of the pensioners, the current ones have 40 years of training, will work until 67 years. Thank you once again and personally for everything you do for people with disabilities and thank you for showing us earlier on several instruments in retirement reform concerning persons with disabilities. First of all, I'm thinking of a professional retirement rehabilitation. Our goal is to bring people with disabilities back to the labour market, not their retirement. Therefore, this is exactly where we will suggest that the current remuneration for a professional rehabilitation of 500-700 kuna and of which persons with disabilities should live to increase to minimum wage. People with disabilities want to be included in the labour markets, and therefore many of the measures we have and we have invested over, hundreds of millions of kunas through the Office of Arts in this. I'd like to refer to why our pensions are still growing. Our peace was growing precisely because of the growth in employment and the increase in wages. In the term of office of this government, the average salary was 710 kuna. We have a record low unemployment of 7.9%. We are approaching the EU average but are even more pleased to have 71 thousand more employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92662	Thank you. It's an obvious colleague of Lukacic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92663	Thank you very much for your answer. I am sure that the pension reform will maintain the final pension system sustainable. And after 20 years of rights for people with disabilities, I'd say they improve their status and thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92664	Thank you, too. Now let's go to question 30th, Representative Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic, asks the Prime Minister the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92665	Thank you very much. Perhaps we can respect the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, perhaps we can and we do not have to agree that GDP is the best measure and include some standard court that speaks of the state of some economy. ... Shall I say it again? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we can, or we don't have to agree, here it is, that maybe GDP isn't the most ideal measure, we can take some normative view of it. However, if we talk, I will read it a little bit, if we talk about quarterly growth in 2018 and 2017, watch the data, Bulgaria 3.4, Estonia 3.7, Lithuania 3.8, Latvia 4.4, Malta 5.7, Hungary 4.6, Romania 4.2, Slovenia 4.3, Slovakia 3.9, Croatia 2.8. Therefore, EUROSTAT’s official data. Now, Austria 3.0. And now make sure Austria doesn't absolutely grow, 0%,... The economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know how many years Croatia should reach Austria at this rate of GDP growth? 58 years exactly. Exactly 58 years. And Austria is sewing us now. Do you know what kind of self is created at that moment? And now you think about why, well and there's a lot of demagogy and pulsism, why people leave Croatia. Well, they don't have 58 years to wait until we reach Austria level. And on the other hand, tell me why, but really why didn't you use one, I'll use one database of words, not one true reform that would contribute to the rise of the GDP rate or at least to catch a connection between transition countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92666	Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92667	Thank you, beautiful representative Hajdas-Dončić, I congratulate you first of all on one unique title, I guess you are in the history of the Croatian Parliament the first vice president who has been suspended in his own party and is still holding, that's good. It's one of these fus notes that few people could earn. I even went to consult with some more experienced politicians to try to remember if there were such events but it wasn't. And at the Krapina festival I saw that you were ready to stick to it for a very long time which is good. Now, now you're looking at my license plate. Right? Do you want me to read like you do now or do you want me to talk out of your head? I see you're those 60 seconds like some people here who don't know what's written, probably from other people to read it. So you were Minister of Government in 2015 and then the budget deficit was 12 billion kuna. There's your finance minister at the time, 12 billion kuna, and we were only 2 years after you came into the situation that we had a budget surplus of 2.7 billion kuna. Now, let's do it for me in that one of your tables. Who's running the responsible fiscal policy? Who's running the consolidated policy. Who's the one who's running it better for you or us? Would you give me no idea what you could have been in Pula Minister of Finance so say we have in the first six months a billion and 600 million kuna surplus? Would you rather be a minister in a government where there were no 350 thousand unemployed than in your time but now that Marko Pavic can count, how many Marko? ... 129,000 unemployed, right? [[/Intruder Pavić, you don't understand.]] Therefore, the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, what we are projecting in the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy, we are also realising, here is 2.9% of GDP growth, today I see the Economic Institute coming out by 3%. We're going with what's sustainable and what's real, you've had phase one, phase two, and now it's going to the government for phase three of tax reform. You have a pension reform, you have what Minister Kuščević has not just said to you about the reform of the state administration. You have efforts made by Minister Bosnjakovic in judicial reform. You have everything we've done to relieve the numerous administrative parafiscal burdens that exist that have been done by the Ministry of Economy. You have an entire effort to open up to the digitization of the country that Minister Horvat was just talking about. You have not only the situation that we are the country that is rapidly reducing public debt among the members of the Union, among the top three of us are currently, you were at 85% in 2015, you jumped from 65 to 85, we are now at 76 and 2021 we will be at 65% of GDP. What does that mean? That means I meet the criteria for the Euro Zone. I have a vision, I have a strategy. It's a deal with the CNB. We have steps ahead of us. You have the Exchange Rate Mechanism II that will come in 2020. Therefore, our path is clearly marked, responsible for responsible fiscal policy, investment and structural reforms. In that triangle is our policy and you read whatever tables you want, but look at our sources as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92668	Comrade Hajdash Doncic, for a second, a colleague of Grumo is reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92669	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have violated Article 33, the item means that you, as chairman, need to worry about protecting the rights of MPs. We've had a very nervous prime minister here since this morning who, right after he came forward, he's been throwing himself at us and telling us that we're going to pay, now he's calling the MPs, saying they're reading and he's come with a book all prepared and well prepared and reads from that book all the time. So your job is to protect here. [[President: Mr. Grmo, you're out of time.]] MPs, we don't have to put up with a nervous prime minister here if you have to. [[Intruder President: Don't teach me what my mission is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92670	Comrade Thunderbolt, please, your time is up. So this isn't about any violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please. [[You're gonna tell me to sit down?]] Please, Prime Minister, please, a colleague of the Grmoys as well. [[Bouting Grmoya: You will not speak to me in the Croatian Parliament to sit down.]] There has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister answers as he thinks it should, as MPs ask questions, citizens will judge who is good, who is not, based on which they will give us or not vote in the elections, but neither will you determine how anyone here will speak. I'll determine if there's an insult, the kind of expression I find inappropriate, and that's what I do. And today I didn't warn anyone and there were very difficult words on both sides. So don't intervene. ... There were no threats. [[- I don't understand. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Here's a colleague of Doncic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92671	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Plenkovic, that function hit your head a little bit, so you have a strange level of haughtiness, but it doesn't matter now. Look, even in your government now and also in your party, some people were finance ministers, that's a fact. I wouldn't talk so easily about the reasons for the deficit at the time of some previous government, and why was that, why wasn't it so? So my data is the official data of EUROSTAT and when you put the subject on the table, you see, today Croatia Airlines and HZ are mentioned. And HRT. You know why he grew up at that point, let's watch fellow Maric, why did he increase the deficit, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia at that time? Because we had to swallow it to send restructuring plans, to approve it, then it was allowed. That is one of the most important and greatest reasons at that time of the deficit increase. This data that I said is real, and unfortunately I think your reigns, Mr. Plenkovic, say the government, will end with maybe two-zams. It's not a trap, it's a trap, and it's a cronism and nepotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92672	Let's move on. Now, MP Stjepan Curaj is working on which question is asked by Minister of Science and Education Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92673	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, respected vice presidents, respected ministers and ministers. So the Honorable Minister Divjak, my question goes, is specifically with one small introduction and it's about what we've had days of hearing here in Parliament when several times several MPs have pointed out that we have educational reform, we have no books, how the books didn't come, other equipment so when we talk about pills, and we generally have the impression that a lot of people don't want to admit to themselves everything that's going on in the field of education, especially when we're talking about this experimental phase. Why? Well, it's very simple because then we would say maybe to ourselves, and that's the hardest thing that we've ever had to do, and this is the kind of salto mortal, and maybe we hurt ourselves the most as strangers, but help society and the state today when we look at it in a year we have... The scholarships we never had, we have a billion kunas for vocational education, we have experimental curricular reform in classrooms, 74 schools, hundreds and hundreds of teachers and 6,000, how many, students. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we got. And we've adopted that record and Istanbul, we've got everything, and maybe it's hard and there's some arguments, and that's why it's misleading the public, so I want you to make it clear here whether the problems that were with the supervisors were solved, related to the experimental phase of curricula reform, as far as delivering textbooks and in general what are the recommendations with the publishers regarding the new law on textbooks, which we know needs to be relieved, that they should be textbooks for the first grade of up to 3 kg and that everything helps with digitization. So please make it clear to the public what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92674	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92675	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking. Appreciated representatives and representatives of colleagues and colleagues. If we want quality education, the student must be at the heart of the educational process. In order for this to be obtained, the teacher must be professional and not only in the subject he teaches, but also in safety and education in the pedagogical psychological methodological sense, which, of course, should be prepared in reform processes. And most importantly, the teacher must be sure of himself, he must be inspiring to his students. We've prepared all this in an experimental program, with 153 days of teaching for teachers. Of course, the question that you ask about textbooks is also important, because the 3 elements in this process, which is important for the quality of education, is certainly teaching material. Of course, we are not only talking about teaching material in terms of a physical textbook but also in teaching material as an interactive on-line digital material that is certainly imperative at this time, that both teachers and students use it and work quality with it in our schools. What should certainly be pointed out is that we have prepared experimental textbooks for the experimental phase of the curricular reform that goes to 74 schools in all Croatian counties and 8500 students participate. Why? Because we are sure that the existing system of authorisation of textbooks, the existing system of putting textbooks of certain catalogues, an existing system that allows the price of textbooks is a great burden on one side of the parent's budget, and on the other hand, the burden on the back of students with unnecessary materials should be changed. So we've already received new textbooks at this experimental stage, which are more digital, which are 30% easier and which certainly satisfy the quality of the new curricula. Of course, since they did it all in a relatively short period, surely we had to agree with the publishers, at their request, twice move the deadlines, in order for them to achieve quality, what was required in the guidelines, we did it. There was a delay in some textbooks for about 2 or 3 days, a week maximum, and in that sense, as I said, since the teacher, who is the most deserved, most important, most called, to organise a quality teaching process, is certainly not a big problem. As far as the new law on textbooks is concerned, it is now in the public debate and there we addressed 4 main problems that I have already mentioned and we have also dealt with in this preparation of experimental curricula reform, which is primarily the quality of material and reviewing, secondly, digitisation and preparation, for one new, modern teaching method, third weight reduction and fourth price to be controlled. What should certainly be emphasized, that we have followed WHO’s recommendation regarding the maximum weight of the student bag, so that students up to 4 grades of elementary school, but wear more than 3kg of mandatory textbooks, we also give the opportunity to digitise, much higher than it is now and certainly bind the price of textbooks to... pay in Croatia and in this way, I am sure that we will manage to relieve both the weight and improve the quality of these materials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92676	Here you go, fellow Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92677	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am pleased to hear that once and for all, we resolve the question, whether the textbooks have arrived at the tables, the children are working on a new program, working with textbooks. And it's clear to me, that generally when we do, so there's a lot of reforms being mentioned here today, but any changes, I'm going to say literally change, there's always resistance and resistance. And that's unequivocal. In any segment of life, people are just used to it in their own comfortable zone that nothing changes, let me go where I am, whatever it is. And of course, no change comes overnight. Some also complain to us that you are too fast, that the reform is not complete, that the reform should be complete, if it says experimentally to be seen in the first year. Is it possible that some of those 20 people out of the hundreds and hundreds who have worked on all the preparatory documents, who are now not, is their condition, to be in these working groups, means completely? Because if you have 400 professors and experts working on curricula and now maybe 20 of them aren't working, that means maybe the reform isn't complete right now. It goes into these changes. I believe there are those words again, quick, and some would like to make everything overnight and that all schools look like I don't know from movies and as what they're actually supposed to be, but it can't be done in a year. And I want both you and the team of independent experts, who took it and we gave the framework, to move on, not to pay too much attention to unconstructive remarks and criticism, because I say a lot of them come from the very ones who point out because they can't look in the mirror and say something that's in the end line good and that someone did a good job. And that's why I'm glad to hear once again that things with books are going better because I think that a lot of times and we've heard that bags are too heavy and this is going to be a good step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92678	Before we move to question 32, just the information, after the current morning is over, we have free debates, some clubs have already checked in, whoever's interested in reporting, then when it's over we'll take a break and continue at 15.00 hours is the first point of the proposal of the Port Captain Act. Here's what I want you to know. So 32 questions MP Slaven Dobrovic asks the Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92679	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister Čorić, you have already been a little over a year to the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection and you have certainly met the European Action Plan of the Circular Economy or the Circular Economy, which aims to abandon the existing dominant linear model of society, take, consume, throw and prepare a new sustainable model in order to close this consumer curve. What are the important goals? Responsible behaviour towards resources, the return of waste raw materials to the economy, the reduction of pollution and ultimately the increase, i.e. employment, the achievement of green jobs. The practical implementation of this goes through a network of satires, composts, reuse centres, recycling yards and ultimately the establishment of a separate collection system. Why are we standing in place? Why didn't you publish public calls to finance that infrastructure? Because we need to know that in our programme, so both the law and the access contract, we set the recycling goals that we are not going to set, without this infrastructure for which you insist on not making public calls, we will not be able to establish public calls, or meet the objectives, so I ask you when it will happen and are you aware of these responsibilities?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92680	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92681	Your Honor, Professor. I'll be a benefactor. First of all, allow me to thank you for asking in the context of waste management exactly me, not my colleague Žalac, what former Zmajlović minister did. So I think the question went the right way. So yes, I am the minister here for a year and three months and I actually believe that given the fact that the waste management plan of the Republic of Croatia was adopted at the beginning of 2017, the most conscious of how and in what way best to know how and how to go towards the establishment of a circular economy, which is what you stand for in each of your performances. Indeed in 2018, at least from the perspective of us from the Ministry of Environment and Energy has been declared as a year of infrastructure and in this context I will refer you to the fact, i.e. here are colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament that during this year we published 5 calls, that at this point, and you know in which situation you left the resort in relation to recycling yards in the realisation of 81 recycling yards in the Republic. That we are also funding educational, or educational activities, that we are in the process of purchasing a container for the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia and that by the end of 2018, we are waiting for another 10 calls within which we will resolve the issue of container, vehicle, or vessel, because you know that there are some islands that have no meaning for vehicles, in the context of the collection, or the transfer of waste to the mainland. Also the issue of sorters, composters and finally our waste management centres, i.e. the rehabilitation of Karepovac, is another one of the calls we intend to make by the end of 2018. So the waste management system, in principle of circular economy, that is, realising the principles of circular economy, is something that takes time. You, you know, yourself during your term of office had one public call, so in the same period of time we are now talking about 5 public calls, by the end of this year there will be 10 more. It is the only possible dynamic that this job, given the capacity, can be done in view of our capabilities. During 2018, i.e. 6 months 2017, 641 million kunas were awarded as part of the call. These are the funds available to the Republic of Croatia in terms of waste management, of those 475 million, so 641 million kuna. Of course, we have a big job to do, but you know for ourselves, first we need to create an infrastructure base to go in the direction, that is, in that direction to meet our 50% targets at the end of 2020, are we going to come to that goal? I hope so. However, this requires the coordination of all elements, i.e. all stakeholders in the process, from units of local self-government through our citizens who are the most important but also the fund for the protection of the environment and energy and the ministry. What I certainly want to point out is that every reference you make to go in this direction I'm experiencing extremely well-intentioned, believe me if I can and say from this pay phone, however, there is dynamics, I will answer your question once again. What awaits us in the coming months will confirm that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92682	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92683	Dear Minister, I must admit that I have the impression that you are still not aware of the seriousness of the situation and the need to move significantly more strongly towards the establishment of that infrastructure, an ecological infrastructure that can only enable those objectives to be achieved. Because if you're surrounded by people who advise you, who have been able to create a situation like we have in the Marines, you can't expect anything better, so the Mariščina, I remind you, and the public is the first CGO, a centre for mixed municipal waste, which was supposed to be a pillar of waste management, and it's not, nor can it be, because there's no sustainability there, because it creates a smell that makes people out there can't live. Finally, it does not help the name of the company that manages it, be careful about the eco plus, nor will it help the name of the clean environment centre in Lečevica. So the only way out is for ministers, I really well-intentioned you are telling you the urgent establishment of the financing of the ecological infrastructure, the introduction of a mandatory storage gap, the introduction of a disposal fee. Finally, it can only encourage those units of local self-government that have so far done little or nothing to establish separate collection and construction of a sustainable waste management system. This way, if you leave yourself to the advisors who are responsible for this situation, I fear that Croatia will not meet the goals you have set for yourself in both the law and the access contract, and that the foams are certainly certain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92684	We are now going to the 33rd issue of Representative Recajmir Varda, asking the question of Health Minister Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92685	... President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Prime Minister, Minister and Minister. [[Specially enabled.]] The question is for the Minister of Health. I have not unfortunately prepared a transparency on how the governments so far have responded to the proposals of strategic projects important to the city of Zagreb and to the state as a whole. But if it was necessary for that transparency, it wouldn't have been easy to get into the Parliament. In 2014 only on the issue of the Immunological Institute, the city of Zagreb also proposed to the government of the SDP that a partner be resolved by the Immunological Institute, there was no answer, neither oral nor written. This government and you yourself have personally accepted this partnership relationship, so we no longer need transparency, at least not in battle with this other side. You've accepted this partnership relationship, you've accepted a joint solution to the Immunological Institute's problem. Unfortunately, 4 years after the city of Zagreb even potentiated the issue. Now I'm curious about what the current situation is with the Immunological Institute, which is the dynamics of the next moves because it was a company that had strategic importance for the state, a company that had its place on the world market, on the world map of manufacturers, health care products. And while I'm at it, there's a new project that I think the government has also accepted a strategic partnership, which is a children's hospital in the mud, so I'd like to ask you an answer about that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92686	Dear Mr. Varda, thank you very much for your enquiries, but allow me, please, President of the Parliament, one of your observations and your concern to express. Is the SDP gone or is the only lunch important to them and they don't care about health care or the economy. And I'm expressing really if it fell on only one man, your back is too weak, so I'm expressing my concern. And with regard to the Immunological Institute and the University Hospital and the Partnership Relations of the Government and the City of Zagreb, I can truly express a great pleasure. You've been keeping a good eye on him. The Immunological Institute sold 25% of the world market in the 1970s. So there is now no brand in the world that makes up 25% of the world market, it was then an Immunological Institute. A series of unfortunate circumstances, passing years, changing governments, changing administrations in Immunologically, there was a terrible collapse where only literally the remains of the remains remained, and this government in partnership with the city of Zagreb went into a project of saving and branding and soybeans and revitalisation of production. It is now the process of recapitalisation and debt management and projects are being done, the commission is also working to start a new production. Another big, tragic project launched in the 1980s, where then living people in Zagreb and Croatia recognize the deficient need of a new university hospital in Zagreb, our daily needs to preserve the Croatian health system and its top quality are being added to the project of self-achieving of the university hospital. Unfortunately, the time of war stopped the project and later the university hospital project was used only for pre-election purposes. And those who were sitting here right now, and now they're gone, they were even ministers, they were boasting that, they were telling stories, and their work obviously comes down to stories, and now again with a set of happy circumstances, thanks to here, I must commend Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mayor Bandic is moving into a project that will no longer be a story. There will be a project where, in Phase A, a national children's hospital will be built in the location of Blato of 50,000 square meters and with only a little luck and a lot of hard work, thanks to Minister Žalac, who maximumly gives his efforts for the application of the EU funds, I believe that construction could begin at the latest by this date next year. And that the National Children's Hospital at Blato site as a joint project of this government and this city would be the pride of the Croatian nation and Croatian state and guarantee to Croatian children that they will have a suitable hospital for four years at the latest as necessary for any children of the world and especially for our Croatian children who are unfortunately less and less. And on this trail at the same time we are working on an idea project and we are preparing for international competitions for the implementation project and for funds so that somewhere in the 5-7 years, a university hospital will be built there and where the hospitals would be moved, primarily Vinogradska as the bearer of human resources, and other hospitals such as Draskovic, such as Klaiceva, who is moving this and some other hospitals not to bother you now. And this time again I thank Mayor Bandic and above all the Prime Minister Plenkovic, which will be made proud of this nation and this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92687	Thank you. Before my colleague Varda, he just needed a colleague, Lenart, to hurt his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92688	Here's the Honorable Minister, I'd like to enlighten you a little bit, but I don't think it's your job to call in representatives whether or not you're sitting or not, there's a president of the Parliament who's dealing with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92689	Well, there was a mistake by the minister, so he had a colleague, Lenart, right to react. It's not easy being a member of the SDP. Here you go, colleague Vardo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92690	Dear Ministers, I thank you for your reply, thank you for the Government, if I am free to say on behalf of the City of Zagreb and the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, who gives these initiatives, that this strategic partnership and I think that only by acting and not by transparency we can achieve results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92691	It is now up to representative Boris Miletic, who is asking his question to Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92692	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, my question concerns Uljanik Grupa, I want very clearly, unequivocally pointed out, that the interest of citizens of the regional and local self-government in both the Primorian and Istrian County, the city of Rijeka, the city of Pula in preserving shipbuilding as industrial activities, very precisely. He would present several facts, of all Croatian shipyards, but absolutely all, the only oil shipbuilding site, has never been renovated by state money. Another fact that we could see from the presentation of the Adriatic ship, that in the past 5 years of the total ship produced in Croatia, half of all manufactured ships have just been built in the Uljannik Group. The third irrefutable fact is that the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the state, has slightly more than 25% of the shares in the Oil Group, so the fact is that the state is the largest individual owner in the shipyard. It is equally a fact that this government has made it possible for its decisions to function and pay their salaries and thank you for that. What bothers workers who do and what concerns citizens are two questions, first whether workers who work will get their salary in September and second question, what is the future of Croatian shipbuilding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92693	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92694	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Miletic, first of all, I thank you again on behalf of the entire government for the hospitality of last week when we held a meeting of the Government in Pula and you and the mayor of Flega or not only in Pula, but also in Pazin, and at the Uljannik Shipyard and the Archaeological Museum of Istria that is being restored and later in Umag with our fishermen, so one whole approach and a strong message from the Government of the Republic of Istria and all our people in Istria. Together we prepared this government session of the Istrian Ipsilon billions and two hundred fifty million worth of project, numerous other projects, and on your initiative, Muzil and Sacordjan and Hidrobaza. Not to mention the other 20 points of the government by solving here, thanks to Minister Maric and other members and members of the government. A number of issues related to real estate, unused, this time transferring responsibility to local and regional self-government, we sent a strong message of decentralisation, what you stand for as a party for many years. And I think that was good and positive. We went to Uljanik with you and the mayor and with the president of the administration and with the unions and with the workers. Now I have heard you for the first time this articulated if you had said thank you to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it would have been good if it had been said in the cabinet session itself so articulately, at least what I was saying in answer to one of the previous questions. All Croatian shipyards are equally important to this Croatian government. The oil was one of the few shipyards that were not in difficulty, holding hands on the 3rd of May ahead of Croatia's EU membership. It took part in the restructuring of the Rijeka shipyard. We all understand both the economic and political and sociological and the identity of Ulnik and what 3. May means both Pula and Rijeka. I understand that very well. You don't have to have any dilemmas. And when you ask what you want from the future of Croatian shipbuilding, so the whole restructuring went for it, not to be as before, that 31.5 billion kn, our taxpayers went as state support to shipyards since '92-2017. It's enormous money. There are other branches, other industries, other counties, other priorities, people watching what we're doing. And we are not only at the moment when management approached us at the end of last year, we made a decision on the state guarantee, of 716 million kuna, after I received the information that there are certain insurance and deposits in accounts, some of the Banks that the Oilman manages to release with the guarantee and those funds for pay and for July and August, now in the situation, to repeat very clearly, as we have said, openly to both the workers and the management and the unions, in front of three possible solutions. One is some form of insolvency procedure, and I have to say it publicly and openly, it's one of the options. The second is to modify and improve the restructuring plan because the commission, I believe, is that you know that the Uljannik has been given by the Ministry of Economy of the European Commission's objection to that restructuring plan almost identical to what we suggested by the finance and by the Ministry of Economy, are identical objections. And the third option is whether, therefore, the second plan is the restructuring plan with the current strategic partner and the third possibly some new strategic partner. It's three scenarios, we're working on it, experts, Commissioner... Every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we will fight for the survival of shipbuilding and for the wages of workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92695	Thank you, Prime Minister. Let's go to question 35. Excuse me, excuse me. Here you go, pal Miletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92696	So unfortunately I didn't get an answer to the question, that's what worries the workers, what worries their families, and that's the topic of just working and paying the wages for the work done. So I'll repeat, Uljanik is the only shipbuilding site in Croatia that has never been rescheduled by state money. And on May 3rd, Lenac and Brodotrogir and Brodosplit, they were all rescheduled with state money. So we're not looking for any special treatment, nothing different than other companies in Croatia. Not to mention Petrochemy, Badell or Agrokor. So for us, the issue of shipbuilding, the question of industry, the issue of production, exports of the greatest importance. The other important thing is the same question of uncertainty. That's what the workers tell me. What about us tomorrow? You can't escape the fact that the state owns a quarter of the shares. So the largest individual owner. You expect responsibility and determination, determination to make decisions in order to preserve that industry, and you know, as I know, that the salary for July could have been paid in time, that it should not have gone on strike, that it should not have contributed to losses because these funds were in the form of deposits and were then in that bank. So determination and responsibility. This is what the Croatian government is asked to do when we talk about Croatian shipbuilding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92697	We are now going to the 35th issue of Representative Dragica Roscic's question asks Minister of Tourism Gary Cappelli, since he has no question the Prime Minister will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92698	Thank you, Mr. President. Since I come from the areas that are most important and in this week, my municipality has achieved a million nights, just as it did in September last year. Under the seasons, as I see the hosts tell us that guests are spending more and more, but some inscriptions appear because the number of tourists is smaller, we also note the large growth of private accommodation of the tenants and here in the Parliament we have seen only in a small period since the amendment and addition of the law on catering activity until the debate itself increased the number of private tenants by 20%, over 20,000. So I'm interested in putting out concrete figures on the number of overnight stays, the number of tourist arrivals, how does this affect the consumption and revenues of tourism, and to give us the measures and activities of this government relating to private renters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92699	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92700	Thank you very much, Mr. Roscic, for this question. I will just try to put on basic accents because Minister Cappelli is not present today, he is at a meeting of initiative 16+1, so China and the state of Central Eastern Europe, a meeting of tourism ministers that takes place in Dubrovnik these days, and in light of the fact that over the next year we will host Summit China + 16, so one belt, one road initiative that opens up huge areas of cooperation, primarily economic character with China. As far as this tourist season is concerned, I have already said today that this entire year's tourist activity according to data, to this day, we are recording more than 17 million arrivals and almost 98 million overnight stays. That means by the end of this year, the calendar year, we'll certainly have better results than last year. Now it's 5% more overnight, 3.61% more arrivals. That means the results that are recordable this year are better than the last year's best in history. The future side of 12 billion euros, 12 billion euros are expected. We are according to the financial times of the 7th best destination in the world for investment in tourism. In 2017 we had 800m euros in investment. This year, 940m euros in investment in Croatian tourism. An enormous increase in capacity in private accommodation, therefore, is the impression that we are as full as we used to be. Maybe we're not because we have a lot of new capacities and these are facts. On the other hand, in last season for the first time in the days of Croatian tourism in Losinj, this year it will be in Hvar when the government will hold a session dedicated to the very tourist season dedicated to the development of the island, talking about the sustainability of Croatian tourism and the model we now have. Because that's the key, the key is to increase the service, increase the quality, capacity, quality hotel facilities that are then followed by private accommodation, which is accompanied by camps, which are accompanied by nautical tourism. There is also an important role in all of this in the fact that Croatia is an airline destination. Our airports, in which much has been invested over the past years, on their modernisation, Split airport, Dubrovnik airport, a brand-new airport in Zagreb, have practically recorded a two-digit increase in passenger traffic. By our wise decisions and policy towards neighbouring countries, we managed not to have a hard Schengen for those passengers arriving in the Republic of Croatia who, former ministers, are how many? 70 percent about. 70% of people come in their own car. If we had systematic controls at the border with Hungary and Slovenia, we would have had a strong Schengen last year, we responded immediately and agreed that from the systematic crossing to civil and this problem did not affect the quality of the season, tourist revenues and numbers. That is why we will encourage here and the achievements and in Baška Voda where you come from to continue to think strategically how that 20% of the GDP that comes from tourism still has sustainable growth, but without illusions that this growth can go on forever at this pace. We need to be realistic in the years ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92701	Comrade Roščić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92702	... by talking, we can only conclude that private renters and everyone who deals with tourism can be invited to work on quality and to go in that direction. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92703	Thank you. We have three more questions. The first is a respected colleague, Marijana Balic, who asks her question to the regional development minister and EU funds, Gabrieli Zalac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92704	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected vice-presidents and presidents, ministers and ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to refer my question to the Minister of Regional Development and to the Eu funds Mrs. Gabrieli Žalac. The European Commission published its first draft legislative package for cohesion policy in May after 2020. According to the proposal 2021-2027, the Republic of Croatia was allocated 9.89 billion euros, representing an increase of 8.6% in current prices compared to the current financing period 2014-2020. My question is whether the Republic of Croatia can be satisfied with the current new redistribution of funds, and for which projects will be targeted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92705	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92706	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representatives Balic, what is important to highlight and the proposal for a multi-annual financial framework that came out on May 2nd this year, I must say that, at the intensity of the support, actually by the allocations, when these prices are recalculated and inflation is included and everything that can affect that price, the Republic of Croatia received 9.9 billion euros in the proposal, which reflects 5.6% less funds compared to this financial period. However, it is important to say that this is the Commission's proposal, above all, which will be under way and which is already being worked intensively since May. At the government level, we also established a working group for the multiannual financial framework in the cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Vice-President Pejcinović-Burić and Minister of Finance of fellow Marić and our Ministry. They're working intensively on it. When we talk about this reduction of 5.6% for cohesion policy, of course we're not satisfied. However, in view of what has been announced because of Brexit, the security situation in Europe, migration and everything else compared to the announcements from the reduction, so 25 percent even for cohesion policy, I have to say that we are kind of satisfied with this proposal because we find ourselves in the draft budget and 25 billion euros for all Member States for structural reforms, so we will make up for that part. When comparing ourselves with countries in the environment, especially in the format V-4 plus 4 countries, which is Poland, the Czech Republic, so Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania, then I must admit that in some ways we did well because these are countries of cohesion, as we call them. We just had talks at a conference called cohesion friends held every year in one of the member states, which was now in Hungary. The next will be in May next year in the Republic of Croatia and we discussed with the Commissioner for Budget what it all looks like. Now that we look at everything that the Commission has proposed, we are not satisfied and we have made it clear in our views, and this is not only a reduction of 5.6% for cohesion policy at the expense of less resources in the budget due to Brexit and the security situation in Europe, as well as migrations that are of course inevitable. We think that the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy should remain the main pillars of funding, especially us as the youngest member states. When we talk about what kind of co-financing is proposed, which is an increase from 15% to 30% of our projects, it is absolutely unacceptable to us, and also to the part relating to the reduction of funds for pre-financing of projects. So in this context, there will certainly be a major debate, especially among countries that use most of the cohesion funds. The Republic of Croatia belongs here on the top of the ladder. 80% of public investment in the Republic of Croatia is currently being financed from European funds, especially from EU cohesion policy. Speaking of the next period, we as Government have already begun preparing the national development strategy of the Republic of 2030. Defined development goals, priorities, we will, of course, discuss this in both the final and the representative body, but of course we are already thinking about projects that will be funded in the next period and where we will put emphasis on large strategic projects that we will also define together with representatives of the World Bank and experts who take care of the creation of value chains primarily in the economy and innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92707	Comrade Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92708	Thank you very much. I thank you for the answer I am pleased with and also appreciate and welcome your efforts so far made in the negotiation process, and I am convinced that you will continue to defend Croatia's views equally firmly in the next negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92709	Thank you, too. The 37th question, MP Nikola Grmoy is asking the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92710	Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Plenkovic, I could ask you a lot of questions. For example, about your obstruction of the Parliament's thematic session on the inaction of institutions on war crimes in Vukovar, on the non-implementation of public administration reforms, in health care. I could ask you about your Minister Kujundzic, I could ask you about how you obstruct the referendum on changes to the electoral system. But I'm going to focus on concrete evidence that suggests that as a personal prime minister, you're keeping your mouth shut. In December of last and January of this year, a Croatian diplomat presented two performances of evidence of several years of illegal payments of Croatian taxpayers' money in Croatian embassies in Washington and Canberra, which he previously informed the foreign minister sitting next to you about. And to make it worse, the state audit last year published a report on the ministry and found that Mr. Josko Paro has abused the position of ambassadors in Washington for years, violated the interior order of the ministry and damaged the state budget of the Republic of Croatia by a million and 900 thousand kuna. There are also documents available on the Internet that indicate that Mrs. Loretta Bertosha's secretary-general, Kushen, has been paid for years on the basis of a fake schedule at the Canberra embassy, where her husband was an MP even though the regulations of the Ministry said it was forbidden to assign members of the rope family of ambassadors to functions in the embassies which these embassies manage. Prime Minister Plenkovic, Law on civil servants has been established the personal obligation of the Minister to initiate the procedure. [[/Intruder President: Thank you. Please ask a question.]] Why didn't you solve the minister because she didn't do anything about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92711	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92712	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Here, since this is the last question addressed to me, the truly Zucker Komt Zuletzt, the esteemed representative of the Grmoya. Well, of all the questions, you found this. Well, I don't know which is the current PR agency that's following MOST so stingy and weakly and poorly the question deserves to maybe reduce their abbey monthly. As far as this question is concerned, it is up to those bodies that are independent, which should be dealt with. If there's a report, as far as I can tell, it all happened at the time of some former ministers and some former governments, let it all be checked out. However, as far as she's concerned, as far as she's concerned, I've now asked her, everything this ministry is, so that she's now leading as responsible should have given as data she gave. A minister's replacement for that kind of thing, not that it's out of the question, but it wouldn't be normal at all. I don't know what kind of world you live in so you can play it so easy to change and such one approach to large elaborate performances that come between you and the other. I've been a little longer than you, the esteemed representative of the bush in the system, and I've seen such and similar notions that don't lead to anything in the end. But it's a much bigger question for me than you mentioned just in the introduction and I have to look back on, to your colleague and representative Bulja, who I love often, which by my systolics, which by the sympathies of the climate from which we both come to share more or less. But that you, Representative Bulj, are able today at the beginning of a new session of the Croatian Assembly to twist facts, manipulate, tell the truth and do something that...... President, Prime Minister, hold on a second, hold on. ...you're not, yes, yes, okay, I refer, I refer to what the bush said. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92713	A fellow Bull. You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, haven't you? At the beginning of the session today, you were talking and I was telling you to stop. You spoke for a minute, without rights. Now, please let the Prime Minister finish, and then you'll say what's the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't interrupt either, you said. ... You'll say that in your injury to the Rules of Procedure if you think you should. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92714	You mentioned the subject, you mentioned the subject. ... Come on, I'm glad you're not interested. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's what the public needs to hear, now, because he told Mr. Bolly that he wasn't interested in Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92715	Please, Mr. Prime Minister, please answer the question he asked. ... Please answer the question asked by a colleague of the Grmoi. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92716	I refer to the opening part of the presentation of two-minute representative Grmoy, which he places, or alluds to what he was saying at the beginning of the assembly session, representative Bulj. Representative Bulj accuses me as Prime Minister of doing what? I am determining the Croatian Assembly on what will be the subject. On the basis of which statements did you conclude? Do you have a smart phone, do you have television, have any sources that well, if you listen to them, you can hear what I said yesterday. It is the Croatian Parliament's decision and only the Croatian Parliament to decide which topics will be settled. And my opinion is that the topic in which the Parliament would discuss the political position of any of the peoples of elected representatives is impossible, impossible. That's true, Mr. Bull, not what you're trying to place today. No, no, no, I'm sick of your manipulations. That's out of the question. It's not any anxiety these are facts, manipulations no. And is it out of the question that you get on that way on the train of those who want to do what? Destabilize Croatian defenders? You'll raise a national feeling unlike a government that isn't there. Is that what you want? No, you won't. You don't want me or HDZ or any normal good intentions. And what you would like to see in the Croatian Parliament is being reconsidered and the opinions of the representatives, so I think at the worst stages of communism there was no Mr. Bulj. At the worst stages of communism there was no such thing. And certainly they will not be in modern democratic Croatia. That's a principle question. Pedagogical character this answer to Mr. Bulj with a contribution to the opening part of Mr. Grumoja's question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92717	Thank you. Time's up. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92718	Injury. 33rd President, you need to be in charge of protecting the rights of counsel. This is where the Prime Minister answered me, the question of Mr. Grumoja and the fact is that he himself said and asked for a break, and he was supposed to react to the President, you, the President of the Parliament, that the transfer yesterday usurped, announced the usurpation of the power of the Croatian Parliament. And he did it, and now he's hurt his Rules of Procedure, you can't possibly read yourself, Mr. Jandrokovic. [[Intruder President: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92719	Buddy Bull, look, 12, 13, 14 seconds. Comrade Bull, come on, I'll tell you what I have to say now. [[Intruding Bulj: The diameter came in its statement yesterday, as he was a legal expert in diplomats from Brussels came here and called.]] Comrade Bulj, it's past time I'm sorry, you are persistently violating the Rules of Procedure, I will now say what I think of the Prime Minister. ... I'll make myself clear, yeah, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now you'll hear very well. Comrade Bull, you're getting a second warning, you can't speak today, so because it's been a minute since the time you've had... Okay, now I'll say the following, please sit down, now I'll say what I have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A fellow Bull. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, buddy Bull. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bulj, you are disfellowshipped today from the debate all day long, you have been disfellowshipped from the debate, because you are in violation of the purpose of the Rules of Procedure, you do not respect,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now I'll tell Mr. Plenkovic what to do, go ahead. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My friend Bulj... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bull, I beg you to sit down now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] First of all, as regards the address of your colleague Bulj, this Prime Minister was not right, and indeed at the time when he corresponds to the representative, he cannot address the third representative. So in that part, there was what wasn't supposed to be, and that's true. Second, you broke the Rules of Procedure in the morning, and now you've gone beyond what you've done. You could have ended up in 30 seconds and in 40 seconds, and I would have said the same thing. I'd say the same thing, but please, there's some order here, we can't talk here at all, if we're going to break that order, because as you're acting, we can treat the other 150 MPs and then we have chaos and that chaos I won't allow. As far as your judgments go, whether someone is insulting or not, it's up to me. So I didn't warn any MPs, and in the direction of the Prime Minister, there's been a lot of harsh words, insults, untruths, etc. So I didn't react to anyone. Well, then don't expect me to react when you or your fellow bridgers respond. So if you want to play hard men, play, and don't cry... But don't cry when you're crying too. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're so primitive, I don't want to talk to you anymore. [[/Intruder Bull doesn't understand.]] Come on, goodbye. [[I'm proud of you, and everything else can be.]] Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92720	I'm glad that we were able to upset the diameter like this, he's talking about our PR agency, but I can see that he's very upset, so we got a good guess, and apparently I surprised him with the question, when there's no answer, he came here with a book, but he didn't get ready for this surprise, which compromised him deeply. Dear Prime Minister, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Art. 96. The law on civil servants reads, quotes "Punity responsibility, does not exclude responsibility for violations of official duty." The minister is, regardless of any criminal procedure that may have been conducted in this case, to react and suspend those officials. Not reward them. Mr. Paro, I see her rewarded. Mrs. Bertosha has been rewarded. You rewarded them. So according to the Constitution, we are all equal before the law, and even your longtime acquaintances from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Even they're crossing Plenkovic, and your lawless banalization is in line with yours they can do what I want, but it won't be long. That won't be long. On Friday at 10 pm here in the Croatian Parliament building, I will hold press conferences in the participation of a man who has been trying for months to warn Croatian institutions and who has tried to help you too personally, Mr Prevere, but you have not heard of it. And the Croatian public, when all of this evidence is presented, will be able to have an opportunity to assess the credibility of your words, quote, your entire career and social engagement based on honesty, honesty and incompetence. We'll see if that's the case. So here you are protecting or drying crime at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and your minister has not responded anything and you have been warned, and the President of the Parliament has also been warned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92721	But the competent institutions are DORH and the court. So they decide whether something happened or not. Okay, okay. Now let's go to the last question. Representative Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, the question is raised by Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign and European Affairs Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92722	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Honorable Prime Minister, I warmly welcome you all and welcome your responsible approach to all the problems and issues you are dealing with, on the one hand we have the results of this government, and on the other hand we have stories. I also welcome your responsible behaviour during this current morning where you are patiently sitting and listening to all this which is not the case in some other European Parliaments. Unlike this side that held their stage performance and left the assembly. My question was addressed to the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mrs. Pejcinović Buric, and in one of the previous responses of the respected prime minister, we heard that one huge potential for the Republic of Croatia is opening up regarding new geopolitical relations and the new geostrategic position of world players, on the one hand the United States and China and on the other. Therefore, it would be good for the public to also learn something about the responsible work and the thoughtful foreign policy of this government and to clarify the importance of this summit of China plus 16 which it actually means for the Republic of Croatia and how additional investment space is opened and for all that we may not have had the opportunity so far to really hear what the public has not had the opportunity to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92723	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92724	Thank you very much and thank you for this question that I think is very important. In response to one of the previous questions, the Prime Minister has already mentioned the issue of the meaning of China plus 16, which will be held next year in Zagreb, and that we are going in the right direction and that these relations with China as a major global economic and political player are played during this government, especially carefully and we agree this whole mosaic of our foreign-political relations in one whole which will in the best way help Croatia in all its constituents. So with China plus 16 which is one part of the initiative one belt, one path we have also participated in during this government, so one of the biggest global initiatives of this species that has even existed in recent years. Croatia recognized itself, in time it got involved and in fact this summit coming next year is quite logical to continue our efforts just to build stronger relations with China because I don't think we should explain much in terms of numbers. Any economic, economic relationship with China can result only in good figures given the size of the market and the importance it can have for the Croatian economy. So in the China plus 16 section, we opted to work on tourism, as has already been said, on infrastructure and on strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. So, these are three big topics within which there will be an opportunity next year for a meeting that will be a par-excellance meeting that has not yet been held in Croatia, so hundreds of people from the political and economic sectors, it will be an opportunity to also meet Croatian businessmen from other parts, so the state of 15 other Central and Eastern European countries, but of course primarily with China, and to sign agreements with either resort institutions or economic agreements, but also to raise our relationship to a higher level in the political sphere. So, always the host had a chance to meet with the Prime Minister of China. I think it's clear to all those who have any knowledge of external relations what it means to be Prime Minister of China in the Republic of Croatia. So it will be a major event for the Republic of Croatia and will certainly not only position us better in relations with a great player such as the People's Republic of China, but will also open up really numerous opportunities in all areas. We think so much that it is extremely important to prepare well for this big, big event that will happen and in fact this is a good opportunity and thank you for making public awareness of the fact that this is going to happen next year and that we are actually well prepared for all of what we want to do with China. I'd say, of course, we're interested in investment. They already exist in the Republic of Croatia, I think colleagues from Zadar County know very well. There's an interest in Chinese and others, but I don't think we should ignore and our companies work in China. For those who do not know, the Croatian firm, a Croatian architectural one office works as one of the best and currently the most prestigious 7-star hotels in China. So they got a job on the world market and just that big market that's interesting. So it's not one way, so it's not a one-way trip, it's certainly a great opportunity for the economy, but also for us as a policy, and for foreign policy, to be well positioned and to strengthen our interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92725	Thank you. Dear Representative Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92726	Thank you, dear Vice President, for explaining the importance of this summit to us. On the one hand, we have a responsible approach to the problems and issues of this government and of all ministers. On the other hand, we have a lot of room for manipulation, so it is very important that our citizens hear all the problems we are dealing with and how many, in fact, responsible and demanding challenges are facing our ministers and this government. This government takes care of a whole series of problems and is dealing with them, from the protection of national interests that we see through the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence and others, to the introduction of certain newspapers into the Ministry of Agriculture, to education, to culture, etc. I am saddened that the current morning ends in a way that gives the most space to those representatives who have manipulated, and less space is given to objective facts and results of this government. I hope this changes soon and we get a more objective picture of this government's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92727	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are hereby completed in the morning. I thank the Prime Minister and the Ministers [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here we are in front of us in the first reading of the proposal for a Law on Port Captains and it is part of the overall reform of maritime legislation that this Government has launched through the amendments to three key laws on maritime affairs. The Law on port captains at the 112st meeting of the Government on 30.8th of this year passed a law amending and supplementing the maritime code, and soon we are expected to be referred to in the procedure of adoption and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which is at the final stage of production. Through these three above... to enable the rise of competitiveness, the maritime economy, raising the level of sea safety and safety, digitising all maritime services in the next 3 years, reducing administrative burdens for citizens and economic operators, completing the social reform for seamen and ensuring effective management of maritime goods. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The system of port captains in the area of the Republic of Croatia has existed continuously since Austria's famous national maritime declaration of 1774, while the corresponding coordinating body or bodies of the Port Captains has existed since 1850, so we can say that this bill maintains 244 years of tradition of the administrative system of port captains as the backbone of the authorities in the sea and in the sea. Since then, port captains have been established in different ways, so until 1997, the system of port captains has uniquely included sea captains and captains of internal navigation as district units of the competent ministry with related organisational structure and jobs. The Law on port captains, which has been in force since 28 November 1997, has regulated questions about the structure and work of port captains at sea, and the Law on Inland Water Navigation and Inland Water Ports, has regulated questions on the structure and operation of port captains of internal navigation. There are currently 8 port captains at sea, 4 in the interior waters, 72 in port captains, national centre for the coordination of the search and rescue at sea in Rijeka, national control and maritime traffic control centre also in Rijeka and 2 in the Split and Dubrovnik VTS center with a total of 367 civil servants and 8 tenants. Based on a whole series of laws, the competences of port captains are entered by various operational, professional and inspection and administrative affairs, of which it is certainly necessary to highlight this through the number of jobs carried out during 2017: The Port Captains received 1352 reports of maritime accidents and accidents of all maritime facilities. The largest number in 1278 was related to boats and yachts. Due to these accidents, 454 offshore search and rescue operations have been organised, with 765 persons and 254 water facilities being saved. Inspectors and authorised officers of port captains carried out 10 000 inspections in 2017 related to the safety of navigation and surveillance of maritime goods, charging 3 and a half million kuna fines for established offences. In the most significant administrative affairs of port captains, there is certainly a number of 40,000 certificates to seamen and shipmen, 20 000 assurances about the training of boat and boatmasters, 3000 maritime and shipbooks, and 75 000 registrations of seafarers and boaters, as well as the resolution of about 65 000 different requirements, including enrolment, re-signing, clearance of ownership checks and others which relate to the conduct of appropriate registers and eyewitnesses of water facilities. The port captains are also responsible for registering the arrival and stay of foreign yachts and boats that average annual about 60,000 visits to our country, as well as for monitoring the performance of charter activities. When all requests by citizens and economic operators of the port captain and other navigation security services are summed up, an average of about 1 million and 240 000 different requests of the parties shall be accepted annually. It is important to point out that at this point, about 77% of it is resolved by electronic means. In addition to this range of complexity and the importance of the tasks given to port captains, it has become clear that the existing legislative framework is no longer adequate, so this new Port Captains Act has been prepared to first raise the level of sea safety and protection against pollution, secondly provide more efficient services to citizens and economic operators, thirdly to enable more efficient work of inspection services and fourthly to make it easier for seamen and ships to be employed on land after the termination of the navigation service. This law will improve the work of port captains which is extremely important from the aspect of the safety of navigation, search and rescue of human lives at sea and intervention in sudden pollution of the sea. This bill regulates the territorial structure and organisation of the work of port captains, more clearly defines the safety of navigation and surveillance of maritime goods and how they are organised. The rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and subsistence officers in the performance of these tasks, their working-legal position, inspection powers and the provision of simpler employment of seamen and shipmen on land after the termination of the navigation service and other issues important for the operation of port captains and for the performance of operations from their work. In order to achieve all these objectives, a new system of work organisation and working time is introduced, which should ensure more efficient and economical work of the whole service. The port captains' offices are categorized, where first-class facilities, together with port captains, will be the bearers of search and rescue operations so that the entire service will be able to react to any point of internal seawater and territorial sea within the target period of so-called. The golden watch. By establishing the obligation to establish a special organisation of work and working time to carry out the work of keeping registers of ships in the international navigation of the testimony of sailors and shipmen on Croatian flag ships. International navigation will ensure a faster and more efficient provision of these public services. In order to ensure more effective inspection and to prevent all illegal activities, inspection powers are strengthened and more precisely defined. Although the adoption of this law does not give rise to costs for which additional resources should be provided in the state budget, nor do these laws prescribe certain new rights within the system of state administration, the identification of this Government is to build a modern and efficient sea safety service against pollution, it will be visible through the proposal for a State budget for 2019, which is in the final phase of production. Within the financial limits set out by the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure for the purpose of performing the operations of port captains, additional resources are proposed to cover the costs, implement inspection solutions for the removal of illegal anchors and pontons, purchase of emergency intervention equipment in cases of ship pollution, continuation of the fleet recovery programme through the purchase of new vessels and additional equipment of existing ships and ships, as well as to continue investment in the digitisation of all business processes and the establishment of new and public electronic services. So this law creates a new organisational framework as a basis for more efficient operation of port captains and other navigation security services. Therefore, this new Law on port captains, together with amendments to the Maritime Code and the adoption of a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, will contribute to the achievement of the set reform objectives of this Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92730	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92731	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers in your presentation regarding the law at the place of exposure you referred to the inspection or inspection service. So my question concerns, or I have two questions. The first question you probably don't know the exact number but somehow indicative of how many inspectors you have, or how many of them you have within the Ministry. And the second question is, since there is an Inspectorate Act in the public debate, will these inspectors ultimately remain in the control of your ministry or will these inspectors go to a large inspectorate that will be at the state level? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92732	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92733	Thank you very much. The answer to your first question is, a total of 25 inspectors are authorized, of which five are for maritime good. And secondly, all inspection services remain in the draft law of the Ministry's intelligence, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92734	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92735	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Butkovic, the fact is, I didn't hear it at first, but this law, which is already in force, is almost 21 years old, and it certainly needed to be changed and, above all, that we have entered the EU, so that certain activities and jobs have been addressed to the Port Captains. Port Captains as a traditional, historical organization in the Republic of Croatia and I am glad that there is an improvement in things related to the adoption of this law. I always have that picture, you know... The port captain's office Split, especially when it comes to the season, i.e. when certain weather accidents are involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm glad this law actually brings about a large, large number of changes. All I'm asking is, is this law about the register of ships in this international voyage, the issuing of certificates, will this law, this, by passing this law, improve this? Issuing of certificates and registers for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92736	Thank you. The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92737	This issue is regulated by the amendments, i.e. by the Maritime Code. But in this law is a structure and the organisation of work is defined and the way we do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92738	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will be spoken by respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92739	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. ... The representatives of the HDZ support the adoption of this Law on Port Captains, as delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with an additional explanation of the respected minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As the Prime Minister said earlier, this Law on Port Captains is part of a package already announced by the minister, a package of reform of maritime legislation covering this Law on port captains, then amendments to the Maritime Code that have already come into the agenda of the Croatian Parliament and the announced new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. Certainly, the Law on port captains is in force in 19 years, the Law on the Sea is in force for 15 years, with certain amendments and the Maritime Code of 2004 when it was adopted, has suffered several amendments, primarily in order to bring our maritime legislation into line with the legal acquis of the EU in the process of Croatia's accession to full membership in the EU and because of certain specificities which we wanted to make Croatian flag, the Croatian maritime administration competitive on the world market, which I think in great part of the amendments to the Maritime Code, and in the first order of our shipmen. When we talk about the Law on Port Captains, then we should say that what the Minister also said in his opening presentation, it is that the law was passed in 1997 but the organisation of navigation control, the safety of maritime goods is already in Croatia, as already mentioned, established through state bodies, the state service of more than 244 years, which points to the tradition of Croatia as a maritime state, because few states in the world can be praised for such continuity of the operation, monitoring of safety, sailing at sea as Croatia can, not to say that the 18th century is practically marked by the construction of all major facilities of safety of navigation, all almost or very large majority of lighthouses that have practically enabled safer navigation in the Adriatic Sea and contributed to a full number of maritime tragedies and accidents in relation to the situation that would not have been accessible to both of the construction. When the law was passed in 1997, he made a clear distinction between sea or port captains' captains' offices at sea and later by the Inland water navigation law and the Law on navigation and the ports of inland water, defined that there are also, and were defined captains in river ports whose seats were therefore on the largest Croatian ports, in Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak. In my view, this is a better solution, so when we talk about port captains, then all the captains are defined their actions, their partial work, to be defined by one law which is the case here, so we go back to this original system where when we talk about port captains, we mean 8 port captains, from Rijeka, Senj, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploč, Dubrovnik and we mean 4 captains, port captains on rivers, these are Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonic and Sisak. And clearly what's no less important, this spread, the display of port captains in such a way that along our Adriatic there are 71 outposts and plus one outpost on the inner waters. What's good and I welcome, which is to finally define the jurisdiction of a certain port captain. Today, we have no borders or units of local self-government or defined borders of units of regional or regional self-government, which is a county at sea, and often this situation can lead to certain problems in the functioning of both local and regional self-government units in the first order when we talk about concessioning maritime goods, so I welcome the fact that we now prescribe the jurisdiction of a particular port captainship by this law. When we talk about it, then here, the game of the Ministry has just dropped into the space of port captain of Dubrovnik, my municipality, and here I would ask that until the next reading in the jurisdiction of port captain Dubrovnik, define the maritime well-being so that the sea that belongs to the inner seawaters that are in the Blato municipality system, that is one small slip, but that the law would be entirely accurate then, precise to write down all units of local self-government that are at sea, then here he would ask that until the second reading and that situation be defined. Few people know what a port captain's job is and the port captain's office is too important for the operation of maritime transport, for concessioning maritime goods, for monitoring the safety of maritime transport, for maintaining order on marine good. Without the port captainship, the tourist seasons wouldn't be the way they are, without the port captain's engagement. Not to say what a port captain means to a seaman's life. I read somewhere that last year there were 75,000 I think, applications... when they go sailing on ships under a foreign flag. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have changed the Maritime Code, defined the new role of captains when we have said that they have practically taken over part of the jobs for other workers, other employees in Croatia for the pension system, the Employment Service system, it is practically at sea for sailors port captains and thus is a huge role of port captains not only for those 15,000 sailors who are in international navigation but also for 5 or 6000 sailors who sail on ships under the national flag and who are in national navigation. So for these 20, one or two, three although I don't know the exact number of sailors, I don't know, honestly, we sometimes talk about 30,000 Croatian sailors but for their lives, for their work port captainia is the basic institution that allows them to... that they have all the maritime books, etc., etc. So it's a very important role of port captainship but I hear in public and perhaps among fellow MPs, many of them send me two institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the one hand, the port captainate, which is the area of the Ministry's organisation, whose management is that security is the executive competent authority in which the port captainate, on the other hand, of the port administration, owned by the Republic of Croatia, was owned by the counties, but managed by a specific area, which was assigned by the Government to them by a decision on the establishment of the port area. And there's a lot of times that one, that one misunderstanding, of business, of obligation, of activity, of authority, of either side of the port administration, or of the port captainship. So, by this law now that we define the area of port captainship, we don't define the area of port administration. We are not saying that the port administration is losing its jurisdiction over a certain area, if we change the jurisdiction of port captainship, so it may happen that a certain port administration has a space in one county, but supervision of maintaining that and monitoring the order in that port area of the port administration, which is coming, the port captainate that comes from another county. Thus, such examples will be, especially where jurisdiction is intertwined, on the one hand, the sea captainship, and on the other hand the port administration, which is on the ports of internal navigation, i.e. on the inland waterways, i.e. on rivers. What I wanted to especially single out, which is what is important in the process of entering the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership, has been done by port captains. It is probably from the navigation security administration, it is probably a small number of our citizens known, but also one of the assumptions of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into full EU membership. There was an arrangement of the Croatian maritime administration on the one hand, the harmonisation of our maritime legislation with the acquis of the EU, in the maritime part, but on the third hand, was one very specific commitment to the Croatian maritime administration, but also to Croatian shipowners, which is that the Croatian flag, which you in Croatian ships, owned by Croatian shipowners, was either for years or, or was excluded not only by those maritime administrations and strong maritime states, whose shipmen had been arranged and whose sailors had completed from a certain school and had the conditions to meet the demanding criteria, so-called. the Paris Memorandum, which made all the maritime states of the world and the dependence on the quality of ships, the quality of the seamen, and the countries were set from white to black flags. When we entered the negotiations for Croatia's entry into full membership, our flag was on the grey list, which in a certain way was one of the obstacles to Croatia's entry into full EU membership and in that process, during only 3-4 years, we managed to define and enable the Croatian shipowners to rebuild their fleet, through our inspectors who assessed the quality of our fleet, the commercial fleet, which assessed the ability of Croatian sailors. We had to blast those fleets and these sailors, to that extent, that theirs, that our ship, when it sails to London, that is, when it sails to Amsterdam, when it sails to Hamburg, when it sails any port and when it's trusted by the inspectors of those states, to meet all the greatest criteria, so that we can get on the white list. It was a very demanding job for both the safety of navigation and our port captains' inspectors, not to speak for our shipmen. And in that very short process, I don't know if a country jumped so quickly on the Paris Memorial list. We are on the white list today when we talk about both the seamen's ability and the quality of our ships, and thus legitimateizes us, as a good, high-quality maritime state, which we can thank very much to the employees of the Ministry's navigation security administration and on the other hand, we can thank the employees of port captains, in the first place, the safety inspectors. Here in this sense I believe that this law will indeed enable even more quality operation of port captains, to improve what is the least important status of employees of port captains in terms of working time and their availability to all users of port captains' services. That it will be filled in as a whole by systematisation, envisaged by the systematicisation of jobs in the companies themselves, that in this way these captains will meet their purpose both on the sea and on the rivers. Now, in that sense, we're going to support this law at the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92740	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom Anka's respected representative, Mrak Taritash, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92741	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Port Captainships, as has been said before. It's about the law in '97. Mr. I was going to look for some other laws, which are so old, so I was wondering if there was anything we still had in place so long, that there were no changes or additions, so I couldn't find anything, which is to say, that it was a law that was basically working. Although in these past 20 years, some things have changed and it is certainly the basis, to make a new law, and to regulate it in a new way. Among other things, as the explanation has been said, and the minister mentioned it, so what we have, we have from 1774 from the time that the Republic of Croatia was part of another state, so we have in the continuity of the Austrian state declaration in the sea and certain traditions that go from that time. In the meantime, since this law was in force, a number of other regulations have happened, a number of other problems have arisen and certainly this is one of the reasons why the ministry has not only decided, but because it is simple and realized that the time has come to sort out the regulation in its fields and to regulate everything that was in the meantime a problem, where they could not give the basis of the law the right answers, I primarily mean the topics that are related to the aspect of environmental protection and nature protection. There are a series of regulations that have been, a series of regulations related to the pollution of the sea, to hawari, to the extraction, to the collapse, to the extraction of submerged ships. In this sense, it was absolutely logical to have such a regulation, that is, one of these laws. We at the GLAS Club and HSU, we will support this law for a simple reason, whenever we talk about laws, somehow divide them into several groups. One, this law belongs to that group of technical problems where you are actually solving technical problems, you are harmonising with the countries in the environment, you are harmonising with the directives and obligations that you need to have with the EU directives, but you are also coordinating with the real problems you have, for the simple reason, life and the world have not stopped and there are a number of problems to answer. And that's why this law is technically quite correctly made and defined. We come up with something, it won't be me who rarely believes which law, where we won't open up the problem of people and the problem of those who need to do certain jobs. I didn't accidentally ask the minister in his presentation, how many inspectors there are, and then he answered me, that 25 of them are 5 inspectors, who are inspectors on the maritime good, these are others. You simply find yourself in a situation where your country and in terms of the economy prove that there is some kind of progress or step-up or new jobs, then you have a case where you can't hire a quality fit for a simple reason, which you can't pay them in an adequate way, and then when everything goes down then you don't have the need for employment. So what we have, the situation is this, we're going to have on one side one decent, I would say, the law, which will respond to the weather, which will say that something needs to be regulated and then have a real situation on the ground. And the real situation on the ground will be different, we won't have enough people to do that job. We won't have enough people to have all the conditions and all the elements to do them. That's why I think that in the section you're prescribing certain conditions for employees, it's somewhere in the back of your heads, think about it a little bit, and I said that on the Committee of Legislatives, so we have this one tendency to be very strict and to prescribe very strict terms. And then in real life when we have laws and we come up with these strict conditions, it happens we don't have people, we don't have people who can meet it. And then we're getting ourselves into a situation, so that we have some kind of half-determination, that someone in the half-solve is doing something. Therefore, since this law was passed by our committee before the summer break, it is now the first reading, therefore, between the first and the second reading. The best - meaning advice is, let's try, however, to have regulations, which when they come into force we will be able to properly implement them. And give that head that talks about the conditions you need to have, talk a little bit, call a work meeting, some field colleagues, and a little bit at a work meeting, see if at this point we can meet, are we able to get people who can do it? Because if you are unable to get people who can work, today you have a shortage of people, today you have a problem, port captains are going out, on all possible handouts, on all possible calls, and that's something we can absolutely say that Croatia is doing it right. You're familiar with those situations and those things when someone comes to you for the conquest of Croatian islands, you actually lift everything up and get out. Mr. Butkovic is originally from a part of our coast, where I have a cottage, where every summer, therefore, that part beneath Velebit, Novi Vinodolski, every summer, someone goes to conquer Krk or seems to him, or the way of Vrbnik starts, because it seems to him that Vrbnik is very close to him, when he starts somewhere to stop. We all know when the storm starts from Velebit, if it's a nice day for you, opens in class, port captains do their job well, and that should be said, but that job is responsible and demanding. The question is, therefore, that picture that we have from childhood and painting, when we always have that captain showing us, as a gentleman in decent years with gray beard and gray hair, that's our reality, our port captains are mostly like that. So we have to hire new people, so we have to enable young people when they finish maritime schools, when they get experience on foreign ships and everything else to come back and work there. And so this head that, therefore, you have all the heads, which speaks about employment and conditions, for the sake of all of us, because of this one tradition of port captainies that are well, where well, therefore, they do their job well, give to another reading, one effort, which I hope will not be particularly demanding, talk to them a little. I read it to my colleagues who were on the board I warned them a little bit, it seems to me it's pretty strict and it's quite restrictive. Let's see, don't bring the law, just because someone's stubborn and you won't have anyone to hire. It's already happening to us that we have port captains without proper labour, you know that well. And when it comes to their actions, then it is always a consequence of the right to basically save human life, and then all possible good and in this respect, I suggest that the second reading be made an effort, in that part of the law is complemented, in the first reading, given that it is a single correct law, the law that solves the problem which, we of the GLAS Club and HSU, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92742	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92743	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. At first, I should say that the SDP club will support this law because we can essentially say that it is a good and technically correct law and if it is fully implemented, we can really expect an improvement from the aspect of the safety of navigation and the search and rescue of human lives at sea and intervention in the sudden sea of pollution. Also in this law as you did well in your work, it was important to establish the territorial structure and organisation of the work of port captains and this is how you achieved it. In addition to the territorial structure, we also talked about it at the meeting of the committee responsible, that the aim of the law was to raise the quality of public services provided to citizens and economic operators by port captains and other navigation security services. The sitting itself also shows a bad example that takes place in the application of the current law, and you yourself have found that it has not been changed for more than 20 years, refers to the very jurisdiction defined by the law in which it has shown that it is often inefficient service to citizens and economic operators because, often in order to resolve its requirements, people did not go to the nearest port captainium but to a competent port captain who was in some cases 500 km away. This law also clearly defines the tasks or safety of navigation of maritime goods control are governed by the legal obligations and responsibilities of officials and subsistence officers in the performance of their duties. And if I don't take up valuable time and I don't repeat extensive debates between you and both colleagues, I will remind you, the SDP club will support the law and I believe that in the coming years we will be more dynamic, not wait more than 20 years for the bad law to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92744	Thank you. We are now moving on to an individual debate and the following will be spoken by the respected representative Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92745	... This bill finally seeks to regulate the territorial structure and organisation of the work of port captains in a good way, to identify the safety and safety of maritime goods and the way they are organised, as well as the inspection powers and other issues relevant for the operation of port captains. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Cologa Ćosić, microphone.]] The port captains system on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we heard it exists in continuity since 1774 and the current Port Captains Act was adopted in 1997. Since it has not been amended or updated since the entry into force of 1997, it is no longer in accordance with any of its provisions with other positive legal regulations governing the establishment of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia, leading to a series of problems in its application and implementation. Namely, the Internal Water Ports Act adopted this law in 2007 and the recent amendments were addressed in 2014. The entry into force of this law means the development of navigation safety functions at sea, the internal water safety function, and so far the application of the Port Captains Act and the Law on navigation and the ports of internal waters has caused a number of problems both in the implementation and in the application of these regulations. Applicable Law on port captains only partially determines the territorial jurisdiction of port port captains since the jurisdiction of port captains is defined in the area of inland seawater, the territorial sea, the ecological fishing belt and the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia. This is a major problem in the exercise of the prescribed powers I come to at the same time, at the same time, the Internal Water Ports Law regulates the areas of jurisdiction of port captains of internal waters in a way that makes it difficult to implement the implementing rules. So, for example. The areas of territorial competence of certain port captains of internal waters cover areas of several counties, as well as some counties in which maritime port captains are based. This definition of jurisdiction is seen as a result of an inefficient service both to citizens and to interested economic operators in the Republic of Croatia because, in order to resolve their requirements, they did not go to the nearest port captainium but to the competent port captainium, so in these materials it is seen that the owner of the boat on Neretva had to report a boat accident to the Port Captain Sisak and not to the nearest sea captain. By proposing this law, the Port Captain Sisak has been reduced by losing the areas of Plitvice Lakes in Ličko-Senj County and the area of NP Krk from Sibenik-Knin County as well as all other unremarked areas of the inner waters, means Lake Vrana and all those other responsibilities that the captain had on the inner waters. They have jurisdiction over the Sava River waterway from a mile and 469 river kilometers, that information is not correct, that's 475 kilometers, I'll say why. It is the mouth of a large stream to the border with the Republic of Slovenia and the river Kupa, the area of the inner waters of Sisak-Moslavina County, Zagreb County, Krapina-Zagorje County, Karlovac County, Bjelovarsko-Bilogor County. I think it is good that this law re-proposes itself in a unique way to organise and modernise the state of administration's activities regarding the system of safety of navigation in fullness and a single navigation security system throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the necessary adjustments have been made in the organisation of the work of port captains in the context of the general rules in work with a view to more efficient and quality provision of public services, the citizens of interested economic operators, this is good, however, this will inevitably withdraw and, respectively, implies that the Law on Port Administrations, which counterpart Branko spoke of, if nothing changes, then the current Law on the navigation of ports of internal navigation identifies. So the competent port captains, the port administrations, according to this law, are the same territory, so here, port administration Sisak, the team will lose its powers, let's say, on Plitvice Lakes, which I think are equally distant from the port administration of Senj, and with that it loses its income, so here, for years it has invested and I don't know in other facilities, that little is being taken care of, that this administration should practically not even exist anymore, we know what the waterway is on the Sava River, especially on this upstream part. In addition, this proposal for a law will undoubtedly establish comprehensive borders of the administrative territorial jurisdiction of port captains on the mainland, in the maritime area of internal seawater, territorial seas and epicontinental belts in the Republic of Croatia with a view to achieving greater efficiency in the operation of the entire service in implementing the rules laid down in the rules on the safety of navigation and environmental protection against pollution from maritime facilities and inland waterways. ... here has proposed that, when drawing up the final draft law, the Proposer shall bear in mind that the correction is carried out in Article. 13th, which determines the responsibility for carrying out navigation security operations for the port captain of Slavonski Brod, that is, point 17. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this proposal of the law, it is stated that the port captainium Slavonski Brod has its territorial powers, among other things, in charge of carrying out safety navigation operations for the Sava River waterway from river kilometre 207 Račinovci, to river kilometre 469 mouth of the Great Strug. Which is not correct, namely the new measuring and maintenance of the Sava River, which is essentially not so much a new measurement, it is at least 15 years old and perhaps more, indicated... It became the stationary of the river's 210-mile-plus 800-mile-long river Račinovci, which means the river's kilometre where we border the Republic of Croatia, and the river's 475-mile-long mouth of the Great Struga. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those false data are likely to be downloaded from this applicable law on inland ports, where applicable. 204 where it is defined, it is made a lapus, and in the same law art. In 105, where the waterway is determined, these stations are correctly listed, so here, this is reflected in that initial station and the territorial structure of the port of Sisak. I support a solution that supports security services, maritime and internal navigation, reorganising a unique navigation security system, composed of all port captains, search and rescue services at sea, as well as maritime and river transport management services, which achieves a comprehensive integration of maritime port captains' systems and port captains of internal navigation. And this law also defines that the National Centre for Harmonisation, Searching and Rescue at Sea, based in Rijeka, has defined, however, this bill is not more detailed in search and rescue of internal waters, meaning rivers and lakes. This was done in more detail by the Law on navigation and ports on internal waters. Namely, it is established as part of the waterway agency national lynx central it is a Rijeka Information System that monitors and monitors navigation on the Sava, Drava and Danube, jurisdiction on possible... The situation, in terms of security, i.e. search and rescue, is being taken over by the responsible port captainate, and she continues to engage the necessary services, whether the mountain rescue service, police, county headquarters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I think that this should be worked out in more detail in this law, especially as it announces the abolition of that agency and all the measures that arise, so I think that it is somehow or connected to this... search and rescue at sea, as part of that agency, that service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think this law would have been good if it had gone along with the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Waters, in order to comply with the jurisdiction of port captains and the security of navigation throughout the Republic of Croatia, so as not to continue further collapsing these laws, the more this law passes... The articles concerning the territorial structure have not been put out of force, and here you have shortened the mammalian area yourself, so it should have been annulled in that other law that is under this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think the articles about security, as far as I could check, I think they're fine. Finally, I would like to point out that I support the proposed law, and I would like to ask that, when drawing up the final draft law, the Proposer consider the comments and proposals made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92746	We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I told my colleague, and you confirmed and praised the fact that it is defined by law in the territory and area of a particular port captainy, i.e. its jurisdiction. From what you said, it is read that the port administration of Sisak, has certain revenues based on the provision of services... or port fees, I don't know exactly on Plitvice Lakes right now, and now that these revenues are practically losing, because the jurisdiction over Plitvice Lakes is taking over the port captainium of Senj, so nothing changes there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Those jobs done so far by the port captainate in the Plitvice Lakes area will now be carried out by the port captainate Senj, but the jobs done by the port administration of Sisak will continue... The revenues that it has already collected from the port administration under the Law on water will continue to be collected by the port administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this respect, nothing has changed since this law does not go into jurisdiction in any way reducing the jurisdiction and affairs of the port administration of Sisak itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92748	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92749	I thank my colleague Bačić, if that is the case, that is fine, namely in the Law by navigation and inland ports, they are strictly connected to territory, jurisdiction, captainships and port administrations. They have the same jurisdiction and if it comes to this, then that law, this is not in accordance with that law. So they're changing territory, and the port to rights under that law is losing that territory, because it works under that internal navigation law. It may be, of course, that I may come to say decreation of jurisdiction and port administrations, I agree, but here, it was necessary to make sure that some port administrations, which there masters, for years and territorially are nothing further than that, that they do not lose and that I say their incomes, are to be taken into account. I certainly support the safety to put it in one place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92750	Thank you. The next individual debate is that of the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92751	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say a few words about the Port Captain's Act, in my first reading. Since I come from the local self-government that is at sea, and we know what, the minister was mayor of one city at sea, with a famous outpost, an even more famous captain, and we know what the port captainate means to us and why the leaders of local self-government struggle to have a port captainium in their space, especially if it wants to be a good tourist destination, which can provide all services, tourists, especially boaters, those who love to sail and, of course, benefit from that and a domestic population. When something exists in 170 years as a service with its structure, which today achieved that we have 2 VTS centers, 12 captains, 72 outposts with 370 almost employees, where there is still a clear lack of systemization, 100 employees, it was clear that it was necessary to think even better after 20 years, even though we returned to what we had until '97 which unique internal navigation security system and security at sea. Why is the port captain important to us? We at sea at the concession, we need port captains, we need their knowledge, then, the moment we make something and we issue certain solutions, that we have someone who can control it. And it's good that you've introduced now, this is that someone as an authorised officer, during the examination of the maritime goods, can verbally, immediately, stop works, means oral solutions, although it's a little questionable how it is an oral solution, but pull the tape, shut up, place the stamp and stop further destroying the maritime goods. I think that's very good. That he had a good provision, in which, without a written warrant, you point a direct superior to the search and rescue of the nearest or best or one that can process search and rescue, and then solve paperwork, which is also very important. And this is that at all times the port captain is authorized to examine everything on the marine good. Indeed, we, on a maritime good, in the course of the year, have a lot of events that we cannot control, as mayors, mayors and any call to the port captain, should be, in my opinion, some sort of enforcement. However, I must say, we do not always have such a reaction. The port captain has a lot of work to do, especially today, ship registration, equipment, inspections, etc. meeting all the conditions, but at the moment, means when we start the tourist season, they simply don't have teamwork, so they can function at a higher level. So the office job and the job at sea and the job of monitoring all reported irregularities on the marine good. We just have to say that, and that's why it's good that if this law allows it to be found as soon as possible, and I think there are young educated people, who can meet the conditions, to fill these 100 jobs in port captains. That's one problem. The other problem is, what we want, I say we always have a port captain's station, and we don't have solved relationships in terms of the space within which they work. So many places are either at their disposal, given by local self-government and never solved relationships, in what way to solve it. I think it should be the central government's task to have those premises in its possession, all of them and one of them. What they are are to be restored or to be better, or to buy a new one, but to be solved. The town of Rab has been very nice and that it is indeed a satisfying and super-organized space in which you can see that both the user and the local man and the tourist means, but also the one who works inside and has his jobs. And I think we can solve it in all other places, with the means being planned, that these things are really solved. Because everyone says, when they look at you and the port captain comes, when it blows a little bit, it comes to me, it's government at sea, it's respect, it's something that's been created for decades, and I think these people deserve, as well as the police who also has their powers, the maximum port of the central state, and I think they'll have, not only through this law, but you as the leading people, of this ministry, to get rid of them, not only to be formal and to indicate what their obligation is, we see that it's 24 hours. Yeah, well, let's just try to be better by next summer maybe than it was this year. So in time, the contests, that in time we have those seasonal employees, that we don't repeat the competitions throughout the year, no, I know, so we don't get anybody, no. Because we have to admit that we're making a payment and that this is one worthwhile service. So she's in the state budget, bringing money, and it's not small money, it's really big amounts and it's worth investing by the state in this kind of one service and their status, their appearance, their space where they work and their ship. I don't know how we stand with the ships, but I think there's a need to maybe rebuild some part of the ships of port captains, at least what I saw in my island's space, but that really these people feel like we're going now to a system of Homeland Security that's really already recognizable now, which has shown its results throughout this year, especially in summer means where we have space, where the army, where the police are being arranged, that the port captain gets one status, that really these people are being supported by the central state through this law, but I say, even more than I should pay for them to achieve their good intentions or their role. So here, once again, I support this law, and I hope that we will have it very soon not only this one, but also the next one that should address the issue of maritime goods and port management, also very quickly in the debate so that we can prepare the season in 2019 and welcome it even better than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92752	Thank you, we have one replica of Honorable Representative Dark Tarritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92753	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'd like to refer a little bit to that part in the introduction when you were talking about controlling the maritime goods and the oral solution. Maritime good is something that we really need to protect and what we have the opportunity to see and what we have had the opportunity to see once when the devastation occurs, there is a devastation immediately. If they get in the process, and we all know how this procedure goes, and then the office comes back, and then there's a solution, and then there's no one to deliver that solution because there's no one else, so that's where I come from. That is why we are simply in the regulations if I want to be operational we will have to introduce ourselves in certain cases really this oral solution because it is the only way in which you can really speak or spot-on. I saw not one example where the people who did construction work were getting into the sea because it was the hottest thing for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92754	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92755	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, that's why I said I especially liked it because I think the port captain already has enough authority when he shows up anywhere on the seabed, whether he's controlling whether the deck chair is in a place where he needs to be or someone is doing something unauthorized, that he can verbally say his solution and do his job, stop something if it's bad, so we'll write or arrange, how we'll write or write something but let's stop what's been done because simply people today don't really get over any activities on the maritime good and the port captain is according to our laws, the only one that can stop it in some way. The local self-government, unfortunately speaking of maritime goods, has certain possibilities but are not based much more on the law than a port captainy can do, which is why they are important and therefore I say, I support them, and this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92756	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President Sabra, the honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the laws that challenge a unanimous quality assessment in this assembly, regardless of whether it is ruling or opposition, so this is one law so that in my brief debate, I would say that this law certainly contributes to greater safety of navigation, search and rescue of human lives at sea, and especially what is important to our Adriatic, intervention in sudden pollution of the sea. It is also important that it enables us to work more easily on land when we stop sailing service and what I want to stress in particular, which is why I have reported most of the word, to better regulate work during the tourist season, so perhaps this is an opportunity to thank all port captains, all the employees of port captains for the huge work they did this summer when there were about 60,000 vessels on our Adriatic during the peak of the tourist season. What I would like to draw attention to is one article, which is Article 33 of the Minister, since recently the Minister of Administration Mr Kuščević said that we will reduce the number of state officials and that all directors of the administration will be in the status of officials, in Article 33, here is the proposal that the administration is managed by the director with the status of state official responsible for the security of navigation appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic to the proposal of the Minister, so that this article no longer fits the proposal as announced by Mr Kuščević, where directors of the administration will not be officials but civil servants, so you can only see whether it is necessary to correct it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92758	Thank you very much. With that I would conclude a debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92759	We're going to vote now. Proposal for a law on port captains, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 382., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on port captains, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that 108 votes for and 15 abstentions are the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92760	And now we're going to move on to the next point, and that's: - Proposed law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 394 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? It seems to me that, respectable Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92761	Honorable MPs and MPs. So it's an honor to introduce you to what the government has to do before you start discussing the Law of Infractions. So it's about five amendments and additions to the law of violation. The direct consequences of the reform of the judicial system implemented through the existing reorganisation of the first-degree courts network in the Republic of Croatia and the corresponding amendments to the Law on Courts in the same timeframe, together with amendments to the law on areas and courts and to the law on the State Judiciary Council. The objectives to be achieved are to facilitate the merger of municipal and criminal courts, to improve the system of court management and to carry out the affairs of judicial and judicial administration. The merger of municipal and criminal courts will be carried out in such a way that infringement courts as a specific species will no longer exist, so that the organisational merger of infringement courts with municipal courts should be properly harmonised, that is to say, adapted to the text of the applicable law of violation which appears to be these amendments. The concrete merger of municipal and criminal courts stems from the fact that the inflow of infringement cases has been significantly reduced in recent years. The number of pending infringement cases at the end of 2015 was 69 500, at the end of 2016. 56 500, and at the end of 2017 it was 40 737,... There has also been a significant reduction in the burden of judges of criminal courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A significant drop in the inflow of infringement cases, following changes to the applicable law enforcement legislation, has shown the lack of perspective of further retaining the special structure of infringement courts whose merger with municipal courts will allow for more rational use of judges and official potentials. The merger of municipal and criminal courts will ensure optimal use of staff in courts, and the infringement courts would become departments within municipal courts and the excess of judges could be rerouted from the infringement case to other branches of the trial where there is a deficit of personnel and where the burden is significantly higher. Therefore, the main reason for the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Infringement Act is the merger of municipal and criminal courts and I would say a technical adaptation of the text of the law which will allow for functional merger, i.e. a smooth application of the law in such conditions. In addition, several provisions have been amended in order to further harmonise with the law on criminal proceedings in respect of decision-making and the right to compensation for the costs of proceedings and with regard to the limits of the examination of the first-degree judgment. This type of harmonisation is now particularly justified under the conditions of the termination of the existence of criminal courts as separate types of courts and the transfer of jurisdiction of the criminal trial to the municipal level. In addition to the above, these amendments and amendments to the law of infringements have removed certain nootechnic deficiencies in Article 13 of the resolution of the provisions in order to remove non-understanding application in the practice of Articles 17, 18 and 19 and corrected obvious writing errors in the text of the applicable law on infringements, for example Article 24. Thank you for your attention, and we're staying here with you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92762	Thank you very much. If he wants a member, and we have one, I'm sorry, we have one replica. Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This replica should be interpreted more as a correction to the incorrect assumption, and I hope that the distinguished Secretary of State will agree with me and when he gives an answer accepts what I'm about to say. So you weren't entirely correct when you said that these were abolished infraction courts and are joined in the future, if we are watching the law, we see that we are still talking about the municipal misdemeanor court in Split, the municipal criminal court in Zagreb and the high criminal court, so I ask you to correct and be absolutely accurate and we say that this brings together most of the misdemeanor courts, and these two biggest cases, at least according to how I read the law and remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92764	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92765	This merger and that title has been changed in other laws, so we here adapt to that fact the Law of Infractions, and you are right, but there was no need for these amendments to talk about because it was spoken in a package of laws that had already been adopted. ... We'll fix it if... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92766	Thank you very much. Now, would anyone like to take a word from the committee reporter? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92767	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, it seems we are meant to be together, permanently. Honorable Secretary of State, MPs and MPs. This novel of the breaking law is part of what we have called a reform of the judiciary for decades, a concept translated into just one of the Croatian political and social flossules, and what many lawyers, both legal theorists and legal practitioners call a flood of palitative, generally poorly invented, uncoordinated and uncoordinated measures that have multiple negative consequences, and bring uncertainty into the legal system. As a result of countless legal novels, it can be heard at every step that, for example, changes to the criminal law, lead a dead race with amendments to the law, as well as experienced lawyers at the outset, a serious effort to determine which law, which law is applied in the first place, so that only after that could they begin to think about how this law applies. For these reasons, it is easy to imagine how, then, an average citizen who is not a lawyer and who, even in complex situations, would want to act in accordance with the law, whether as an authority of a right, was a liability in the broadest sense of the word, but does not know which regulations should be followed. The one from last month, the one from spring or last fall. The complaint about frequent legal changes is, therefore, not some theoretical lamentation, but a problem that reflects on life. Especially that economical inciting business immorality, culture of non-payment and weakening what we call the morale of Croatian society. Unfortunately, as elsewhere, we also rely here on cosmetic measures to think that joining the misdemeanors with the municipal courts will lead to the repair of the difficult situation in the judiciary and the cost of judicial proceedings. That is what was thought several years ago when the abolition of most municipal courts and their conversion into permanent services enabled, for example, the dispute between the people of Krk and Punta on the island of Krk in which the parties represent lawyers from the city of Krk, not in Krk but in Delniki. I guess even from Punta is closer and cheaper to get there than in Krk. In the context of this bill, we are afraid something similar will happen now. In a numerical sense, of course, the number of judges of municipal courts who today are high above the European average, but not the number of judges, nor the speed of trial as important as it is, and indeed extremely important, must not be a key criterion in judicial reform. The quality of the trial should be put first, the quality of the trial is a key factor in reducing the number of court files, just as it is a key factor in legal certainty, and that means also an important element of economic and cultural progress. Judges of criminal courts whose expertise we do not want to question at all, have been tried in criminal cases, so they lack both knowledge and experience for trial in other areas of law. It is unrealistic to expect that even the most classy among them will be able to manage easily and quickly because without any additional education and transitional period they will find themselves in a situation where, for example, a prominent cardiologist in an ophthalmological office or vice versa, as such doctors would practice on patients regardless of the health consequences of these trials, so these judges will exercise on the parties, their rights and obligations which many of them mean life naked. However, it is the impression that the proponent is completely irrelevant, seeking short-term effects and cheap impressions, not the deep structural and rooted reform of the Croatian judiciary. Thus, in all other areas of public life in the spirit of the official philosophy of Mr Plenkovic, it is important that so-called "the "Plenkovic". Stability and so on. Rating, future and fate of the Croatian people and their countries are not interested in this technical government at all. That is why, in the proposed legislative paper, we find surfaces and inconsistencies. For example, from the applicant’s introductory notes, the assessment of the situation etc. written in very weak Croatian, by the way. Essentially, the inflow will be ensured, etc., that, in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Courts, criminal courts become special departments of municipal courts are abolished. That's what turns into an article. 1st and 2nd and 3rd novels to be used in art. 82, 92 and 93 of the current legal text, the word "infringing" or "infringing" is replaced by the words of the municipal or municipal court in the corresponding declines. However, as we have heard, it is neither right nor consistent because in Zagreb and Split there remain separate misdemeanor courts. They are said to be referred to in Article. Four novels, or in the future 94. Violent law. Their existence, therefore, will be in collegiate with a new revision of Articles 82, 92 and 93, so that should be corrected on time. Inconsistencies continue in art. 5. novels according to which the future article. 95. The law of violation predicted that a high criminal court would decide, among other things, on complaints from municipal courts in criminal cases. However, the municipal misdemeanor court in Zagreb and the municipal criminal court in Split will not be the courts of general jurisdiction, so municipal courts that judge in certain types of cases, civil, criminal, criminal, but will be special courts. Therefore, for reasons of legal certainty, they should also be mentioned in the article. 5. This should also be done in the following legal articles, leaving no court practice to interpret how the general formula in courts of general jurisdiction also includes two courts with special jurisdiction. At the scene, it's just a close article. 30 contains so-called It cuts down, so the word items should be replaced by word items. The Independent Club for Croatia will refer the amendments in question in accordance with the procedure, and we expect their acceptance from the promoters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92768	Okay. Let's move on to another pay phone, Mrs. Maria Jelkovac in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92769	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected state secretary with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, which was passed in 2007 and entered into force in 1.1.2008. The law has been amended twice, in 2013, and these changes were of a reform nature due to discharging courts, increasing the efficiency of the execution of decisions or the collection of fines, more effective forced collection is the simplification and acceleration of procedures to increase the efficiency and capacity of courts. The third and fourth amendments to the 2015 Penal Code were carried out because of the transposition of binding EU acts into our legislation. These 5 changes are a direct consequence, as the Secretary of State said, of the reform of the judicial system that we actually voted in July this year. The aim of these amendments is, therefore, to enable the merger of municipal and criminal courts, to improve the management of courts and to carry out the affairs of judicial and judicial administrations. Violent courts would no longer actually be as independent so they should, in fact, be regulated by the law itself. The merger of municipal and criminal courts stems from the fact that, as determined by the analysis, the inflow of infringement cases has been significantly reduced, thus reducing the burden of the offenders. So we must all agree that it would not be fair for judges to have the same salary in some way and not equally burdened with objects. And that's why I think that this proposed change is good, that it leads to rationalization of business and efficiency. On the other hand, and righteousness in a way that judges should be evenly burdened with objects. As regards the other amendments to this proposal, there is also an amendment to several provisions, in order to comply with the CAP and to decide on the right to compensation for the costs of the procedure and with regard to the limits of the examination of the first-degree judgment. The implementation of this law does not require any additional means, and since this proposal is actually part of it, or we can say the consequences of the changes that have taken place, but rather the laws that have been passed, and they are part of judicial reform, we, as a club, will also support amendments to the criminal law because we believe that all of this together will contribute to the efficiency of the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92770	Thank you too, Mrs. Jelkovac. Now in front of the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, retired, Mr. Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92771	.../The speaker speaks Italian./ Greetings to the Vice-President in his native language [[Intruder Radin: Now you will have to...]] Now, that would be a little harder. [[Intruder Radin: Now you will have to give the whole speech in Italian.]] Here, let's break some boredom. As for the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal, the GLAS and HSU Club will be quite restrained on this bill, so we will not be against what we have already adopted here in the Croatian Parliament but we will be restrained from already being told, that I do not repeat the dilemma about the future quality of the trial in the infringement procedure. It is true that the offenders had easier or lower criteria for becoming a criminal judge than the municipal judges, and that this would indeed leave certain consequences in the quality of judgments. Therefore, the second question is that we have not consistently determined, that in all spheres we have not had the same criteria and left the county courts for secondary courts but here we have the jumpouts, we have the High Court of Violation or we have the Criminal Courts in Zagreb and Split. So, no, we're not, we're not setting the whole system unambiguously. But since this is about first reading, maybe there's plenty of time for certain things to be even possibly macho technical errors. I am taking the opportunity that, since it is not the matter of this law, but the matter by which judges and courts under this law will judge, to draw attention to a law that we inherited from the former state of 1977, the last amendment was in 1994, it is unacceptable that we have such a law in our legislation. It's about the Law of Infractions against Public Order and Peace, it's a failure of all governments so far. In this law, we talk about penalties in DMs, Deute Marks and their equivalents in kunas. We're talking about municipalities or city councils, we're talking, just a little bit. That's exactly what it says, right? Just a minute. Yeah, yeah, about communities. [[Intruder: Community of municipalities.]] Okay, it doesn't matter now. We're not gonna waste any time on that. Penalties do not deter at all, the heights of punishment do not deter offenders from further committing such offences. You, with forgiveness, if someone spits on the employer, excuse me, officer in action, they'll get a fine of 100 euros, of course, if he doesn't get something on his nose, right? But he's going to get a fine of 100 euros, which is the biggest impediment. In doing so, if he's in custody for a few hours it's going to shrink by 300 kuna. So we have one law that is totally not, so it's not functional in terms of prevention of a crime, and we're redecorating a system that will decide on violations and punishment for violations. So, I expect that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice may offer us amendments to the supplement or a brand-new law on violations against public order and peace by the second reading. I know why it's about to be touched, because the content of this Law also includes a violation of the provisions on the highlight of some of the forbidden symbols. Obviously, it's a stone of confusion that no one has accepted the making of a new law. However, we do not even know how much for such perhaps daily-political reasons we are doing evil to our society and do not act by means of misdemeanor courts to combat the rise of public order and peace violations. So I hope the Justice Department will sort of respect what I said, so maybe by the next reading, we'll both have laws here before we do. I'll tell you what's inconsistencies in that law. The level and type of sanctions with the provisions of the criminal law, the lack of proportion between the level of penalties prescribed and the degree of distortion of order and the social danger of certain incriminal actions or prescribed relatively less fines, is prescribed by the minimum fine of DEM 50, 25,56 euros, around 190 kuna and the maximum fine of DEM 350 or 178 euros, respectively. Alternatively, he prescribed a prison sentence with an upper limit of up to 30 days, which almost nobody used. Legal descriptions of infringements under certain provisions shall be overlapped with legal descriptions of infringements under other laws. Generally, we have an inactive termology, the legal text uses, for example, the outdated terms of state authorities, the catering organisation, the municipal assembly, the definition of a public place, so that the new law is tasked with better determining the character of the infringement or the task of regulating violations against public order. So, once again, we believe that this Law does not solve the whole area, that this is just a segment that regulates where and how the criminal courts will function with this dilemma which my predecessor or colleague Hasanbegovic said and does not solve anything in the field of fighting, let's say, increasing violations or increasing the extent of the violations that these courts will have to judge, specifically I am talking about violations against public order and peace because they are unequivocally in most cases of trial in criminal courts, and we do not have clear provisions and once again I appeal that the ministry may be organising before the second reading of this Act and the Law on infringements against public order and peace. It would be best to make it a new law because this is really quite outdated in all segments. For the time being, I repeat again, the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU will be abstention in the adoption of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92772	Thank you. The third speaker is Mr Orsat Milenic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92773	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary, Assistant, Commissioner, I welcome you, especially colleagues, to have the advantage over the Secretary of State, yes. So first, we won't support this bill because we don't think it's good. Why isn't he good? Because although we support and we think it is necessary to implement a reform of a mistrial and we think that the idea we have advocated ourselves is absolutely good and necessary. We can't support this because it stops halfway and does nothing. It'll only cause chaos in the system. So on the one hand, we're sending a message here that we don't need criminal courts, that we're going to cancel them, and then we're leaving two of the biggest criminal courts and we're leaving the High Court of Justice. We say the High Violent Court will now oversee part of the municipal court in the area where it deals with violations. Well, that's absurd. So the municipal court will oversee the county court and VPS in certain matters. In practice, no one will be watching. So, why can't we be because it stops halfway, you didn't have the guts to go all the way. I really don't see why if a mistrial is lifted in Dubrovnik why it wasn't suspended in Split. If the Criminal Court is abolished in Osijek or Rijeka, why is it not suspended in Zagreb? If we said we were to move to a single court where there would be a section of offense within the municipal community, then let's get rid of them completely. Then why do we need VPS? The VPS was supposed to become a department at the new High Criminal Court you set up and I see nothing was done to establish it but in theory it exists so it could become a department there. Or one of the county courts. But then the network would make me more logical, make it more systematic, and it would be more permeable than the violations. This is how we do a duality that will in practice cause chaos. And that's not good. And I don't know why you didn't make that step to the end, I really don't. I'll remind you, we were here five, six years ago, I was the minister who came with a proposal to pay the fines on the spot half,... One-third. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were attacked here in the Parliament, people were saying discount, no good, etc. What's that? Well, one of the best solutions that's been given. One of the solutions that allows you to do this today. And we had the courage to make that step and do it at that moment. And I would beg you, consider, first reading, but there's no reason. If we go, if the violations move, move them completely. Have courage, make it all the way, narrow down that judicial system. Well, this is you, you have a pay system now. You also keep the pay system where you have one salary for VPS which is different from the other. You have a system of criminal pay. I mean, there's no need for that. Let's put it all on community level, as you've started and we support it, and then on community level let's develop the ranks of judges, so let's have people who are beginners, who do simpler things will have a little less pay, so those who do more complex things and with more internships will have the highest, so we'll have ranks on municipal courts, so people will progress through it, they'll have some perspective. Not when they get into the system, they stay on the same payroll for the rest of their lives, so that's one of your biggest problems. They won't have to advance to the high court in order to have a higher salary. That would be one thing if you'd completely blended the misdemeanors into this, it would have been easier for you to make ranks and make that shift. And so I say, in principle, I support but let's take a step to the end, a step halfway. I think it's going to cause chaos, and it's not going to make any contribution to quality, it's going to be the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92774	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to individual debates. We only have one argument, Mr. Peje Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will relate, of course, to the debate of my distinguished colleague Milenić and I will speak to that reform of the law we made, i.e. started there somewhere in 2013 that first went towards paying for the offence on the spot and then was extended if paid within one period of time after the infringement was committed. The constitution in these 20 years is about the most successful move in the Croatian judiciary that has led to the greatest discharge in one branch of judicial action. So we led first to the fact that people instead of going into criminal proceedings started paying fines when they committed crimes. Then what's going on? In those who refused to pay the fine as the courts were relieved, they were able to conduct their actions properly and we were no longer at risk of antiquity. Of course, we've corrected the statute of limitations in a much better way than it was solved by then, and we've brought down the system of mistrials into some normal, normal frames. I've come several times when reports from the Supreme Court president pointed out that the next step should be about the one in which it started. And this is that the judges of the misdemeanor courts who have been relieved in their work due to the reduction of the burden of the criminal courts are slowly starting to move to work on other cases to municipal courts. And it was done in the part where they were connected to municipal courts. And I'm talking to my colleagues from both the court and the state's attorney's office and my colleagues about how slowly they're going to move these colleagues from the criminal cases to what I know mostly about criminal cases because if you've been following the Supreme Court's work reports, you've certainly noticed that first-degree criminal cases in municipal courts, unlike most, or all other cases, are one serious increase. So that's one of our wound cancers that we need to act on. And in that context, these proposals are good. But now we're coming up with what counterpart Milenic said. For years and years in land-book cases, both in criminal and civil, executive, etc., where do we have the biggest problem in the Croatian judiciary? Zagreb and Split. And right where the transfer of these judges might have the most impact in the long term on the reduction of the burden in criminal trials because of course where most people live, there are also the most criminal acts, it's a perfectly normal correlation, right where it might help us we keep these courts separate. I am fully aware that managing such a large court would be more difficult if the number of judges increased, but I will remind you that in Zagreb and Split, we have divided, so if I am not mistaken, we have Split 1 and Split 2, am I wrong? Or is that what we gave up? We gave up that and then nothing. But in Zagreb we have Zagreb north, we have Zagreb south, we have the Municipal Working Court in Zagreb, we have the Municipal Criminal Court etc. We retain the municipal offence, although unifying with the Municipal Criminal Court could lead to the reduction of the pressure of the infringement cases, and it will be reduced as the courts become more up-to-date because no one will engage in paying 500 kuna, paying tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, 1000 kuna plus even the cost of 200,300 kuna in the process if they know that the statute of limitations will not take place. So the more up-to-date the misdemeanor courts, the smaller the amount of their cases will be, but something else will happen that we haven't thought about, and we haven't talked about, which is that they'll be able to transfer more experienced judges of criminal cases to municipal courts to do more serious criminal cases. I'm going to tell you one of the criminal cases I had as a lawyer, it was illegal mining, do you know what amount of seizing property was proposed by the state's attorney's office? Eight and a half million kuna. And we come to a courtroom where the judge has been doing parking tickets for the past few months, doing fines for non-binding belts, speeds, a little alcohol, etc. And now all of a sudden he's got illegal mining where he needs art and everything else, he's been holding an object in a drawer for years, it's been out of date, we've released the client and, of course, we've charged a huge amount of money from the state. Why? Because a criminal judge simply cannot have the experience of doing such cases, and then when we have united the criminal and criminal ones, especially in cities such as Split and Zagreb, then we can have these more serious criminal cases, and we have there the illegal use of stamps and the like, which were sometimes if you remember, and we who graduated a little longer remember, it was temporary crimes so they were done by commercial courts, we have such cases that are also done by offenders. You come to him with a violation of intellectual property rights after he's been doing wrong parking and speeds all day, he's not going. So I think this was a good direction, but we stopped one step ahead of the target. And now I'm going to stop at what's the subject of this law, and I'm going to open up a topic which unfortunately isn't the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law, but it's the subject of breaking legislation, or it's the subject of a law and I think it should go in that direction. About 10 years ago, Nokie's director was caught driving too fast. Do you know what punishment he paid? Over 100,000 euros. And do you know why? Because, as with us, punishments are determined in daily meals, not fixed amounts, in Finland, and in that way, punishments are determined. So this man paid the fine in correlation with his salary, which is of course, because the director of Nokia is huge, and the man had to pay over 100,000 kuna for speeding. Do you have any idea how much he would pay that fine in Croatia? 3000 kuna. 3000 kuna for someone who has a salary like we have, on average 15 000 kuna and someone who has an average Croatian salary of about 6,000 kuna is not the same and does not punish us the same. Once we put it down to that payment right now and all the other options that we have, so it's some average punishment that's said about 1000 kuna, it's for people who have higher incomes of 500 kuna, it's nothing. And they're gonna pay it like this and they're gonna move on. You remember all those famous Kerums when he was caught driving too fast and how easy he said it was nothing to him anyway. For this reason, my proposal is, I believe, that there may be no time for this amendment now, because it requires a deeper analysis and requires entry into the amendments and other laws, but to move towards breaking the legislation, in the light of the criminal law of fines, when we speak of natural persons, because commercial companies may also be subject to penalties compared to their incomes, let's remember that GDPR regulation when we have adopted it where it can be imposed and fines in the amount if I don't cheat 10% of the annual income, meaning that we apply to natural persons what we have in criminal law where the fines are still in the second plan in relation to sanctions, such as probation and imprisonment, we apply what we have to legal persons, and allow the situation where the same infringements are made by an example by the director, i.e.e. the owner of Konzum and workers in this Konzum, we don't have to pay the same penalty. For the simple reason that the same penalty in a fixed amount does not constitute the same burden for them and simply will not fulfill what is the purpose of punishment and in criminal law the same as in criminal law, which is to prevent the individual from doing the work he has done again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92776	Thank you very much. You have one replica of Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92777	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I agree with you in principle in this work when you talk about the level of criminal punishment that people should pay in accordance with their incomes, but you have performed from the position of lawyers, I will now perform from the position of all those people, here from the area from which I come from, let's say, who are entrepreneurs, who often travel, who are driving by car. You know, with me next to the nearest highway, you have 100 kilometers, and you're very likely to be doing a series of traffic violations on a road that passes through the settlements, which now has a lot of these, tractors and everything. And in that sense, your intensity, even though it's good, wouldn't be equally worth it to everyone, we're not all in an even position, compared to those who have highways4e, who have fewer opportunities and less opportunities to start such violations that would then be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92778	Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92779	Dear colleague, the fact is that Croatia has one of the most developed highway networks in the developed world. If we look at the head of the population, we're among the five countries, if we look at the surface, because of the specific configuration of the terrain, it might not be so pronounced, but we still have a very developed network. But that can't be an excuse, that someone doesn't respect traffic regulations. 'Cause I'm sorry, you can be as much of an entrepreneur as you want, but if you drive through 100 miles an hour for a populated place, there's no excuse for me. No speed, no haste justifies the fact that with such behavior, you put a whole series of human lives at risk. I don't think it can be done, a crime, and when you cross 20, 30, 40,000 miles a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92780	Thank you very much. The closing word has the secretary of state, Mr. Juro Martivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92781	Thank you very much... The Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Honorable MPs, MPs, I have a need as a representative of the government's proposings to say a few things, a few brief references to what you have in good intentions suggested, is done in first reading. I hope that there will be an opportunity, that your good suggestions at the moment when it is possible to turn into amendments and that we will eventually accept that, if our working group who has been doing this for a long time has tried and we feel that this procedure in the Law of Infraction was necessary, I said why. When in 2 years the number of cases is reduced by 30,000 and I read that data when I was speaking at the beginning, then there is a need to reorganize the network, infringing courts. So, there were speeches here in the discussion of the distinguished representative Hasanbegovic, that every change essentially creates legal uncertainty which, of course, we can speak at the theoretical level. Any change to any regulation in those who apply this, in the case of those in which it applies, can in a permanent way cause some kind of unrest over where its legal position can be changed, but that is not the reason why we do not change the laws, as is known, we have changed a lot of laws, when preparing to join the EU, after that, of course, by accepting the legal concepts of the EU, we must adapt our laws and do so. That seemed like some legal argument to me in your discussion, and I have a need, as a lawyer, to say it. As for the esteemed representative of Hrelje, you spoke of the necessary procedures in the Law on Public Order and Peace. I could agree with you here, it's a breaking law that I would say, unfortunately, it's no excuse, since speaking on behalf of the government it's not a law that we originally regulate in the Ministry of Justice, but I agree with you that it should be introduced into a single order and if we have such penalties prevented in marks, that in any case it shouldn't be there. And we will certainly initiate such a change from the Ministry of Justice. The colleagues Milenić and the coat of arms, these are fellow lawyers, they have spoken with argument, they have spoken their thoughts on it. I must say that we have considered all possible options, I must say that we have stood at the points, there are reasons that, therefore, the network of criminal courts is shut down, that there are infringements in municipal courts, but we have stood at the point of view even though we have considered that story, that we cannot do so with the Criminal Court in Zagreb, which is now becoming a municipal criminal court in Split, precisely for the reason that a colleague of Grbin has interpreted as possible reasons, which is that they would be prejudicial courts, and we do not believe that with the bulky systems can be managed operationally and quality. And those were our reasons. As for some of the fears you speak to your colleague Milenić, therefore, that we did not go out of fear to the end. We went all the way. We have reduced the number of courts, by the fact that the general social intensity, therefore, has decreased the number of infringements, we now translate these people into municipal courts and there we can, better quality and judicial but also bureaucratic and administrative potentials use them for the more efficient joy of municipal courts. It's rationalization. No disorder is introduced in a hierarchical sense, since the high criminal court will be resolved by an institutional court in relation to infringements from municipal courts, as well as by a municipal court, the municipal offence in Zadar and the municipal offence in Split. I don't know who might be causing any chaos. So I think there's a legal technical process, all clear. To someone who isn't, I don't think he understands or wants to understand. These are the things we've been thinking about, all the topics have been on our desk. We are, this is our observation angle, this is our view of the rationalization of the network of courts and the reduction of the number of courts, the number of presidents decreases, we go to efficiency, in this breaking sphere, but also in the municipal sphere, where these judges will be able to be used to solve the backlogs faster, which we all know is in the judicial power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92782	Thank you, too. The replica of Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92783	Dear Secretary of State, of course, that you were right, when you say that this is the problem I was talking about... The second ministry, but it is also a problem for your judges, misdemeanor courts and therefore, it is unfortunate that we do not work inter-resortly in Croatia, therefore, not to cooperate with 2, 3 ministries, about certain problems and solve problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The president of the police union said that the quality of the Law on Public Order and Peace Infractions depends on and the security of citizens, so their sense of security that they know that violations will be sanctioned and we have 45,000 offenders annually and somewhere around 32,000 committed violations a year that these courts must then rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92784	Time, Mr. Flea, time. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92785	So, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja, so I said, you're right to say, as if you didn't hear me, so I said that although the holder of this law is the Ministry of the Interior, we from the Ministry of Justice are going to try to initiate it to make an amendment not to, and I think that law is on the table and that it is spinning and that it may be in some kind of stalemate but the Law of Public Order and Peace is the current law that is being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92786	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. As you know, the conditions will most likely not this one but that other Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92787	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 394, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Code, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 80 for, 8 abstentions and 31 against the reached conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92788	And we move to the final point of today's agenda: - Proposed Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination, first reading, P.Z. No. 396 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the motionary's representative again, State Secretary Mr. Juro Martinovic, like to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92789	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So before you is the draft draft Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. The Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam was passed in July 2008 and entered into force on 1 January 2009. This law regulates the conditions and procedures for the admission of trainees to judicial authorities, the duration and the exercise practice programme, the conditions and the application procedure and the programme, the method of laying down and evaluating the judicial examination. This proposal for a law retains, to a greater extent, the concept of a applicable law on trainees in judicial bodies, with a view to amending certain legal solutions in order to address identified deficiencies in application, the need to improve individual solutions, and to comply with the rules that have entered into force following the adoption of this law. In the field of law enforcement, this proposal allows the law to carry out exercises in administrative courts established after the entry into force of the applicable Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination. The proposal for a law has left out the catalogue of precisely certain actions that trainees in judicial bodies can take and to allow for the more complete vocational training of trainees. In order to ensure that the conditions for passing a judicial examination as broad as possible of persons as a result of the limited possibility of recruiting trainees in judicial authorities, professional training is introduced to obtain the conditions for accessing this 18-month test. Previously known as volunteering according to the Law on interns in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam, so the law of the '90s which had the Institute of Volunteering. In the case of access and passing of a judicial examination, the identified shortcomings of the applicable legal solutions are intended to remove the provision of an identical compulsory prior vocational education of all candidates who approach the taking of a judicial examination in a 60-hour judicial academy and by prescribing an alternative condition for the accession of this examination to legal persons outside the judicial authorities, namely, outside the law and public records of at least 2 years of working in real affairs with the practice performed in court and compulsory professional education in the judicial academy or therefore, an alternative of at least 3 years of working on real jobs with compulsory vocational education in the judicial academy without the obligation to practice in courts. This draft law also elaborates on the work of the examination committee to pass a judicial examination by prescribing the obligation to hold a meeting of the Commission and the development of the institutions of the exemption of the members of the commission. The proposal more meaningfully regulates subjects in the oral part of the exams with the strengthening of the representation and importance of EU law by seizing them into a specific case. The proposal also introduces the possibility of passing the correction exam in one case and recognises the written part of the examination in the course of the re-entry of the examination with a view to facilitating the passing of this examination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92790	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteur want to take...? And we have two replicas, Mr. Vučetic's first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92791	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the government. This is an extremely valuable draft law, in particular this Article 21, which provides for an institution to exempt a member of the committee from oral examination in the case of persons who have been in some kind of business or intellectual relationship in the case of family ties. But what's worrying is that this institute of exceptions shouldn't be a minimal clue that we're fighting against non-potistic ties in the judiciary. For example, the city from which I come, Zadar, in our court, is also a court but it is also a real structure of emotional family relations. It should be kept in mind that when we enter a court of law and face law rather than meet institutional, emotional relations that should not be a place in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92792	Would you like to answer, sir?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92793	Very short, so Here, given that it was, I can say agree with you, so what I as a man, as a lawyer advocate, and that is strengthening institutions of all levels in the Republic, so that is what will bring us better and quality. [[Intruder Radin: Or you can do anything at the end, however you want.]] And what you're saying is going in that direction right now, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92794	Thank you very much. Mr. Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92795	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with my associates. It is commendable that, here after 10 years you remove certain parts of this law and the shortcomings you have noticed in practice and are also commendable to introduce professional practice and the possibility of a correctional exam and recognition of the passed examination in the accession of the entire exam itself. But you have also listed in this proposal a part that has intrigued me like this: “A milder evaluation of the written part of the exam is proposed. ” So I'm curious to know what this part refers to since young trainees who go to the judicial exam are somehow the most interesting part because of the discretionary rights of the interrogator or the people who interpret their writing of the verdict? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92796	Thank you, too. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Zlatko Hasanbegovic, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92797	Honorable Vice President, State Secretary, Assistants, MPs and MPs. At the very beginning, as a framework of discussion on behalf of the club Independent for Croatia, I would point out that the proposed legal text of the Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam is without a doubt an improvement compared to the existing situation. But there is still room for improvement to help repair the situation in the fallen judiciary, one of which is even the place... Points of Croatian political, from economic life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposer himself states that so far... Legislative provisions, imprecise and not clear enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore state when accessing and passing a judicial examination with valid legal solutions that are inadequately regulated are considered primarily issues and then taxively lists a number of reasons. This just means that in the new law, too, there is a need to avoid any ambiguity and ultimately limit the space for arbitration of persons for arbitration by unclear, confusing and indistinguishable standards. In addition, any breakdown of the legal proposal must come from the very name and purpose of the law. It's about the trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. So, about legal practitioners, about people preparing for the practical application of laws and regulations and not about scientific education, education for scientific calling. Therefore, legal practitioners must play a major role in each part of the law and the central place. The Constitutional Court also warned of this two decades ago, if you remember the motion to initiate the procedure for the evaluation of the constitutionality of the novel of the Law on Academic and Professional Names and the academic degree, which was given the right to use the title of the doctor of the law written behind the name and initiator of that constitutional court procedure, and the Constitutional Court itself rightly concluded that the Ministry of Justice before which it was then passed the judicial examination. It's not a science facility, so it can't share scientific titles and academic degrees. Therefore, despite this logical and legal conclusion in the years to come, the process in which the scientific community took over the domination of something that is not the area of scientific action, which was influenced by a few professors of the Zagreb Faculty of Law who were normally well honored by the authorities, some have acted on their own for more than a decade and a half among the students was dominated by university teachers. So maybe it was about achieving social influence, maybe the fees actually combined both of these reasons. The consequences of such a condition are also assured in the form of anecdotes. People who are preparing for practical application of the law have been asked very far-fetched and extremely theoretical questions about different legal theories and doctrines. And it was also remembered that the candidates had to take the knowledge of one of the fundamental legal rules, the Law on Criminal Procedure, although at that time the Constitutional Court had already been, put the law out of force, so everyone knew that it would never apply anywhere. A legal practitioner would never reach for such stupidity because he wants to represent him and that he is tried by a lawyer who knows how to apply the law and not by a lawyer who will empty theorize on issues that represent legal history. However, university teachers who participated in his work assumed their vast vanity to the needs of the Croatian judiciary, so they felt it was extremely important to ask the candidates about how they mastered the unconstitutional legal text. For example, for example, a specific article. 20. Therefore, it could include a new second paragraph, which could read, members of the committee of inquiry are graduates with a passed judicial examination which are judges, state lawyers, lawyers or public notaries, and have at least 15 years of working experience in the judiciary, and the proposed Article 20, paragraph 3 could be completely wiped out so far that this solution, as set out in Article 2. Therefore, a number of additional concrete remarks and proposals have been concluded. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7th century 3. talks about receiving trainees in judicial bodies, and it is said that 10% of points carry conversation, 50% of college grades and 40% of the results of the knowledge check. We believe that the conversation must not bear more than 5%, which would make the selection process more objective and transparent. While he's in art. No 21st, No 4th and provided for sanctions for offenders of the norm, Art. 21st century 5th is not such a case, nor is a sanction prescribed for candidates or respondents who do not report any other circumstances that question his impartiality. We do not see the reason for such inequality and we hold that for reasons of legal certainty and equality, citizens should also be subject to the same sanctions. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 22. So what here is called the payout of the harvest or fee is generally a weak point of Croatian society. No frameworks have been set for the determination of the price of the examinations or for the compensation of the interrogators. We believe that it is unnecessary for the minister to be tempted and that the Parliament should be described in relation to the average salary or in a similar way to determine the amount of these fees, taking into account the social one. Social reasons. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 29, so, in particular, section 2 should be introduced by our court that respondents must explain the assessments if they differ by more than 1 point. There were situations in today's laying system for one interrogator to give candidate 7 of the possible 10 points, the other, for example. 2 out of 10, so the candidate goes down on the exam without knowing how to make such a difference in the score. It is not clear from the proposed wording of Article 29(5) when the applicant receives information on the number of points of the written part of the examination, nor is it clear when and how it receives information that it is not written on the part of the examination. It's gone. The wording before the oral exam is not clear enough and does not take into account the fact that not all candidates from Zagreb, so it puts the candidate in an unequal position, for example. From Konaval who comes to take the oral part of the exam, he may find out before he knows that he hasn't even been in writing. Therefore, it should be prescribed that the candidate gets both the results of the written part of the exam by post or they are published on an appropriate protected website no later than 3 or 4 weeks before the oral exam to allow the candidate to prepare the oral part, travel to Zagreb and the like. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 30.v. 2. should be specified that interrogators cannot be used by law, textbook or similar auxiliary material either in writing or in electronic form in the examination itself. They must have at least as much knowledge as there are candidates. The more the candidate submits all groups of cases, the interrogator examines only one, so he should not repeat the anecdotal case of a professor of the Zagreb Law Faculty who questioned the candidates, keeping the legal text open. In this way, the interrogator could be any wrongdoer, historian, engineer of engineering and shipbuilding or doctor. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It is prescribed that the examination committee has 6 members, therefore an even number, and decisions are made by a majority vote with no one to be abstentioned. This means that the minimum majority of 4:2. Except that it is not logical or fair, it is necessary to specify the relationship or to specify such majority and the decision to pass the oral exam because in the public hearing, the Ministry argues that the decision is taken by agreement by all members of the examination committee. It should be noted that the score of the written part is described clearly and precisely, while this cannot be said for the score of the oral part of the exam. So, Art. The 33rd century of 4th in our court should also be reshaped because it repeats... the arrangement, it opens up the possibility for the candidate to pass both the written and oral part of the exams with a minimum number of points, that he eventually falls on the exam because the sum of minimum passing points does not cumulatively exceed 56. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in particular, examples can pass written and oral, yet fall because 56 points have not been achieved cumulatively. The passage takes two out of three passing written actions. Each one has 5 points, it takes 3 points to pass. He has 6 oral exams, 5 exams carry 15 points, and one exam carries 10 points. A minimum of 5 points should be reached for each oral passage. So the minimum for the passage of the written part is 6 points, the minimum for the oral passage is 30 points. It's all expensive 36 out of 100 so it's kind of logical that it's not passed the exam, it might be good to sort it out in a way that such an outcome does not mean a complete decline in the exam, but that it goes to the correctional one from the three worst oral exams and then it has to be done 56 points or maybe leave a system like this, but the number of points down to 51 or down to 51, with the possibility that the two worst lips go to correction. Therefore, in Article 33(5), for reasons of legal certainty, it should explicitly specify whether a decision establishing the number of points of an administrative act or not constitutes a solution. We believe that it is not and should not be an administrative act because, otherwise, it would provoke a large number of administrative disputes and pave the way for the Administrative Court to finally give evidence of a legal examination. Finally, the Independent Club for Croatia supports the purpose of changes and improvements in the new legislative proposal, calls on the ministry, since it is the first reading to accept our remarks, and of course I am sure, when, after the second reading, there will be amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92798	Thank you. In front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state, assistant, chief of staff, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction of the draft Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination itself and what the State Secretary told us at the beginning of the introduction, so this law regulates the conditions for the admission of trainees to judicial bodies, duration and... training practices and conducting the professional training itself for law enforcement and public notary practitioners, as well as lawyers with completed appropriate degree of legal study intending to approach the conduct of a judicial examination and the application procedure itself, the method of laying down, the evaluation of the same and the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Changes themselves, i.e. The law came into force on 1 January 2009, so it is precisely during this period of about 8,9 years that it is ideal to see all the shortcomings identified in practice itself, normally to comply with other regulations adopted during this period of almost a decade. The relevant items to be highlighted regarding this draft law in the field of law enforcement within judicial authorities should be made possible to carry out exercises in administrative courts and the obligation of trainees registered in other courts and other state attorneys to conduct certain times of their exercise practices in administrative courts. Another amendment and emphasis is on the need to ensure the conditions for passing a judicial examination to a wider circle of persons due to limited employment opportunities for trainees, and this famous professional training is introduced in order to obtain the conditions for accession to this 18-month test. Also known as volunteering and prescribing the same mandatory prior vocational education of all candidates through the judicial academy itself. As regards the prescribing of alternative conditions for accessing this exam, the same proposal would regulate, meaning all persons, i.e. all lawyers outside the judicial bodies of the attorney's office and of the public records who have to meet the conditions for the practice itself, but also the years of working in the legal departments to go to law school education and then to the judicial exam itself. As for the procedure itself and the appearance of the oral exam, it is important to emphasise the importance of strengthening the representation and importance of EU law as a sixth case in the oral exam, but I think it is necessary to stress that and only the public consultation of this bill by the lawyer's association at the Croatian bar of attorneys has given a number of proposals and objections to this bill before the public consultation itself. Some proposals have been adopted, the other ministry has not yet included in this bill, but I think they are extremely important and that we definitely need to draw attention to them and that we should welcome the very involvement of interested groups, especially associations representing persons and lawyers, to whom this is of particular and very important importance that they engage at an early stage of lawmaking and make their comments. As far as these comments are concerned, we know and we all have someone who has passed the judicial exam, we know how stressful it is for every young lawyer, how much it can cause problems and some side effects themselves, and how expedient it is when it's being passed, so it's a good thing that after 8.9 years we start with this very proposal that will definitely facilitate the passing of such a difficult exam, but normally there are little opportunities for us to even improve this proposal and that we may, in some way, definitely make it easier for our fellow lawyers to pass the judicial exam more easily and more quickly and ultimately, have a nice memory of the same. Since I'm not going to answer in an individual debate, I'm going to mention a few suggestions from both the association and my own that wouldn't be bad for us to think about and comment on. You should definitely consider counting on the already done internships of persons who were in law enforcement and interrupted it, moved later to colleges in the state service not to start with the very conditions of the beginning. In the part of Article 17, it may be necessary to take into account the fact that the Chamber of Lawyers itself, has its own academy to be used, in the form of education, to go to the judicial exam itself. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 30. It is not disputed to add 6 items and to strengthen this European dimension and to strengthen the exam itself and the European law supplement itself. But we should also point out that at this point, with 5 cases, the judicial exam itself can last for 4-5 hours, by introducing 6 more and adding stress to the candidates, and it would probably take up to 7-8 hours, so it would definitely take the ministry, along with colleagues who are in the committees, to talk a little bit and see that the process is partially shortened, not to throw out the case itself, but to see how best and within the shortest time, without further problems and stress, to do that oral exam. In Article 20 itself, I believe that paragraph 6 is indicated by this regular, i.e. the meeting of the Minister and the Examining Committee, which is here in the proposal once a year, may also increase to 2 times. It is precisely doing frequent changes in the test matter, but also for agreements on co-ordination and the very uniformity of the practice of the examination process, which I think is a particularly important and worst thing when the two candidates come out and have different criteria and different criteria in the course of the judicial examination from individual colleagues. As far as art is concerned. 27th regulation of the written examination itself, the proposal was further before the consultation itself, that with these three actions, the subject, i.e. The trainer chooses a third store, possibly from a work, administrative or commercial law, according to one of the preferences, in which he performed the exercise, which would also make it much easier to get out on his own. You're in. 30 where it's regulated, when it comes, i.e. When there will be an oral part of the exam, it stands, where it should be classified, that no later than two months, from the very written part, there will be an oral exam. As far as art is concerned. 31. and the number of votes that we have heard earlier, in this debate, definitely, should go in favors, to colleagues of young lawyers, although the number of votes has been shared, should be included, that the oral part is definitely supported and that, in that case, it is considered to be laid. All in all, an extremely good shift, along with some of these tiny finesse that can still be changed, I think that with the effect of this bill, definitely our colleagues, young lawyers and trainees will be very pleased and that they will probably be less stressed on the judicial exam. Thank you, HDZ, I support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92800	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelj, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92801	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear State Secretarys with Associates, GLAS Club and HSU will not object to the adoption of draft law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial exams. It's not an area of our own, too much of our interest and understanding, but we're always trying, what's the law in question, to observe it through what we know about it from practice. If we believe that if you suggest it, this is how it's supposed to be arranged, it's that simple, and we'll support it. After all, if there is something nomotechnical to redecorate or correct this law, also, in the first reading, therefore, we have, too, plenty of time, if we were to notice that something is unarranged. What I'm afraid of here in this story is, in a way, to sort of clear up that thing, whether all the trainees are in this activity. I consider the activity broader, not only in the judicial bodies and in the judicial exam, but I also consider the trainees, public notaries and lawyers, whether in some way this position is relative to others, and others are engaged, whether there is a difference in their treatment, i.e. in their work and their activities, in this exercise procedure. Because I'm saying, I'm sure, I don't know, there's still state institutions at stake here, and in this case, public notebooks and lawyers are doing the same for a certain amount of money, so I guess the trainees are doing a lot harder than in this case, so I don't want them to go easy in the same activity, although there are always such opportunities in life and there are different ways to one end, but I don't like to have them sort of, legal suggestions to my favorites over the other. I believe that this is not the case here, or that everything is fine, but that's all I've mentioned, given that I've seen it from practice, from what we see, what surrounds us. So, to repeat, I won't be long, I won't repeat what my colleagues said about the controversial articles of the law, because it doesn't make sense to repeat myself, but I'll say once again, we're not against, or we're going to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92802	Thank you, too. In front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92803	It's the same wording again and say hello to everyone who did. So, in principle, we think that the law makes certain shifts for the better and I would say conditionally we will support it at this stage and then depending on the changes it is or not will see what happens next. I'll speak on two levels. The first one is actually one important thing and that's that even by this law we don't actually say what we want from judicial practitioners. What are they? So we have people we pay from the budget to prepare for a judicial exam and for which there's nothing in the courts and in the state's attorney's office, come on, there's something in the state's attorney's office but there's actually no work in the courts. Theirs, they get paid to get ready for justice. And it's, yeah, I can't work, I can't take part in making decisions, I don't work means concrete writings, I know it never happens. Volunteering is good, and that's something I welcome back. And that's the right way. But generally, we have people with whom we give them the opportunity to practice, get ready, which is good. They're getting into the system, but we don't have a elaborate system as far away as we can with them. So you've finished your practice, you've reached some kind of justice, and now what? So, in my opinion, we need to think in principle about finding training and, when it's paid, let it be paid, similar to that in law enforcement, but that something concrete is done for it. You're the only one training for a specific job, you're entering the system, and that can be your first step if you've even entered the system. This is how we actually just people who are very often unemployed at that stage move into unemployment in one small second phase. And that's something that we need to think long-term about what the role and position of the trainees is. I know, you'll answer when it does, but I'm saying it's something that we haven't worked out in principle and we haven't found the right place for them. As for the alterations, not to advocate any lobby here, but I really don't see any reason why lawyers should go to the Judicial Academy. What's the reason for that? If you compare success in the courts so far, nothing was worse than this other one. So why would someone who's been successful now have to do something else that doesn't mean anything to him? Because they weren't more successful, so now we tell them now you have to go through it, so you'll have better grades, better results, they won't have, because they've generally had better results than these. I mean, you have that in statistics. And that's something I really don't see any reason to mean you guys are burdening people with something else completely pointless. You've got a bar, she's got her own, she's training people. If anyone wants to, give him a chance, let him pay, let him go to the Judicial Academy as far as I'm concerned, if he thinks it'll be easier to pass but it doesn't have to be binding, it should be a thing on the market. This is how you oblige people to go to an extra education that means nothing. Because in practice so far, those who didn't go to it had had better results than those who went. So what? It's something I think the system is bringing back. It's clear to me that people who are in juvie want to do a little bit more work, so more fees, etc., which is legitimate. But don't think of just one interest. You as a ministry must take everything in interest. My advice, if I may give you, just give us for the next reading, a comparison of the results of the lawyers who didn't go to the judicial academy for education and those who did. So let's see if these justice guys are much better. As far as I know, if they are, here I am withdrawing this remark immediately. But if they're no better, then give it up because you're going to be burdened and you're going to be financially burdened without any need. And then we'll all be told that as a society, the state is actually imposing a kind of new imposition. For what? If the thing works right now. So that's one of my perhaps basic, basic remarks where we actually want to empower one body that has never been involved in the training of training and there was no reason. Because people who weren't that trained didn't have bad results, they had quite good results. So think about it, there's no need. This thing, repairs, etc., that's great. I'm sorry for not thinking or thinking, so it didn't go one step, we did think about it, and we took the first step to solve the written means by computer, etc., but I think if we want to move to the end and do it, you should objectively introduce a system of written exams a, b, c, d that corrects, questions are dragged out of the computer, the computer corrects these questions. Whoever passed goes to the commission, who didn't pass, can't go to the commission. And the commission only decides on the evaluation. And you can only say that there is no human factor in exams. Americans who are much more verbal than us, so all their debates are much more verbal than we are, they have only a, b, c d, they have no oral examinations for the judicial ones, at all, so if they do so, why don't we at least this first phase that you in this way, means completely objectively eliminate those who can't even go out on the lips, why they don't satisfy us. So that's a, b, c, d, corrects the computer. And you have the results immediately reported, no one's nervous about waiting long enough. Whoever passed goes on oral, who didn't pass goes on. In many college classes, you have such a system. And he's good, he's objective. No one can object to this love, this one has agreed, this one hasn't agreed because these stories always go, whatever committee it is, it's not, it's always going, and when the question is raised, it's always going, etc. This is completely objective to you, make a fund of questions, I can never leak because they come out at that moment, you get in front of yourself on your laptop or you fill in on your computer, it's filled, solved, corrected, you go, you didn't go another time. The Commission would then play another role, she would give that assessment and she could actually gain weight then and then some of the later stages of the exams, etc. We can arrange differently because then the judicial officer could get on the greater demand, and then it would mean more to you how much you got there. And that would simplify the whole system. So Croatia in everything, wherever, has to move to such a system, an objective system, when you don't have a man it's perfect. And wherever we did it, so you know about the selection of the case, with anything in the judiciary, it works better than when it chooses a man. Think about this, technical possibilities you have, absolutely technical possibilities, would send a message that we're all in favour of more objective criteria together. So these are some things where you can still work, you can improve. Let's say colleagues, I've seen from the bar, there's a higher involvement of a lawyer in the exams, and that's what needs to be taken away from me. Because that too should be more proportionate to where people come from and what profession they go to. And whatever they say to me in the judiciary, closely looking at the courts and the state's attorney's office, there's no room for new people. People don't need to have the illusion that they're going to get a lot of employment in judicial bodies. We are now a country with surpluses and judges and state lawyers, by statistics, not ours, the Europeans. And it's not real, and by the Constitution we have extended that people work until 70, don't forget, by the Constitution we said that people work until 70, it's not real that there's going to be room for young people, very little will open up, very little, there's no room. The numbers will necessarily have to be reduced. And what we've been discussing earlier is a misdemeanor, a merger. Well, with each of those mergers, you'll have less room. You don't need it. And that's something we're going towards. We are now, let's not forget, in Europe, I think we are the first, we were second behind Slovenia, by the number of judges per population, if it's not good when you're in Europe first by such criteria. So in that system, this whole training system, the entrance, should be sent to me a different message, there's just no room. We train people, we perfect them, they invest time, they invest money, and the work gets less and less. So my proposal is, in general, to edit the trainees' internship in a way that really does something, to objective the judicial exam to the extent that the more the machine decides, and the less the man and think long-term about the needs we have. We would do well with a second reading if you gave us as much as you can see that places will be opened, it is known how many people are going to retire, how long it will take, etc. I mean, it's something that's good for the public. People even when they choose college, when they choose what they're going to do, to know what the perspective is. No, we're gonna do something, and there's no room, it's not gonna open for 10 years. So we live in a small country that needs to reduce the state structure everywhere, so both in the judiciary and in places, it will necessarily be less and less. So these are some of the principles that you need to think about, what you're going to decide your thing, of course in which direction, these things might mean a little bit more shift, what you're doing is good, I say in principle we can support with some of the objections that I've said, but I'm saying, please, it would be nice to give the numbers and think long-term where we're going. What does the trainee even mean? Is he just training as a judicial officer and then what? Or we give him a job and get him into the system. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92804	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Grmoy's turn in front of the Advocacy List Bridge Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92805	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In relation to the draft Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial examination, it should be pointed out that the Bridge has regulated this matter in 2 laws, the Law on trainees in judicial bodies and the Law on the Judicial Examining, and in this case should be done. The judicial exam applies to all lawyers who meet the requirements, and the trainees are in judicial bodies and they are something else and they have nothing in common in principle, except that the trainees also pass the judicial exam. These two laws we have prepared and will be in public debate in a very soon time, here we will highlight a few differences and details between our views and I will present essentially this proposal where we have done some sort of, or proposed some things to better edit this matter through legal texts. According to this proposal for a law, Article 9 states that training practice takes 2 years, i.e. 24 months, while Most thinks this is a short internship for a quality legal basis and should be extended to at least 30 months. This is not just an increase from number 23 to 30, so Mostov's draft law on trainees in judicial bodies in Article 3 determines that the training practice takes 30 months and thus the distribution of work by various departments is much more high quality. Furthermore, one issue that has been missed in the right way is the issue always being fought in the judiciary. Examining committee for the judicial exam. In the proposal of the Mosto, before the appointment of members and alternate members of the examination committee, the Minister of Justice will ask the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Attorney General, the President of the Croatian Bar Association, the President of the Croatian Public Note Chamber and the Head of the other relevant bodies for a reasoned proposal from the candidate, and shall make a public invitation to show interest to all interested candidates who meet the conditions. As the decision is made on who will now be the interrogator, it is, of course, made by the halls and among the chosen caste. Against such a MOST proposal, many currents or interest groups rebelled when MOST was in government because it was essentially a member of the examination committee, so that position reserved only for a narrow group of people. However, we believe that the examination committee and those who question young lawyers should be rotated, and above all that the appointment process should be more objective and transparent. That's why I point out here that it starts to invest in more transparent and flexible mechanisms when it comes to a judicial exam. As for the works of the law relating to the passing of a judicial examination, both written and oral, we also have a few objections. Article 27 of the Law provides that the written part of the judicial examination consists of the production of three written tasks in the field of civil, criminal and administrative law based on a specific case file. This has in practice proved to be a very bad and extremely unobstructive model. The candidates never know why their verdict got 7 out of 10 points in one interrogator, and 10 out of 10 in the other. There is no clear model for correcting the action. In fact, we are asking how it is possible to assess the verdict objectively and realistically because the action consists of writing a verdict. The criteria to be handled by the surveyors are not transparent and the candidate can receive an explanation for the assessment. Unsatisfactory assessments result in a fall in the judicial exam and precisely because it is such a strict elimination criterion, the written part should be completely changed. In the MOST's proposal, the written part consists of making two written tasks but is not a verdict but a task of knowledge or the ability to reason and conclude on the basis of certain legal acts, situations, cases, etc. MOST's bill of law stipulates that an oral examination of each candidate can take up to 2 hours, Article 23, which is where it happens so we have a situation where when candidates faint, they are consumed by stress, etc., and these are things that should definitely be changed and we should do so within our proposal that we put here and I believe they will come to debate, propose. Here are some remarks that we have because the differences with what the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92806	Now it's in front of the IDS, PGS and RI, Mr Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI, I would like to refer to the draft Law on trainees in the judicial bodies and the judicial exam. At first, we must say that I am under the impression that it is only a matter of embellishing the existing law and that the new legal solution will not change the passing of the judicial exam more significantly. But as for obtaining the conditions for passing a judicial exam, there is a change for the better that I welcome. It is a good thing that the new legal solution of a person with completed study of the rights employed by the state administration, the units of local and regional (regional self-government) and legal persons are no longer subject to access to the exam with the necessary years of work and to practice in a 9-month court. It was really almost inexplicable for such persons because we don't know how an employee of his, during working hours, would attend and debates in court and we all know that the discussions are held in the morning and on the working day. That is why we welcome a change that will greatly facilitate the passing of a judicial examination to those persons who are not employed in the law office and in the public record office as well as in the judiciary. When we talk about the judicial exam, we will all agree that this is probably the most difficult state exam in Croatia, which consists of passing a written part of the exam that lasts for as long as 3 days and every day for 8 hours, and then in taking an oral exam that averages 5 hours. As for the change compared to the current law, I would set out the next one. The applicable law consists of 5 groups of subjects and the new legal solution will no longer consist of 5 but of 6 groups of subjects. In addition, the way the score of the written exam is changed in such a way that instead of the previous 30, it is now possible to obtain a maximum of 15 points in writing, while in the oral part instead of the previous 70, it is now possible to obtain a maximum of 85 points. The question that I'm asking myself is, is this going to make this, like, hard exam even harder anyway, or is it going to be a lot easier? I think it's gonna be harder. What about the change, as far as the oral part of the exam is concerned, is a positive option for the oral exam if the candidate fails to satisfy one group of questions and the other 5 satisfys. This will certainly help the candidates greatly not to have to go back to the written part of the exams but only to the oral part and only one group that they did not meet on the previous deadline and that is certainly positive. What I think should certainly have been included in the law is that candidates are granted a written exam, so that in the event of dissatisfaction in the oral part of the exam, the next time the candidate does not have to re-access to the written work but only by mouth. It really doesn't make sense that someone has multiple access to the written part of the exam. It is that candidates who approach a judicial exam are under extreme stress, because it is not just a test, it is also a matter of living existence, because it is a matter of taking a judicial exam, many candidates, that depends on keeping a job. If employers, in the event of a fall in the judicial exam, keep them at work, this means that they will have to stay out of the workplace, again for 3 days, during the course of the course of the course, the written part of the exam. This way certainly doesn't suit candidates or employers. I therefore ask the Proposer to consider, until the second reading, the possibility of acknowledging the written examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92808	Thank you very much. We move on to individual debates, the first one has Mr. Marko Šimić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92809	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honored State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Law on Law enforcement and judicial examination, was adopted in 2008, 2009 already showed the need for certain amendments to this law, and it is important to highlight at the very beginning, that the conditions are governed by this law, for the reception of trainees in judicial bodies, the duration and programme of practice, and the way professional training is conducted for law enforcement and public notary practitioners, as well as lawyers with completed graduate university, i.e. integrated undergraduate and graduate university law studies, which intend to access judicial examinations. The application procedure shall also be determined, as well as the programme, the method of laying down and evaluating the judicial examination. We often talk about prenuptiality in Croatia, we are talking about too many regulations, which also lawyers themselves can hardly follow, and right here at the beginning I would like to express as a young lawyer and pleasure, which this matter regulates by one law, rather than by a number of special laws, because this way in a revised systematic way, we can find, in fact, all legal provisions from a particular area, which we are interested in. After a little over 8 years of application of this law, a new legal solution has been approached, due to the lack so far established in practice, the need to improve certain legal solutions, but also to comply with the regulations, which came into force after the adoption of the law in 2008, i.e. 2009 in the context of the inclusion of this law in the agenda, at the beginning of the summer, I spoke with many colleagues of young lawyers, whose question is of some professional and vital importance, and I must admit that my colleagues are well-advised, related to the proposed legal solutions, which are proposed by this bill. They welcome, many of these solutions, and I will later in my presentation, list which are, however, a few thoughts, i.e. a few points that I would look back on and perhaps encourage thinking, that in another reading or reading these parts might be updated. I am pleased that you have recognised the administrative courts and the importance of administrative courts, so that trainees who are employed by judicial authorities, especially courts, have the possibility and obligation to do part of their traineeship, i.e. to do so in the administrative court. As far as volunteering is concerned, I am pleased that it is now also put into one framework, which is now called this proposal of the law of vocational training, persons who have not had that happiness or have had different living circumstances and have not entered the system of exercise, with judicial authorities. It is good that they have the opportunity to do professional training for 18 months. In court and therefore, I welcome that part anyway. Therefore, in some public debates and in these contacts, there are often gaps in some earlier proposals, and this is an unequal and relatively long duration of mandatory previous training, for different categories of trainees, i.e. lawyers, which are also a restriction on access to the judicial examination. By this proposal of the law, these criteria have tried to level those criteria and it is defined professional education, which is mandatory for all trainees and accessors to the judicial exam, except for the trainees in the judicial bodies, who were the only and possibly able to meet the process of judgment. And I believe that this decision, that the political academy and that professional education, therefore, at the judicial academy, is limited, therefore, to the heart, from those 150 hours mandatory, to 60 compulsory hours, to the weight of the pan on that written part of the judicial exam, because it is extremely important. Because young people, who work as trainees, in law offices, and even in the state’s attorney’s office, rarely have an opportunity, or, rarely, to participate in the decision - making process, that is, by assembling them. So this part of 60 hours is mandatory and the focus on that written part of the exam is extremely good. As far as this law is concerned, the work of the examination committee is being arranged, a specific framework for the area of one oral whole of European law is being recognised in this legislative proposal, as one whole, for the oral part of the exams, which has not so far been the case, but has been distributed in other parts, and will now be a precisely defined area from which the trainees, i.e. the people on the judicial exam, will be able to get a question, and in this way we will also facilitate their preparation for this whole. As for some other benefits, which the trainees will receive from this bill, it is certainly a correctional deadline, I have a lot of colleagues, who have had that accident, to get some kind of question, which they have not given a good enough answer to and have not satisfied in the field of one whole. In this way, such people will be allowed to pass this judicial exam in a kind of easier way, and in any case I welcome a provision which, therefore, in this part of the jurisprudence exam, recognises the results achieved in the written examination from, in the judicial exam. If we finally sum up this legislative proposal, I must admit that it is good, that we are going towards improving certain conditions, therefore, for young people – the trainees, and I am sure that this law will also raise the quality of the preparation of young people, and hence the quality of their work later when they come to responsible responsibilities and responsibilities, therefore, in judicial bodies and as a lawyer in law offices because we are obliged to provide the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with a quality, fair and well-organised judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92810	Thank you, too. And in the end, Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. One of my colleagues' lawyers said after he passed the bar exam that he would no longer be in charge of the boat. And all of us here who passed the judicial exam know why he said that because in my career from primary school to postgraduate studies, I didn't meet anything that could compare to passing a judicial exam. From the amount of matter you have to prepare, to the stress that leaves it on you because in the end line, you are now going back to work among your colleagues who are, say, in a community that is a little smaller than Pula, everyone knew that you went to a judicial exam and now you come back on Tuesday or Wednesday and I didn't pass. That's why, when I talk about taking a judicial exam and practicing, I have one, how do I say, personal moment in all of this and it's hard to separate when I'm going to talk like a politician, and when I'm going to talk like someone who's sympathetic to people who's going to have to get into all of that. But let's take order as it is laid out in the law. The insight into entering the exercise in the judicial bodies. Take a look. Law school 50%, exam 40%, interview 10%. Compare this only with the conditions for coming to the place of the judicial officer. That's where we cut the conversation to 5%, you know. The State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, the Constitutional category, 11 members, among other things in that examination committee, sits on judges of the Supreme Court, or deputy state attorneys, parliamentary representatives, two professors who choose all law schools, we give them 5%, here we give a commission 10%. It is not harmonised and should be considered. I'd be happier if we could get back at the state's attorney's council and the state's judgment council to 10%, but I'd like you to think about it. And now we've had, I'm sorry that my colleague Jelkovac isn't here, and now we've had a situation because we know that when he shows up in the future, we won't be able to make a fair solution precisely because of that restriction that was reduced by the state's attorney and state judge council to 5%. But let's get back here. So, a 40% exam, law school, five years of college, it's not like it's a school that I graduated from, but it's not an easy college. Five years of studies, a degree exam, or a master's degree, is now carrying 50%, and one exam is passed by people who have recently graduated from law school and who have been given some sort of grade and some sort of average grade, etc. Brings you 40%. I don't think this ratio is fair because keep in mind that the trainees are the ones who are just entering the system. So, it's about people who don't have experience because that's why they're going to practice, and we're not checking their practical knowledge, but we're just going to do one more review of the grade they got at law school, and we're giving you a campaign, and I'm telling you that from my experience because I've always been a campaigner at school, some campaigner who hasn't been allowed to work for five years to do it for a month or two, and then it goes better than someone who's quality, consistent, has worked hard for 5 years. Please consider that part. But also then I ask you to think exactly because of this difference, how much is really the point of getting those who are just entering the system just becoming trainees, in addition to the check we had from the fact that they got some sort of review of some kind of written background check. I think it would be enough to have a grade in law school, possibly if, for example, he was elected to court to question his own a little bit to force him to learn a little bit about the structure of courts or something that isn't sufficiently studied at law school, the Rules of Procedure and so on, and the rest of us leave talking and grading from college. That's what I'd like to ask you. However, we cannot consider apprenticeship just from this point of view, but we must view it as part of the system of appointment of judicial officials. And now, let me read to you how someone who went to law school becomes a state judicial officer. First, she has to graduate for 5 years, after which she has to pass the examination for entering the service because practically after these changes, those who are not in the system of the state attorney's attorney's office or of the pardoned courts, hardly being able to become judges or state lawyers, that is, the fact, she has to pass the exam for entry into the service, she has to intern 18 months, she has to pass through school, she has to pass a judicial exam that we said was one of the most difficult exams we have in the Republic of Croatia, then she has to be a consultant in the service where she was, whether it's the attorney's office or the judiciary, then she should go to a state school, and we know that she's not going to go to the state school, but she's just passing the exam, after which I mentioned and after that she's still going to talk to the state court. Doesn't it seem a little excessive to you and that you should consider how to simplify this system because if you saw after law school that someone would become a judge or a state lawyer taking three exams and all of them, they're complicated and difficult and then we come to what they're talking about, their evaluation, especially through the evaluation of judgments is a little questionable, a little doubtful. Because sometimes someone doesn't have to like someone's language expression, but legal reasoning might be great. And he's going to get a 7th or 8th on the trial instead. And what's important for the judiciary and for the future lawyer is that language expression, that clarity in the statement, and you can't do that after 18 months of practice. It's been grinding for years, and that's why people first become judges of municipal and county and then eventually, at the end of the Supreme Court. And now I'm going to relate to something that my colleague Simic was saying, and I agree with your debate in the large part, and I love when we have opportunities in the House to conduct such discussions that are focused on expertise and not on politicizing. However, I disagree with one part. You're saying you're commending these 60 hours for practice law enforcement and at this judicial academy, it seems to me that he's listed there. When I was preparing for the judicial exam, the Croatian Bar provided us with a seminar for lawyers organised twice a year. But it was more than a seminar, it was a serious school for two weeks, but you start at 8:00 in the morning and you finish at 8:00 in the evening, 12 hours in two weeks. When summed up, we had some 140 school hours of seminars organised by the Croatian bar. And do you know why that's important? Not only is 140 hours more than 60 hours, not just because our seminars were held by Supreme Court judges, state lawyers, the most respected lawyers in Croatia and some law professors, but because of the fact that it was absolutely free of charge for lawyers. You know how much pay she was at the time of law school? 3000 kuna. I couldn't afford 2 weeks in Zagreb and possibly still some kind of payment that Croatia's bar of law as an exercise in money that all lawyers pay through membership fees did not provide us with such a seminar. I would be much happier to ensure, instead of such an option, that they can, of course, be left to the judicial academy with the Croatian Bar of Law, the Croatian Public Chamber and other chambers, with the supervision of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Justice, which will approve their programme, that this programme meets what is necessary for such education to arrive so that these chambers do not continue to organise these seminars in the way they used to do so. Here's what I'd like to do, and I'm going to join what my colleague Milenić said, this is a shift, but I think we have a lot to do by the second reading. And I think if we do this and we work together, we build on these ideas, on all these discussions that we've heard today, that we can get one really good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92812	Mr. Simic has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92813	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grbin, I didn't mean to replicate because I really agree with the good part of your exposure. However, when I said these 60 hours so far, the law had set 150 hours for oral and written examinations, while the written part of the exam was determined to be actually a lecture for, or work on, three convictions at the Law Academy. If we take that, at the time of the judicial exam, it's a certain time for one verdict for 8 hours, that analogy gave me that that's 3 judgments per 8 hours, 24 hours which is 60 hours is still higher, so from those 24 hours that would result in some analogy and some logical conclusion from the previous bill, so I saw an improvement, and that's why I actually praised this part. And this law in no part prevents the chambers from continuing to hold some education and seminars.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92814	You know that after 20 minutes, the concentration is dropping, these are psychological topics already. I don't know how you lasted 12 hours. Did you have a lunch break back then? All right. [[We did.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92815	We did, we did, but you know where I worked and then That 12 hours wasn't the problem with going in what's called, to our seminar. [[/Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] I'm glad you opened this topic when you said three verdicts because I think it's something and I didn't, I didn't look back on it and I should have, I think that's something else we should talk about. The judicial exam does not prepare exclusively and only the judge. You cannot represent a whole series of cases unless you have passed a judicial exam, property cases and items over 50,000 kunas, etc., that I do not enter. You're getting ready for both the lawyer and the state's attorney, etc. I think we should consider whether we should remain solely judgments or perhaps it would be interesting to see how a colleague or colleague will write a complaint based on those files he has in the case. This could also show someone's legal knowledge and in some segments a good complaint is harder to write than a good verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92816	I'd give you 10 more seconds because I took that away from you. ... The closing statement has Mr. Martinovic, State Secretary. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92817	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. We're tired, I'll now confirm after all that indeed, a lot of colleagues have spoken who are the lawyers, who have laid down the judiciary and I'm one of those. And I really need to confirm that this is not about one of the hardest but certainly the most difficult exams in the Republic. And I laid it down a long time ago, over 30 years ago, so '88. To be honest, I think I'm still keeping the scripts and the papers that I was preparing back then, I guess, from some trauma that it won't have to happen again. But, therefore, I am glad that this debate went this way, so it was pleasant to listen. Not that you've praised us, you haven't exactly praised us, but you've all been, I'd say unquestionably well-intentioned. And those of us who have passed justice, you who have actually passed, you will understand me, none of what you have suggested is to reject. So take it for consideration and throw it away when you don't want to discuss it. What did we aim to achieve with this, therefore, law? Fix this sphere. And I believe that we primarily wanted what my colleague Milenić was saying about the trainees, so we wanted to give them a chance, so we wanted to enable the trainees to re-employ on the burden of the state budget without pay, so colleagues talk about pay, without pay, we will pay them contributions, health and pension, we will pay them material costs, the expenses they have to pay for coming to the workplace, but we will train them, they will pass the justice. It will be possible despite this fact that it is almost internal that there is no room for opening new ones except biological departures, new jobs in the judiciary... and we try to reduce that, we have a surplus per head relative to the EU average. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But these are young people who, if they weren't sitting at home. Perhaps some have gone as our youth leaves Croatia. After that judicial examination, we all who are lawyers, the practitioners know that both in the bank and in the insurance company, and also in foreign law firms and everywhere in Europe, so also in those judicial, judicial, legal needs of companies that will come here, so these people will be worth more, they will have a better chance, and that is one of the important reasons for us to give these people a chance, through this model. So we also wanted to arrange a way of investing in a judicial exam something better and better quality. And this when I said it was really me, and everybody said it was one of the hardest, most difficult exams, not just for lawyers, but for anyone in the Republic, then we tried and I'm happy to say that I've created that attitude to try to relax it a little bit for these people to wear a little less trauma than we did in this way. Although I'm not complaining, it was a long time ago. So, here we have made it possible to go to correctional, so that the writing is respected but unfortunately, unfortunately or, I would say we can't over-cut the criteria. So now that you're falling on one of those exams, of course you're going to go to repair and the writing isn't going to work. That's what you were saying, if you thought it was going down completely, I don't know if it was your goal, but I think we've left the possibility that the penitentiary doesn't go down if it falls on one of this group's exams. Whether this was supposed to be different, we're going to consider everything you've suggested and try to make the best of these clues, so in the best possible way to regulate this legal matter. And I've seen that you're all willing to suggest, help and we'll respect all of your thoughts, thinking and pre-amendments and of course in 2 readings you'll be able to give amendments concrete that we have no reason not to respect if we see that this institution improves in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92818	Thank you, too. But it's only a transitional thank you for having one replica of Mr. coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92819	The Secretary of State won't be angry with this replica because it's one question, so I'd like to ask you for an answer or a suggestion to think about. In view of this idea of training, i.e. volunteering whether these trainees will be able to apply a labour measure without establishing a working relationship because the work without establishing a working relationship was designed for this and was first applied to volunteering, or interning in the public service, and then extended the team elsewhere because it was a measure for which the funds were secured from the European Social Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92820	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92821	So I don't know how this matter was legally regulated without a working relationship. So here as you can see, there's a job internship going on here, and there's a pension and health payment on this idea. So that's it... Something different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And can I withdraw some funds that's the thing that we can all check with our Employment Service and see if there's room there? In any case, our idea is that I would say noble, well-meaning, so it's not our goal to narrow down, it's not our goal to do any protection than more young people do to get through this. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92822	Thank you very much. Noting that quantum physicists, psychoanalysts, neurosurgeons won't be mad at the so much appology of the legal profession we had today. I'm closing this debate. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. But I'd like to introduce you to what, the agenda points tomorrow. The first is, I think, to take up a lot of time, to propose a law on amendments to the Law on jobs and activities of spatial planning and construction is in the first reading. 2, 3 and 4 will be proposed to unite the proposal for a law on islands, the proposal for a law on assisted areas and the proposal for a law on mountainous and mountainous areas. The 5th and 6th points will also try to unite, propose, the Proposal for a Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act. Thank you. Have a nice and pleasant evening. The session was interrupted at 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-09-19-0.u92823	Proposed law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial exams, first reading, P.Z. No. 396. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on trainees in judicial bodies and judicial examination, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 102 for, 7 abstentions and 13 against the concluded conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
