ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86179	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We continue with the work of the plenary session with the agenda point: - Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2017. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The law on the right to access information. The discussion was conducted by the relevant Committee on Information, Information and Media, and by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered an opinion. I ask the applicant to report to the Commissioner for Information Mrs Anamarie Musa to give us an explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86180	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. Here is the report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2017 in accordance with Article 60(4) of the same law. As you know, the Law on the right to access information is governed by the Constitution guaranteeed by the right of citizens to access information from public authorities, local authorities, public administration, public sector, public sector, and they are prescribed by a series of obligations for those public authorities relating to the publication of information on websites, providing information at the request of users, private sector citizens and others, the publication of open data in accordance with the EU Information Reuse Directive, and ensuring the public the work of the college bodies and the involvement of citizens in the adoption of regulations and general acts. The implementation of the obligations by 5,859 public authorities as well as the protection and promotion of the right to access information, together with its office, which last year numbered 12 people or civil servants, which was three times more than when we started 2014, and the amount of funds spent including project funds and donations amounted to slightly less than 3 million kuna. Given that the report is quite extensive and it is accompanied by a summary I will only present here the main findings of the law's implementation, and the rest we can specifically discuss through the debate. Therefore, public authorities are obliged to appoint a person who will be in charge of ensuring the implementation of the law in the body or the establishment of a website, as well as the submission of an annual report, at a level of four fifths and about 80% respectively. I believe that this is relatively good because those who do not comply with these obligations are mostly small bodies from fire companies, veterinary stations and others who are really facing the problem of capacity, so that, basically, our list of public authorities includes from the Croatian Parliament and the Government and ministries across cities to such small units, it is expected that there is a different level of compliance with the obligations laid down in the law. A trend in growth over the past few years has been observed in relation to the publication of information on the Internet. Therefore, information is increasingly being published on the websites, in particular those on public procurement, as well as the work of the body. However, where all public authorities do not publish data or a good part does not publish, these are data on grants, sponsorships and donations, as well as data on membership and the work of formal bodies and decision-making from those bodies. So these two sets of data are most often and most sensitive as to the possibilities of different illicit influences or possible corrupt actions, and therefore we try to make bodies say so, make them commit and execute them. As for open shoes, the amount of data on websites is growing in an open format, however, there is no systematic access to the problem starting from the highest levels of government to the smallest units. Croatia is currently 14th in the EU to be mature for open data, which I think is good. We are falling into a group of best trends, but of course without continuing investment in efforts in this area we will not be able to take that position in the coming years. What we have seen as crucial or that I consider as a key problem as regards data publication is the weakness of the information management process in the bodies themselves. In large bodies, this information management process really suffers serious problems, and in small bodies, due to insufficient capacity, there is simply no systematic access to all those data created in a particular public authority and are automatically published unless they are protected by regulations such as personal data or classified data. There is also a lack of cooperation within the body, we often have, we are actually meeting that the problem is that there are certain conflicts at personal levels which, unfortunately, then lead to non-compliance with the legal obligations. As to what may be the biggest problem, and this is a lack of culture of transparency, we can say that through a large number of educations, promotions and collaborations daily with public authorities we have worked intensively on this and we can actually say that a certain network of people who are very well in charge of information in public authorities are aware of the need for transparency, the importance of informing citizens. However, what still needs to be done is the formation of a leader especially at local level, that in fact all that is done is that one day, tomorrow, the day after or one year may become public what has been witnessed and numerous, unfortunately scandals and affairs in Croatia not since yesterday, but continuously. There's also a difference between the body, and here's one of our research has shown that, let's say, the level of information published in Sibenik-Knin County and its local units is 71% while in Požega 58%, let's say there were 5 counties and everything in that border, so here's the best and the worst. The Institute of Public Finance's research also showed that the average assessment of fiscal transparency in 2017 was 3.1, meaning a threesome and that three years ago it was 1.8, means it was actually not nearly enough, or in fact not enough, yes. So this shows that especially at the local level where one of the most, in fact, is a key point of relations between citizens and public administration and the public sector and authorities, so that this should also work to strengthen capacity and resources so that these bodies can meet the needs of the public. As far as the public is concerned, on the one hand there is a Croatian Parliament with its maximum openness, although, in fact, the openness of the Committee's work still needs to be discussed in the future, especially with regard to the recording of the sessions. And on the other hand, we have certain cases where public authorities don't allow the media and the public to access the sessions when they should be. Of course ours, so the general principles of the public are such that all sessions are open to the public unless the public needs to be excluded from the law of defined reasons. As regards public involvement in the adoption of regulations, rules, general acts and strategic documents. Progress has also been observed. One of the reasons is the establishment of an online e-consultation system that is now recognized in public. What we are recording is the constant increase in the number of counseling sessions being conducted. And also the length of the consultation, given that the law incorrectly determines or says that consultations are conducted in a 30 - day rule. So 2 years ago that duration was actually on average 8 days which was not enough for any more serious inclusion and decision-making and last year was 19 days. Here we are now in 2018 recording 24 days, so there is progress. One of the reasons for slow inclusion, in fact, the limitations of this inclusion deadline, is that in fact not well-planned regulation process is not well-planned, so it is late, and then the time of consultation is actually shortened rather than to speed up the process or better organise work. Compared to citizens' rights, I would still like to say, so citizens' objections are respected in 25% of cases. This is therefore explicitly stated on the example of e-consultation. So one quarter of all objections are observed but what is evident is that there are a large number of consultations, i.e. acts on which no one has any objections, at least at that time of adoption. So the public isn't getting enough involved. I think it is up to the public authorities that when they prepare an act to take certain steps that those to whom this act will apply or who will benefit from it or be obliged to put them in such a position to animate themselves into the decision-making process. As for the request, perhaps most interesting, I must say that according to the data provided by the public authorities, so something of them, about 4 thousand received 226, and in 85% of the cases they gave information, i.e. to enable access to information in whole or in part. And the rest of the more than 4,000 cases denied access to information. Now, we could determine whether it was justified in a third of those cases since we got 1172 complaints which is 85% more than in 2016. One large part, 40% of these complaints filed by one user against the judicial authorities. What our decisions have shown by appeal is that when the authorities refuse to access citizens' information in 4 out of 5 cases, they do so unlawfully, or unfounded by law, so they are wrong. This continues to indicate the need for strengthening, i.e. continuing to educate and develop the expertise of public sector employees, not only in the field of the Law on the right to access information but also in all the rules concerning information, so to speak, the rights and in particular the general administrative procedure. So my general assessment of the development, i.e. the application of the Law on the right to access information that there are certain shifts, are visible on a daily basis and I think that, in particular, as regards proactive publication, they are seen by users. Many users are also satisfied because they receive information in due time and what actually comes to us and what comes to the public are those cases where that information is denied. So by these numbers, that's about 15% of the cases. What is crucial, therefore, is the development of value, transparency and openness in the daily work of public administration and public authorities, so it is not only the obligation of an information officer but, above all, the head of the public authorities, especially at local level and then of all other public sector employees, which can actually be the result of the continued and systematic efforts to develop professionalism in the public service and to increase efficiency. Here at the end of the 46 recommendations that I highlighted, I did not actually analyse which of the recommendations were fulfilled in relation to last year when there were 28 of them, given that some of the more recommendations for continuous work were on certain issues but those 5 I would like to highlight here, given that they are generally normal, so I will refer them to them myself, so it is on the one hand to join the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents, Croatia is now the President of the Council of Europe. One of the 4 objectives is the fight against corruption, and I believe that joining this convention since 2009, Croatia has not joined, would be a very important step and, in fact, an indication that we are seriously thinking about curbing corruption. The same applies to the Protocol with the European Charter of Local Self-Government on Public Participation in Local Affairs. Therefore, the 2012 Protocol, adopted by the European Charter, as you know, the European Charter has been ratified in the Croatian Parliament, is part of the Croatian legal system, however, and the protocol requires that certain measures be taken at the local level, open to the public, listen to citizens and respond to citizens for their enquiries, but also to provide citizens and electronic services. So everything that actually makes it easier for citizens to live and actually communicate with their local authorities, so to speak. We also pointed out, as every year, the need to revise access with sanctioning for violations of the law, I am aware that there have been more discussions in the Croatian Parliament and in the working groups on the issue of the possibility of sanctioning public authorities. As you know, when the law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation was adopted, therefore GDPR, it was also a question of whether public authorities could be penalised. I personally consider not only a Commissioner but as a person who deals with this area of law, that access to the sanctioning of the public authority should be changed and that it cannot be arranged as currently governed by the law. In 5 years, we have succeeded in obtaining only six convictions for the elicitative violation of the Law on the right to access information and against natural persons who are no longer chiefs. So the point of sanctioning through the law of law enforcement is what it is. Our proposal is to sort out the possibility of sanctioning the public authority's body by punishing only the public authority's body, to abandon the idea of punishing the public authority's authority to transfer money from one basket to another because it is, in fact, a preventive measure and responsibility of the head for responsible management of funds. So if a leader is willing to pay fines from the budget of the local unit because he did not answer his citizens' questions, then it is his political and fiscal and all other responsibilities. As in other countries, simply to take on this good practice and to do so and therefore in this sense immediately and in relation to the Government's remarks on this report repeats this thesis and the one given by the Government does not actually see any other explanation except that it is written in the law now and that it is impossible to punish local units and bodies of the state administration and judicial authorities which is actually unacceptable from the aspect of this regulation and from the aspect of the needs of citizens. We also stressed the need to adopt an open data policy, as I said, 14th in Europe, but we won't be able to hold that position for long. We have made short progress here in a few years, we have only been a member since 2013, and we have already done so among the best, but unfortunately this is still based on the efforts of several enthusiasts in the Ministry of Administration, the Central Digital Office, the Commissioner for Information and several very interested employees in certain ministries and there is no systematic access and the Government must actually make sure that Croatia is not the only member who does not have an open data policy. Finally, the same applies to the Open Authority Partnership, 2016, expired the last Open Authority Partnership Action Plan, which actually represents the possibility that in a partnership relationship between governments, administrations, the civil sector, the private sector and the academic community it is working to open power to citizens. For almost two years now, Croatia has not brought forward a new action plan as we have been warned from the New York Central, so here I would like to urge that this action plan be adopted because so far it has shown very good results, given that many of the measures involved in transparency and conflict of interest have been implemented right through this plan. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86181	I thank the esteemed Commissioner for informing Mrs Anamari Musi. We have several replicas, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86182	I have a question, which is why, in your opinion, the Croatian Football Federation has not agreed on a question for journalists or for us parliamentary representatives who travel to the SP, I know that you will say that the HNS is not funded from the state budget, but it is an institution that finance both amateur sports and other parts of sport. Realising that infrastructure is bad, but I do not think such HNS policy contributes to the transparency of the institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86183	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. Answer, dear Mrs. Musa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86184	Yes, thanks for the HNS remark, and we mentioned it in the report. Unfortunately, despite the fact that, of course, we consider the HNS body to be a public authority, I think it's the information you have, however, we've launched several, tried to initiate several infringements, but because of what I've been saying, actually because of the procedural problems, we haven't done it. So, the HNS as well as several other sports alliances, I think there are about 30, as well as other sports bodies are public authorities and are obliged to comply with this law. We're also working on that... Yeah, that's what it's called, we can call them bonds... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, they are, legally they are, yes, bonds of the Law on the right to access information. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So it may not be the happiest name of the public authority, I don't know why it was so chosen in 2003, so in Slovenia they're called bonds, so there's no dispute about what the government is, which is not the government and there are also veterinary stations, so as well. So, HNS's body of public authority, unfortunately the Commissioner for Information so far had no means to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86185	I thank the honored Lady Anamaria Musa. Next, dear fellow Shucker, I beg you... Don't disturb the speaker. [[Intruder: not understood.]] Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86186	Thank you. Your Honor, Commissioner, so I must express my first regret that you have not responded to the competition, that we will only have one candidate which is not a good message at all. I think it also sent a message that this government has practically lost every trust and citizen and all of us in public competitions. We have had one situation with the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest, now we have one situation with this institution where you have made great efforts and I think you have improved practical transparency in general in Croatian society. What I would ask as a question, yesterday we were able to read in the Evening List that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs is preventing transparency and the fight against corruption because it has been revealed that it does not allow the publication of data on the previous official affairs of the current Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, which is accused of corruption in one play. There was nothing done by our president of the Parliament who was supposed to pass on that play to all MPs and what shows that this fight you started means there's no will at the top of the government to go that way. [[Attack Brkić: A colleague of Grmo, you've run out of time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86187	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I'm giving you a heads-up over time over and over again, and I warned you about that. Answer, Commissioner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86188	Thank you. As far as the election of Commissioners is concerned, the contest is repeated precisely because one candidate has applied, and it is possible, I agree with you, that general mistrust in institutions, not only, would not speak for itself, but the citizens of the institutions would be able to think that simply without any means or without some support, I cannot work on this position, and I can confirm from my perspective that this is possible. As far as the Foreign Ministry is concerned, here I am, unfortunately, also reading the case in the paper yesterday and I was actually disappointed that, despite constant education, on-line education, brochures, information is not able to remember, the Commissioner for Information comes forward. In this case there is absolutely no dispute that the work experience, professional qualifications, pays the person who works in the public service is a public matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86189	I thank you for your response to Commissioner Anamaria Musa. Before continuing, I welcome students and students of the Faculty of Transport and Traffic Sciences from Zagreb at the gallery. Welcome. Give it up! Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86190	Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Musa. I'm glad you denied some of the things that actually show the public about the bodies of the public authorities, their reports. You said you were working somewhere around 80%. On the other hand, there is also an opinion prevailing, and here we often talk in the Assembly about when this report comes that these bodies should be sanctioned by public authorities, as well as their leaders for not providing information or annual reports themselves. So I ask you how and how to do it and I draw your attention since I came from one such body, I'm going to tell you that one of the people, let's say a few dozen or hundreds of times, that we had a case in some body of public authorities to ask for information if they're related to other laws, then these are administrative procedures that cost the state a million to two million kuna. That's not a small amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86191	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Answer, Commissioner-in-Office, Ms Anamari Musa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86192	Thank you. Thank you. You've come up with two very important things. One is sanctioning. I said earlier that as far as sanctioning this system as it is now ineffective. We've tried to use it until now only really for cases when someone absolutely ignores our orders. So, unusual cases, we're always here to solve these situations that you mentioned together. Of course, someone will not be sanctioned for receiving 500 requests and cannot simply resolve them. So that's not what we're talking about. However, this is important too. There are situations of abuse of rights. We already have solutions where we have confirmed that some users abuse the right. However, these are really rare situations and, of course, there are some, especially at the local level of local units where this is happening and we are aware of it, but I say, we do not apply sanctions automatically. Each situation is specific and we are always there to discuss with the public authority the specificity of a particular case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86193	I thank you for your response to the honourable Commissioner, Mrs Anamaria Musa. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86194	Thank you very much. We are witnessing that the real owners of the companies in the Republic of Croatia do not have a register. As MOST, we have proposed a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Unfortunately, most of them didn't accept it, and for that, thank you, you supported it. So how can you explain that most of whose parliamentarians in the European Parliament support in their first reading, that the real owners of companies are not supported here. Because there is obviously a problem of corruption and crime in the Republic of Croatia, there is a problem that political parties finance, there is the problem of complete robbery and privatisation. And let the public know once again that most of them didn't want to open the register of real owners, that we all have information about who the real owners are, who has the custody accounts and who the ones who robbed the Republic of Croatia while they were killed for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86195	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer. ... Dear Commissioner Mrs Anamaria Musa. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86196	Thank you. As regards the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorism, that is to say, the application of the EU Directive on this, there was a legal question for the time being, and apparently the majority considered that since the directive does not require the creation of a register of real owners, this should not be done at this time. However, already next year it will be necessary to do so, so hopefully here we will also find out who really are the real owners of individual companies but before that I also hope to see in an open format a court register that shows how many companies are actually owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86197	I thank you for your response, Your Honor, to Mrs Anamari Musa. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86198	Thank you, Vice President. Commissioners, in your report as more significant decisions by the Commissioner for Information which should be made publicly available and which I absolutely agree with, you have also listed the list of HBOR loans and their users in the period 2014 to 2017. As one of the most significant rulings of the High Administrative Court, a list of HBOR credits and its users has just been re-listed. How you comment on the fact and what you intend to do with the HBOR persistently ignoring you, not only you but also ignoring the High Court rulings because it actually turns out that in Croatia above the decision of the Commissioner for Information and above the ruling of the High Administrative Court, which declares your decision to be legal is actually one bank. And normally every citizen of this country and I, as an agent, wonder what's going on in HBOR and who gets all credits if the HBOR insists on keeping public records... user? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86199	I thank my dear colleague Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Commissioner Anamari Musa's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86200	Thank you. As for a large number of procedures concerning the users of loans and guarantees from HBOR, we have brought in a number of solutions which were then confirmed by the High Administrative Court, however, in the last few cases the matter has stopped because the preliminary issue before the European Court of Justice has been initiated. We are not happy with such a solution, and we believe, but I will not go into it now, so what is our proposal that the law simply prescribes that the HBOR periodically reverses, it does not have to be the same time, but let's say in at least 2 or 3 years back, publishes data on the websites, so there will be no need to conduct these great procedures that are expending heavily on both our resources and our courts, and here is now the European Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86201	I thank you for your response to the honourable Commissioner, Mrs. Musa. We have another replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86202	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Commissioner, the right to access information is guaranteed to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and is detailed in the Law on the right to access information. This also means that the right of citizens to access information is protected in a certain way. We know that the right to receive information is cared for by the Commissioner as an independent body elected by the Croatian Parliament. The Commissioner's job is to accept complaints clearly, then to act on the concepts if something is not within the law and transparent and inspection supervision. How many complaints are citizens and what are the basic complaints?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86203	Thank you, dear colleague Kirina. The answer to Mrs. Musa's esteemed Commissioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86204	Shortly, as I said last year, there were 1172 complaints that compared to 22 thousand requests did not seem so much but nevertheless these complaints showed, or our decisions showed that in four fifths of the cases the bodies unjustly refused citizens access to information most often calling for the abuse of rights and protection of personal data. What's the problem now is that with the new personal data editing, so so-called. GDPR is a danger to be misunderstood and to begin to interpret that the name or last name or basic information about public servants is not public information, as this was this example mentioned around, which Mr. Grumoj mentioned regarding the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86205	I thank the esteemed Lady Amanaria Musa for her reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Is there any chance the government's representative would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev, please welcome Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86206	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. The European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms says everyone has the right to freedom of expression. This right includes freedom of opinion and freedom to receive and disseminate information and ideas without interference of public authorities and regardless of borders. Named by the Croatian Parliament of the Information Commissioners is an independent body, it is established by the Law on the right to access information with defined work and powers in order to protect monitoring and promote the right to access information as the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' rights and re-use of information. In addition, the Commissioner's competence is prescribed by the Environmental Protection Act with regard to the resolution of complaints on environmental information requirements and the Environmental Information Act and archives with regard to the resolution of complaints on requests for insight into archive materials. The task of the Information Commissioner is to protect, monitor and promote the right to access information and information within the meaning of the Law on the right to access information is any information owned by a public authority in the form of a document, record, file, register, regardless of how it is shown, written, drawn, recorded, magnetic, optical, electronic or any other record that the body has produced only or in cooperation with other bodies or obtained from another person and is created in part or in connection with the organisation and operation of the public authority. Such bodies are in Croatia 5859. Although the information commissioner's body has only been operating for 4.5 years, it has shown in a short time all the importance of the public authority's openness and has proved to be a good mechanism for controlling transparency and defending corruption in Croatia. Without transparency and openness of government and the entire public sector, it is not possible to solve social problems effectively. In a detailed report for 2017, the Information Commissioner shall indicate the activities carried out with a view to increasing the transparency of the public authority. Thus, public authorities are obliged to fulfil a series of obligations under the prescribed Law on the right to access information followed by the Commissioner for Information. Some basic obligations of the public authorities are; delivery of annual law enforcement reports, the Commissioner warns in the report that one-fifth of the public authorities do not deliver annual law enforcement reports. So the Municipality of Baska Voda, Cetingrad, Ceminac, Gornji Mihaljevac, Karlobag, Milna, Podgora, Pribislavac, Sucuraj, Škabrnja, Vinodolska and Zrinski Topolovac did not deliver or access the data delivery application according to the law and ignored a series of reminders and hastenings sent by the Commissioners. In addition to these municipalities, the minimum rate of compliance with the obligation to deliver the report is recorded in categories of companies and associations. It is mainly about bodies that do not have a designated information officer such as kindergartens, homes for older and powerless, museums and other cultural institutions, veterinary and municipal societies and tourist and fire departments where those bodies often misstate that they are not bound by law enforcement or lack the capacity to implement legal obligations. We therefore call on the Government, or the Resort Ministry, to take advantage of all legal capacity to monitor the legality of the work of these legal entities and municipalities until the Law on the right to access information is amended because the fact that the failure of the annual report is not foreseen as a specific basis for criminal sanctions. Proactive disclosure of information on websites is also one of the basic obligations of the public authority and enables citizens to inform about the work of their bodies and can be included in the decision-making process. In this way, citizens should in time have insight into their decisions, have insight into the draft rules for which consultation, session conclusions, competition notices, budget implementation or plan is carried out. They should be able to access information on grants, sponsorships, donations or other aids, obtain information on the percentages of public procurement, with accompanying documentation, information on public services and another set of options that enables proactive disclosure of information. The specific problem is that bodies shall carry out, to the minimum, the lists of beneficiaries and the amounts of grants allocated, donations, sponsorship and other assistance, thereafter, the conclusions of the session of adopted documents, as well as information on the work of formal working bodies and the answers to the most frequently asked questions and information on how to submit requests to citizens and the media. The law on the right to access information requires the obligation of the Authority to inform the public of the time of maintenance and the agenda of the meeting of the official bodies, the way they work and the possibilities of direct insight into their work, including information on the number of persons who can at the same time provide direct insight into the work of the public authority. Despite the legal obligation according to the data provided by 4,683 public authorities, a low level of proactive publication of the information needed to provide the public with work has been observed. Only 35% of the bodies publish the agendas of the session or session and the time of their maintenance and only 18% of the bodies publish information on the possibilities of direct insight into the work of the body. In 2017, the Commissioner for Information made an additional list of public authorities, which for the first time included local committees, urban districts and cotters, which units of local self-government set up by their statutes, so that citizens would directly participate in the decision-making process and on matters of local importance, which is one of the best ways to involve citizens in the life of the community. The report notes that 15% of the body does not have its own website, so we call on other government institutions such as Carnet and the Central State Office for the Development of Digital Society to assist these bodies and ensure rapid and quality access to websites, while respecting the guidelines of the newly adopted EU directives on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies. Public consultation in accordance with Article 11. The law on the right to access information must be implemented via the Internet to ensure participation as wide a circle of stakeholders as possible, where the authorities of the state administration are obliged to do so through the central national e-Construction portal currently used by more than 17,000 citizens. This is a consultation with the public, i.e. the implementation of internet consultation with the public in the adoption of laws, sublaws, strategic or planning documents and other acts where they are affected by the interests of the users, and should normally take 30 days. The data from the annual report show that the authorities of the state administration, agencies and other legal persons with public authority and other national authorities held their consultations in 2017 on average 19 days, representing an increase compared to 2016 when the deadline was on average 17,13 days and, respectively, compared to 2015 when they... The average duration was 7.62 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And yet significantly shorter than the prescribed deadline of 30 days. The main part of the presentation to the Commissioner, i.e. the non-compliance with the prescribed time period, in the implementation of the 30-day consultation, i.e. the complete absence of the public consultation, as well as the fact that applicants are increasingly aware of the insufficient quality of the response to their comments and suggestions by the consultants as a reason for submitting the presentation. How could you, for example? The Ministry of Finance, when assessing the impact of the new budget law or the Ministry of Administration, says that those laws will not have social, economic and other impacts on citizens when amending the Law on local and regional self-government in public consultation. E-consultation must not be a fig leaf for ministries where pro-forms are collected citizens' opinions, without genuine analysis and respect for constructive and possible solutions. Bridge of Independent Lists, supports Commissioner's proposal to approach Protocol No. 207 with the European Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe on the right to participate in local government affairs. The protocol provides... the signatories aimed at strengthening the procedures for inclusion in the consultation process, local referendums and petitions, strengthening the right to access information, setting up measures to meet the needs of vulnerable groups and the mechanism for complaints and proposals on the work and functioning of local self-government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the fundamental rights of citizens of this law is to prevent access to information and re-use of information on the user's request. On the other hand, the Commissioner received 1175 complaints in 2017 on the basis of the information shown in the report. It is evident that public authorities' actions 180 or 28.44% of appeal procedures have been assessed as legal or correct. While 434 or 68% of cases were found that the public authority had made a decision that was not in accordance with the law, the decision was annulled, i.e. the decision was amended. The public authorities did not act in accordance with the law, i.e. they denied the user access to information without such a decision being based on the law. This shows that public authorities continue to make more mistakes than they do in accordance with the law. In the case of one legal and correct solution, two illegal or incorrect decisions shall be made. The need for further work on the promotion and education of public authorities is visible, and the awareness of the users of their rights, which the Commissioner points out in the report, and what we strongly support in the Most. The bridge of independent lists supports the Commissioner's report, as well as the recommendations made by the Commissioner for Information in her report and calls on the government to make significantly greater efforts to implement these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86207	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mark Sladolev. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague of the Sunchana Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86208	... Vice President, dear Mrs. Musa, colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] Since the report has been done quite a bit, and since the Commissioner has already explained in some way what she has done in the past period, I will not go back so much to the data that we can all find, but I will only recapitulate her recommendations and what was happening in the Republic of Croatia, since we passed the first Law on the right to access information, that is, when we have adopted its amendments. When the reports arrived, therefore, as foreseen by law, usually at the beginning of the year, I think she specifically pointed out, that the public authorities, however, understood or respected the legal provisions, which is evident from the reports delivered by the public authority, so at this point in the Republic of Croatia, we have almost 6000 of them. The level of compliance with the legal obligations at the level since 2016 is therefore compared to a year earlier, 81 or 82% and we can say that we have made enviable progress here, so I believe that we can be satisfied with the level reached by the public authorities. However, what we cannot be satisfied with, and what the Commissioner has only briefly touched in her report, and I think that was her job in some way, is that those bodies of the public authorities, which are defined by the Law, have not yet appointed Commissioners for Information. What is not written in this report, and I certainly believe that you know that, too, the bodies of the public authorities, have not yet well understood the legal provisions, i.e., do not stick to what the Commissioner for Information should be, who should be that person and do not experience in a sufficiently good way a legal obligation. Therefore, they are still persons, especially at lower levels of the public authority, who, along with their work, carry out the work of the Commissioner for Information, under-educated and of course not those people themselves are guilty, they are appointed by the leaders and I think it is necessary to work systematically to ensure that the legal implementation is of a much better quality and that some of the recommendations that the Commissioner has made here can indeed be achieved. When we talk about transparency whether when we talk and in the processes in the extreme case, such as court disputes in the period from 2013 to 2017, we may say that we can be satisfied or we can say that this is the beginning of a new trend, given that the share of the administrative disputes launched was 6% and they started significantly more frequently than in earlier years. In 2017, the prosecutors initiated an administrative dispute compared to 14.93 open cases, i.e. 14.73 completed appeals cases. So, there is some level of awareness in which all citizens can exercise their legal right, but what we can say firsthand, in a way it is that it is often about the abuse of the law, that it is often not understood what the law can ask for and what was from some replicas here at the very least, quite clear that perhaps some MPs understand to an insufficient extent what is actually the Law on the right to access information. So neither the information officers nor the law serve to investigate everything that actually exists somewhere in public authorities or is available on the public authorities' websites. So we have to make it very clear that the right to access information is not appointed by the Commissioners for Information or by order to be Information Officers, that they do not serve as Google, but they serve to provide citizens and all interested with the right information that they have the right to seek through the law. Likewise, I commend you for doing education, for doing education at different levels and with different groups, but obviously it was not enough, I see that you agree with me and whoever you are in your place, I think it is absolutely necessary not only to pass the law but new generations are coming and new people should constantly work with them and should be referred to what they may seek as according to the law. The trend of proactive disclosure of information has been recorded, which is kind of on the way in your report, on the public authorities' websites, teaching what I said earlier. So if a public authority has any information publicly published, then to request that same information from the public authority, regardless of what it is available, and there is a need to make some distance so that we do not engage later in certain proceedings, in the end of the case for which you are competent as a body if the public authority has proactively published that information or if it is already available. When we talk about requests for access to information, the report states that about half of the bodies that are bonds of the law have not received any request, i.e. the most requests are received by bodies at the state level other than the city of Zagreb. The question arises why citizens do not make their demands to those bodies closest to them. So we also need to clearly separate it. It seems that it is easy for citizens or anyone we call citizens in this case, regardless of who makes a request in public authorities, to send an inquiry to the ministry, and not in fact a body that is an important source of information to them, but I think I want to refer the requests to those closest to them at local level where I can get all the information that is important to them for specific life issues. I believe that the local level is precisely the key to raising the quality of life, and it must be a service to all citizens. It was seen from your report that many units of local self-government still ignore demands or we return to the fact that they have not yet, regardless of the long ages of the law and all its amendments, yet have not appointed their commissioners or have not put the law into office. What activities you have spent promoting such an approach, so 726 public authorities have not appointed information officers, I think there is a big job in front of you or in front of your successor or heir. There is also a question of abuse of the right to access information, a particular user abuses the right to access information, you have a whole series of functionally related requirements, frequent requirements, something has been said about it in replicas. The solution is actually a burden on the body of the public authority. The report said briefly, the fact is that bodies face this phenomenon, but a very small percentage of such solutions is eventually confirmed, so only about 13% in that appeal procedure. The issue of media issues being raised in the form of requests for access to information. It's just as much as I think that the media needs more work, the media are there to question, to be a social correction, of course they have the right to do it, but I think in these workshops that you mentioned, which were, the media should be more represented because it's precisely those who can give the best information that the law defines, how the law is implemented and actually the most workable with the media. It is commendable that during 2017 the public authorities carried out almost 2800 consultations with the interested public, 35% more than in 2016 and only a year earlier it is even twice as much and I think we should praise that fact. What interested the citizens most, so user requests, if we did some sort of analysis and you gave a review here, so 6 bodies with the largest number of requests for access to information were Croatian Waters, the city of Zagreb, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This also confirms the fact that I have pointed out before, which is that it is, in fact, the easiest thing for citizens to say on a conditional basis, to ask the highest level to ask a question or to make a request for access to information. I will return briefly to what I was talking about earlier, which is the abuse of the right to access information, which is evident from how often some questions are asked, or for some reason, questions are deliberately repeated. Abuse of the right to access information 139, so 22.6% were the highest. Classified data slightly above 20%, which also means that citizens still don't know what they can and can't ask for, shows that your report. Personal data 14.76%, therefore, is something that we need to make sure that such data is simply not available for these reasons or because of other legal provisions cannot be applied. The number of counseling, I pointed out, I think that's good. However, you should see something about this in your recommendations, which is that consultation with the interested public should take up to 30 days. So the laws change. Sometimes there is also a need to do this in 8-10 days, I think you should think about if you're already talking about some other needs of changing some other laws, to see if certain provisions can be made in a better way. As for the other legal changes you're proposing, some laws are already in phase. It will, for example, be mentioned that the Media Act should be amended. I agree, and some other media domain laws are quite, conditionally, old, times change, technologies are different and already some laws are in the design phase. So the right to access information differs from other information rights, and that is where we need to make a difference. 30 countries in the world seem to me that the Constitution guarantees actually the right to access information. More than 50 countries such as Croatia have regulated or resolved the laws. However, citizens of modern democracies are actively seeking information. I think it's a good thing we're one of the countries that makes information available in this way. However, we all need to work together to ensure that raising the quality of the work of the public administration, the bodies of the public authorities are in some way and that our citizens or citizens have more confidence in the bodies of the public government. In conclusion, there is still no difference in what can be sought through the Law on the right to access information, the necessary education I think there is an important role of the Commissioner for Information, that it should work harder, that people should be educated. In conclusion, I will only say on the recommendation that you have stated, which is, for example, the openness of the session of the body of the public authority. I'll make a quick reference. So, the sessions are open, at least as far as they're concerned, if you want from the government level, except for what's called a closed section of the government's session. I must also say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the rarest, although it is probably not known, the government in Europe or among the EU countries that has life transfers, which it has, here I see that you know it, would be good if it were listed as well. So, which has a life-transmission, the name of the life stream, it has very, very few EU countries. Most often, it comes down to either briefings after a cabinet meeting or is reported only to certain points. So let's not just say that RH is in something bad, we're really good at this. The colleagues who work in local self-government units also say city council meetings, county councils, all this is open to the public, so that the recommendation that has been made here does not stand, that it is not well said in this context, and of course what reasons something must be closed, public authorities, or this level, certainly have the right to do so and according to other laws. The HDZ Club will accept this report with these notes that I mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86209	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sunny Head. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Commissioner, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, the Institute of Use of the Right to Access Information is badly born in the Republic of Croatia and has experienced several different institutional stages. Among other things, the one where the government strongly resisted the establishment of the Commissioner Institute and that this job is done and supervised through an autonomous institution. We are now at the end of a period in which we can look at the effects of this independent institution or institution established by the Croatian Parliament in order to contribute to the active repression of corruption, in particular corruption, and then increase the efficiency of the work of the public authority in performing its basic function, which is to provide services to citizens. Namely, as we know, the state is an unwritten social agreement. The state was founded by members of society in order to establish a mechanism that would provide them with under 1, security and under 2, equality. That equality also includes the application of their rights which are original or prescribed by specific laws or by the Constitution. One of these rights on the basis of which they exercise their citizenship is the right to access the information they need to exercise their debt rights and to be employed by citizens. In this sense, whenever the state does not do its job by providing services to its citizens, citizens feel frustrated, powerless and a feeling is born that is so widespread in Croatia's modern society, which is absolutely untrustworthy of political institutions. Unfortunately, it's not since yesterday, it's a trend that lasts, it's a trend of disappointment, all those who hoped that the establishment of their own administration, their own administration and their own innuendo will return through a better life of citizens, a better quality of attitude towards fundamental rights, and what's most important is the opening of space for competitiveness, so that the better can be achieved and that actually excellence is valued as a value in society. It is extremely important for them to have access to public information so that they can compete equally. In this respect, access to public information speaks about transparency of the work of public authorities or public authorities or bodies and organisations with public authority. And we know if there is no such transparency, if there is no transparency, let's say a public procurement system, it's an ideal environment, an ideal environment for the development of the greatest evil of every society, which is corruption. Unfortunately, when measured by indices exposure and corruption or corruption, the situation in Croatia today and, say, 7 or 8 years ago, the situation is pretty bad. We hoped that a whole series of changes, legal regulations before entering the EU, in that adjustment process, would contribute to permanent institutionalisation, transparency, respect for public and different behaviour in the exercise of public duties. As things stand, by these parameters we are the worst and among the worst in the EU. We obviously didn't realize how bad it was, how destructive and destructive it is for the quality of life in every society. And today, therefore, not only because of general mistrust in political institutions, but also because of their inability to solve problems, we have so, I would say, a negative feeling of citizens, according to the environment in which they live and such a data platform that they leave and leave their country. It's not good, it's not good for anyone, it's not good for that country either, and it's not good if we have such a big machine, because many experts, including politicians, say that Croatia with such an atomized and local and local self-government and on the other hand a highly centralised country does not provide a quality service, despite the large number of people working in the public sector. The 4 million inhabitants, so many public sector employees, should be provided with an incredibly, incredibly high quality service, and we also have a situation according to this report, that 1/5 of this public sector is not even able to meet the basic conditions, which is to determine the person in charge of providing the citizens with the information they are looking for. We know very well that a large number of units of local self-government, have a small capacity, we know very well that many public administration bodies also have a low capacity, expect them to have 1.2 or 3 employees, to serve this need, sometimes it is unrealistic, but on the other hand the question is, how can there be even administrations and systems with so few employees, of which they are expected to deliver quality service to citizens. That's why it's a question of all the questions, to deal with the huge public in law, this irrationally organized, and the number of units of local self-government. A municipality that is not able to provide information to its citizens, let alone the drive of kindergarten, cannot be called a functional unit of local self-government that meets the needs of its citizens. Publicly known cases, boasts, those who should perform their duties publicly and transparently certainly do not contribute to the expansion of culture of citizens' trust in institutions and citizens' trust in institutions of the right to access information. It is paradoxical that this law is used in consummation and respects only when you refer to it. It's like someone spits you out in a fight because you didn't call in time for criminal provisions that prevent a physical attack. So, if there is a law defined by law, citizens to access information, if that right extends to the media, it is insane to have to call on that right to provide them with information. Because as long as they don't call for that right, they're rejected. And there is unnecessary additional litigation, administrative proceedings, complaints, so that, after a certain time or a matter, it will come up with or eventually force the public authorities to make publicly available information which is required to be submitted to citizens' enquiries, on the questionnaires of the interested public. Publicly known cases in which this was refused, such as the case where the President of the Republic refused to give long-term information on its official travels or official travel to the United States or cases in which even the Court of Justice Committee of the Republic of Croatia cannot carry out an insight into the property card of the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court or of this case where it is not possible to find out the elemental information about officials of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, these are cases which show that ignoring one climate is created in which citizens then do not have confidence, that in such cases, if there is no relevant situation, there will only be a relevant situation in those cases where they are seeking information about why their rights have been violated or did not allow the fulfilment of their rights defined by other laws. We appreciate Mrs Anamaria's extremely successful efforts as Commissioner. This job shows that there is still a lot of work to be done not only in raising the overall political culture and public responsibility of all those who perform public duties on the one hand, the institutions as such on the other hand, and we believe that when a balance of these years has been made as Commissioner, it is not easy and probably frustrating when it is seen that with so many violations of rights we have such a miserable number of sanctions, because of the long procedures, because of the statutes and because of the obstructions and I believe that she did not wish for the next term of office and that she did not even report for the competition. I don't suppose he'll even answer this one again. We're sorry about that because she set some standards in that sense. We will, of course, support this report in the hope that someone elected to this duty will have enough strength, on the other hand patience, so I would say some new enthusiasm not only continues where the Commissioner is now stopping but may be naturally said and a little more naive in expectations of what she will be able to do in the next term. Each government should, if it holds to the well-being of its citizens, make sure that all those mechanisms overseeing the work of the public authorities from the Commissioner for Information to the Advocates to the independent regulatory authorities are well heard and used by all the instructions, advices, recommendations, because they are much better seen on the part than on the inside. I wish that the time in which reports will be ignored is just to take note or refuse definitely behind us and that we take seriously the efforts of professional institutions, independent regulatory and supervisory bodies when it comes to how to make the state better, more comfortable for the lives of its citizens, and if you want something to be proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86211	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richembergh, for this debate. We are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Commissioners with a colleague, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's a few times we've heard today that it's a constitutionally guaranteed right of every citizen to access information. And that's good because we all need to be equal and we all need to get the information that we want to have and who we need to be available to everyone. Otherwise, the public authorities, we have them in Croatia 5,853 to be monitored, and their obligations are proactive disclosure of information on the websites, delivery of information and the central catalogue of official documents, the public work of collegiate bodies, public consultation, re-use of information by publication of open data, then handling on requests for access to information or re-use of information. In addition, each public authority is obliged to designate an information officer who provides for the implementation of this Information Access Act and to inform the public and the Commissioner for Information. It is also required to keep an official register of all applications submitted to cooperate with the Commissioner for Information and to submit an annual report for the past year until 31 January. Here, as we have heard and as we see in this report, this has made 4,683 taxpayers or 80% for 2017. We all like to talk about transparency and we really need it and we need to have and we need to be able to get information. Why is everyone still talking to the state level for information even though a lot of this information is at the state level on the website and is available to all citizens? Well, maybe it's because local self-government units have a lot more of those who don't have their own website. And not that they don't want to, and it was true that we have units of local self-government or other public authorities that don't have that capacity or have a small number of employees. But are they necessary? They also need to provide information more often and even give information on the matter, although they do not have a specific Commissioner because if a memo is sent to that unit of local self-government, they will give that information, but they did not appoint a Commissioner, because one person or two, as many as they do in these municipalities, along with volunteers, Commissioners, did not really do so. Maybe they should and should have been in accordance with this law. And that's where we get that thing, and that's education. Last year, here's how much we see in the report of 40 educations, or 618 employees were educated under this Information Access Act. There's a certain change in people, fluctuations, people come, people go, crowds are considering little no. employee. Maybe really, I know that your obligations are big too, but to try a few times, that someone will come to that education and in that time how much longer he remains, with everything else, is unfortunately, still that law, we haven't put into rank other laws of importance, because the Law on the right to access information, and that's what we'll do at the end of the working time when everything else is solved and that's a common problem in that part. However, no matter what, you can see that there really is a shift, we have here that increased responsibility in fiscal responsibility and that's good and every year the data is really getting better and better. As far as e-consultation is concerned, there's really been progress, as we can see it was two years ago seven days ago, then 15 days, then 19 days, even though it's 30 days of e-consultation. However, we often have some citizens who abuse this e-consumption, or we can't exactly call them abuse, but if one citizen on every law has 15 objections, I personally looked at e-consumption, and I even know some people who actually when they went into retirement, obviously it's their fun. So now that you expect every time other than the answer, you don't accept a detailed explanation, you would ask and actually appeal to those who write comments just because they write, to leave more space for those who are really concerned with a certain law and have a need to point out what they're not satisfied with. Otherwise, 25% of the cases have been observed, which is not small, it is still a respectable percentage. What the Commissioner referred to was sanctioning, where in 5 years, only 6 court rulings were to impose sanctions. And that sanctioning it is almost impossible under the applicable law. So from this point on, we'd like to appeal, and we've heard that there are some laws that will further regulate this space. It was also mentioned and the specific case of HBOR, with us not yet defined that HABOR, a bank or a body is a public authority and should be defined and that it is accurate, what information and what is published. Because we know what a bank secret is, and in this section we know what information should be published. I'm the same for that, everything that can be published, to be published. But so long as some things aren't clear, I think we need to clarify. The HNS Club, it will support this report because we think it's really extensive, well, that a lot of shifts have been made and that it needs to tell us, that apart from being better from being year by year, we need to be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86213	I thank my esteemed colleague, Macar. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club esteemed colleague Sabina Glasovac, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Commissioners with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the Commissioner's report on law enforcement, i.e., the right to access information for 2017. What I want to say at the very beginning is that we want to commend your work and the work of your office, because you are indeed not going to say miserable but insufficient financial resources, whether with great enthusiasm and commitment of the unemployed, you have shown and proved that it made sense to adopt the Law on Access to Information, but also participation, i.e. the establishment of an Information Commissioner Institute. The shifts from 2013 to today are visible. And in fact, what I liked was that neither we here in the Croatian Parliament, when we passed the law, nor when we changed certain provisions of the law, that we did not waste our time in vain, but also that neither did you. So the existence of this law and the existence of the institute, the Commissioner, or the Commissioner for Information, was not only justified but necessary. It has proved to be extremely important for openness, accountability and improving transparency in the work of public authorities, which, of course, drags into the openness of society itself. Secondly, that it has been working towards the effectiveness of the public tasks of public authorities, on more efficient management of public resources, on the involvement of citizens and legal persons in decision-making processes, namely the achievement of their civil, human rights but also not less important, but also on what is equally important and what is actually one of the credentials of the existence of this institute but also on the implementation of that law, which is the eradication of corruption but also the strengthening of trust in the institutions. We discussed yesterday here in the Croatian Parliament a report by the Ombudsman for 2017 and what has once again proved to be an unspeakable trend in the Republic of Croatia, it is actually an extremely high percentage of citizens who do not report discrimination, violation of their civil rights or human rights. On the one hand, perhaps because they are not informed enough, I am not going to say the same about the application process, but on the other hand, what the research has shown is that citizens don't actually trust institutions. And that is why it is precisely your work of your office and of monitoring or protecting, monitoring and promoting the right to access information, which binds many other segments of society. Where I pulled the parallel with a report on the work of the Ombudsman, because, together with others, we know that Croatia was formed, which is a trio of the authorities, but it is extremely important for the functioning of a mature responsible democratic institution to function independently, whether it was a member of the staff's attorney, the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, the child defender, the advocate for gender equality, the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest or the Commissioner for Information, it is extremely important to empower these institutions, to work to improve their independence and not to attack this same independence, because we are thus undermining our society even if at some point in this situation we are not aware of it. I would refer to this report in particular to certain segments of the report, a lot of my predecessors have talked about both these statistics and comparisons with previous years. I would like to say something here from the position of the units of local self-government and first of all allow me, here I will take this discretionary right to commend the town of Čakovec, who in this report the Commissioner for Information on the Implementation of the Law on Access to Information, the only one of the local units has fulfilled the public's obligation to work fully and this is a good example which should also be led by other units of local self-government. When we talk about other segments of the report, as referred to in Article 11(3). The law on the right to access information, public authorities are obliged to consult the public in a 30-day rule. Very often, this word is used as a rule. And we need to see which mechanisms through the amendments to the law, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, but first of all, the law, we know when it can be consulted for less than 30 days, when it is working with harmonisation with EU documents, when some objective circumstances do not allow consultation to take place during that period, etc., etc., but the intensity of this word "in general" was not that it becomes a rule but to be an exception. Unfortunately, it is often abused. What my colleague said, I can't remember my last name now, my colleague Marko from MOST, so the average public consultation of 19 days is progress compared to previous years, but it's not something we can be pleased with. What's a little bit illogical is that, for example, Some budget documents which are not consulted or in the consultation plan in the draft laws and other regulations of the Ministry of Finance's 2018 section, for example, when a budget is adopted, actually the Ministry of Finance has no obligation to carry out public consultation and it is kept very closed by the public itself, resulting in the fact that due to the failure to publish such information, as the Commissioner states in the report, financial transparency and information on the intended and implemented spending of public funds are essential for citizens and necessary for strengthening the responsibility of the authorities and combating corruption and the effective achievement of public tasks. There are laws or amendments that are already in place, that is, what I just said, were not at all consulted or were much shorter than prescribed deadlines without the law of the prescribed reasoning. So, there was no harmonisation with the EU acquis, I mean, it's not even legal property now are compliance with certain directives, but on the contrary, what the leaders of some local self-government units warn about, they were strictly supervised to comply with Article 11. The law on the right to access information on the implementation of consultations with reasons that the consultation may only take longer when exceptional conditions have taken place for which it is not possible to carry out consultations within the legal time limit and in which case the reasons for the short duration of the consultation are necessary and public reasons in the light of the document which is put to the consultation under justified emergency circumstances are specified the need to meet the conditions for the use of EU funds in the event of a delay in the decision on the allocation of funds and an elemental accident. It is not good to apply the same provision of the law differently to the Croatian Parliament or the public authorities at national level where we are somehow interpreting it much more easily, and on the other hand, we ask local self-government units for strict application and we are very firm, especially because local life is much more dynamic and the need for intervention in a specific general act comes more often and a week before the meeting of the representative body of the local unit. And that's the truth that we can't escape and that we don't have to argue with. And very often they are found precisely because of this dynamic of local life are in difficulty in respecting the counseling set out in Article 11. The law on the right to access information. It is also very often that laws that are passed in the Croatian Parliament give a very short deadline for harmonising the units of local self-government and those in these situations of the local self-government unit and with the best will to respect and apply the Law on Access to Information and the need for public consultation are not able to do so because, for example, the Croatian Parliament has determined that certain provisions of the law must be respected or brought to a local level within a very short time period and come into a certain amount of cohesion, and that the Croatian Parliament brings the leaders of the units of local self-government and representative bodies into a situation that must violate the law because they must respect on the one hand the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament, and on the other hand cannot carry out all the procedures that need to precede the same at local level. It is also necessary to include an amendment to the public consultation plan within that short period. A serious consideration should be given to amending the provisions of Article 62. Infringement law which prescribes the exclusion of the criminal liability of the Republic of Croatia without the responsibility of the person responsible for the offence, not only of the Republic of Croatia but also of other levels which are obliged to comply with that law, because when we look at this report, a unit of local self-government has more concrete municipalities, there are 6, I will not now state them here that I am not showing anyone, and it may be a shame that they ignore the obligation to deliver reports on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information. It's not the only law and regulations they're deafening themselves to, but this is what they're deafening themselves to. And what can you do in that case? It's practically nothing. It's year after year. So it's not one year can be a case, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth years it's not even rude anymore, it's a denial of the rule of law and it's knowingly ignoring and breaking the law and we can't tolerate it. We came to the Parliament to see it in the report and now we're gonna tell you it's like that, it's normal. No, that's not normal. We insist that the laws are respected. The Commissioner states in the report that, as a applicant, citizens appear dominantly in four-fifths of cases, and that this is evidence that many citizens are familiar with the way in which their constitution is guaranteed access to information. The fact is that in some cases not only of the citizens but also of some other actors there is abuse of that law and the need to seek information, but that is no reason not to try to improve the Institute itself and to inform citizens more and not just citizens about their rights that can be consumed by this law. It certainly needs to be commended for helping users by the information commissioners, but what the local self-government unit is complaining about is that very often the answers they receive are not sufficiently concrete. Yeah, you don't want to go in, you don't get to know the matter sometimes, so you may not be able to give a concrete answer, but their seeing things is that they wouldn't talk to you that certain things are detailed and they talk informably about acting in accordance with the law, and they don't know what to do in certain cases. And there very often they get answers where they are quoted by the provisions of the law, and I said for what reason and I understand it, but you need to see how to improve that communication in terms of helping local self-government units in those provisions of a law where things aren't detailed, and people don't know what to do. Webinari for users is also commendable, but what may need to be paid attention to may try to specify more concrete examples and concrete solutions to some of the possible problems, it would be useful to provide more precise guidance and quality of Webinar. And now what is important is to define the scope of the Law on the right to access information in combination with the Data Protection Act and some other law. We have a problem here and we have to solve it and I still find it amazing that in 2018, after five years of your office's existence, I have to say, we still live in a country where the public can't get information about the character of the President's trip to America or about the financing of her birthday where very often when media or the public try to get some information or get answers from those institutions, and by the mah very often it's about the Office of the President and some other ministries, but most of all about the President's Office, it's not okay it's a practice...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86215	I thank my colleague, Voter, for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86216	Thank you very much. Dear Commissioners for Information, Honorable fellow MPs. We're talking about the most important element, and that's the right to information all means equal availability. I mentioned in the replica here we are talking about law enforcement, legality, but the fact that in the laws given by the Most Club, the proposal for a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing that then the Commissioner basically supported certain changes to mean openings, means that it is publicly published registers of all real owners, companies. However, with the good will of your Commissioner, most of them did not want to accept it. I don't know exactly what the reasons are, but obviously that secret, to be a register of real company owners, someone has to say what it's about. Is that why society is here at this level now? Are these the ones who robbed Croatia in privatisation and war profit? Because I don't see any reason why what went through in the European Parliament in the first reading, where the representatives of parliament are, for example, the majority of them. from HDZ, they supported it in the first reading and here they didn't. So the basic problem here is who are the real owners of the Republic of Croatia, the companies, custody accounts, that's what they'd see, because they've mixed absolutely not just the accounts, they've taken the companies, they've taken the property created, and no one knows who the owners are. We can guess, the register exists but we do not have the right information to know who the owners are and the European Parliament is asking for it. Even the first reading passed by a HDZ representative in the Europarliament, representatives voted for it and did not. We have a lot of similar remarks, but this is a key observation that information is being hidden in Croatia, we said in this now that we have said in the adoption of company ownership and public procurement are problematic that destroy competition because there must have been some privileged information, there is the case with Agrokora, we know that it was privileged information, that credits were being given, as the colleague said earlier in HBOR we do not have that information, why it is not publicly revealed to whom the loans were all given. So the question of information in a democratic society is all, for all things alike, the only secret of the importance of the state. But whether they give HBOR credit to anyone is the secret and real owners of the company. Why would you hide the real owners of companies, custody accounts that are.../The speaker does not understand in what way all companies and how they became owners of us are hiding it. So thank you, you've made a great contribution, you've accepted this proposal that every citizen can at any moment know which owner, the real owner of the company, but most of it has not accepted it, it was one good one, it would be a good way to fight corruption, clientism, against prevention means money laundering, but most of it here has no interest. With all your efforts on the right to information, most of it has no interest. And once again, thank you for your support as Commissioner at the time, as Commissioner, that amendment. When we talk about, he mentioned a colleague of Sladoljev, but it was through replica, we would not want to spoil the world championship now, but the way in which certain politicians, officials and local politicians are financed through the Croatian Football Federation to go in, why we do not have the right to this information, who are these people, who are being financed and why they are essentially financing their departure to the expense of the Croatian Football Federation when we know that two-thirds of Croatian children do not have any absolute or almost no conditions to practice sports. I think you'd have a much smarter HNS choice, much smarter to invest that money. I know that you can answer these questions of mine, and that you will answer these questions, you have responded partly through replicas, you as Commissioner, but the fact that the people need to know that they still have means of certain and privileged information. I personally repeat the most painful real owners of the company. Here I am why the Croatian people, as representatives, do not know who are the real owners of the company in the Republic of Croatia. Here's who can explain it to my fellow MPs why you don't know? Which is why it is not known when the majority is here, HDZ representatives in the Europarliament voted for it in their first reading. Well, I'm glad to see we have a replication reaction, so maybe I'll get an answer through the replicas. In the end, I would just say that as much information as I have, you haven't competed for another, you've done a lot, although you're still mostly local, and here's the county of Sisak-Moslavina, the mayor doesn't even answer questions, even county councillors. At the local level there are also problems, citizens with information, of course it is difficult to follow but surely this step that you have taken is great.../The speaker is not understood./... question.../The speaker is not understood./..., however, always at the end of most, means always most of the law is passed. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86217	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We have a few replicas, a respected colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86218	Your Honor, Vice President. My friend Bulj, I'm surprised at you, you have your eyes open, you listen, you think, so here's my advice. As a responsible member of the Anti-Corruption Council, I must defend my President of the Council, Zeljko Jovanovic, who says there is no corruption in Croatia. Since we don't have any procedurals or government officials or any of the big sniffers, how do you like to say that for the like? And the current candidate for the president of the Party of Democratic Change says, because of corruption and clientism he is rising. And that kind of contradicts my president of the Anti-Corruption Council, Jovanovic. And I want you to unearth all such things as I am Beusa Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86219	Thank you, dear colleague Culey. Answer, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86220	We can talk about corruption and clienteleism so it's party-colored, unpainted. But the fact is, and I'm sorry that most in parliament didn't support that we have a register of all of us who are the real owners of the company, and in the interest of fighting terrorism and fighting, of course between corruption and money laundering. It's a key problem. Because this legislative body didn't allow it. So, we had a proposal and it didn't go away, and the lady is like a leader, and as an information commissioner, she supported our proposal. And even the European Council, the European Commission, the European Parliament accepts it, and we in the Republic of Croatia do not know who the real owners of companies are. And somebody explain to me why. Here, I really don't know why it wasn't accepted. That's what I asked when the law was passed, we were giving amendments when it was the first law of the government, no one had explained why.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86221	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86222	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Bull, here's the mention of Sisak-Moslavina County. Unfortunately, HDZ Mayor Ivo Žinic and his inseparable replacement Roman Rosavec rule there, and as you said, they do not want to give answers to the eternal issues written about deposits that Sisak-Moslavina County has in the bank invested, which are about the county hospital, which are about county companies, about things from the budget. Well, we're surprised if the citizens can't get the information. The same thing is when we representatives of the Croatian Parliament ask representative questions to various ministries, then we get an answer on paper with some text that mainly says nothing. One of my questions was for Petrochemy Kutin, and I wanted to know what price Petrochemy gets gas even though it's mostly state-owned, but I couldn't get that kind of information. Local self-government units, especially in my county, you can't get information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86223	Thank you, colleague Lenart. Answer me, Comrade Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86224	Well, of course the county's a special story. The mayors act like they're feuds, like it's feudalism and they just consider it their own. So, uh... the party's infrastructure, mainly the biggest parties to HDZ and part, of course to the SDP where they have power, to keep the counties alive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because counties are a key catch and employment generator, i.e. a key selection generator. I really wish that when I ran for mayor, the first thing I would ask for, I would do anything to get rid of those counties because they are the main brakes and mayors, the main brakes of leaving 2/3 of Croatian young people. They are the purpose of themselves, not the development of rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86225	I thank you for your response to my colleague Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86226	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, of course everyone should know who owns some companies, especially in our Croatian state. However, just before you mentioned the Football Federation of Croatia which is at the World Cup and how some people have left. Okay, I agree. And that should ask a question. But we need to know that the Football Federation of Croatia may be one, if we can call it a company that is already 20 years in world championships, but how many times have they gone and financed themselves from UEFA and FIFA. So, no practically state money. And I'm asking you, I'd like you to comment more on Split, Hajduk, to sweep things in front of your door, to ask how many young players Split has driven into bankruptcy. That's the question, Bull. It's from your county that you keep repeating, why did Split shut down and leave debts to players who didn't pay, and that man is a millionaire? That's your question, Bull. From Split and Hajduk who are, you know who owns Split.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86227	Thank you, dear fellow Music. Answer, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86228	I was just asking, and I'm asking again, who's the HNS of politicians asking me to find information, and that's our right. You speak in Split's Hajduk your man. What man took the money, I have no idea, I'm just a Heiduk fan and every month I pay... And every month I pay Hajduk a membership fee and it's my right to be a Hajduk fan, like a Dinamo. ... [[You can't hear it.]] I don't know what you're thinking now, Hajduk. I don't know who you want to protect by attacking Hajduk. I don't know why you're sore about it. [[You can't hear it.]] That's from... I'm still not going to count it, so let's just list it for someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the right to know the citizens of that information. Isn't that... The pub is not a sport... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86229	Thank you, Your Honor... Dear colleague Bulj for the answer. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Next replica, respected counterpart Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86230	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, while you were already in the process of these HBOR loans which, despite the Commissioner's decisions and despite the judgments of the High Administrative Court, continue to refuse to release all HBOR's loans publicly, I am very interested today in any argument of the ruling, which is why the HBOR does not want to publish a list of loans, so a colleague on behalf of the HNS Club said that because it is not yet defined whether the HBOR body is a public authority or a bank. Well, I still want to refer what HBOR is because it says that public authorities are legal entities founded by the Republic of Croatia, which is prescribed by Article. 5. Law on the right to access information, and in the Law on HBOR, Art. 4. legal personality says HBOR was founded by the Republic of Croatia as a legal person, in 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia, so it is a body of public authority. Please don't use such arguments anymore, find something smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86231	I thank my colleague Lesandric. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86232	My colleagues are clear to me that you should have information, but the information was hidden because credits were also going away, to companies such as. Before Todoric left Agrokor and were pumped out of theirs, not just from HBOR. However, we must have that information, citizens must have that information, to which loans from that institution have been granted. I don't see any reason why not, because we do, we all have to be equal. Anyone who wants to run, by any project in HBOR, he must have that information. However, these were privileged information, in public procurement, and HBOR loans, and therefore we have no competition and competitiveness, which is why the failed companies, which were better, which were marketable much better, but they favoured the worse ones, and that money was essentially going wrong, and therefore they do not want to show it. There's no other explanation, everything else is false.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86233	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I welcome the guests and guests of our esteemed colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, who joined us at the gallery, welcome... We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Milorad Batinić, please. [[Applause.]] You're the one who picked up the line on that? ... I'm very sorry. Here you go, fellow Sunshan. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86234	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Bull looks forward to my replica, only two things. You're an eclectic example of what I was talking about on behalf of the club, that you need to know what the Law on the right to access information is talking about. So, some of the information you're looking for, you have to look for, for example, at the High Court of Commerce, there's a register there. As for associations, no matter who you mention here, but you mention one organization, which I hope we'll all be proud of their results, I'll remind you that according to the Associations Act there is an annual financial report, that there is an association office and that everything is beautifully written there, who is being funded and in what proportion. So please, colleague Bulj, we are all here or should be responsible for the citizens and for these young people sitting up there, when we make some laws, that they know what, by which law they can look for them. So the Commissioner knows very well that the public authorities are not associations, she also knows very well. So, please, we're talking about the metrics, we're talking about the way things are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86235	Thank you, dear colleague Glavak, for the answer of my colleague Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86236	Thank you very much, colleague. Young people know what the state is up to and of course that in several terms, you were involved, not that you were guilty, but the fact is that there was a law here, which proposed the Bridge to pass a law on the prevention of money rights and we asked it to be a register of public, real company owners, it's gone, it's not public. There's a register but it's not public, custody accounts, have you heard of custody accounts? As INA went, MOL, we all heard it, so young people know, that's why the state was brought into this situation, that they don't know where they're going. And you call on young people, who from day to day, because of this policy that you do not know who owns, the real owner of companies in Croatia, that's why the young leave, because they haven't earned, nor were they the father's money. They robbed it and that's why you don't... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86237	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. We move on to the next debate, and my apology, dear colleague Milorad Batinić, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86238	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Commissioners, colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for an individual debate, just for a reason, to try and explain myself, and also to the general public, because I also had a series of questions at local level and certain dilemmas, in the case of my services in the city, about the Law on the right to access information, which is that information that we owe to citizens. In particular, regarding the application and the European legislation, on the protection of personal data, which is particularly relevant and concrete yesterday on the city council, I had one inquiry and I was in a dilemma, whether we have neither secrets to the city council nor to the service, however, I was in a great dilemma, may I present certain information. I have a personal number of concerns, but first of all, as far as the law itself is concerned. Transparency is never enough and the fact is and statistics say that certain efforts have been made, but also certain positive effects of this law, activities carried out by the commission although they cannot fully agree whether the main culprit, whether the state, is doing non-transparency, whether the bodies local and regional self-government. I mean, did we ever wonder, I'm starting with my case, if the citizens want to be informed about everything. I think one of the main problems is, just as citizens, we don't want to be informed enough. Namely, here, I'll give you a few examples, later in the debate. When it comes to proactive information, it's better to prevent it, rather than to provide clarifications later, additional information and so on. The fact is that information costs, it's a huge expense, primarily for local self-government, if I look at it, but I also believe it analogly for other public authorities, means a person for information, so daily update of the website, that's the minimum. Certain things in the assessment of transparency, regardless of who estimates, have to be recorded sessions, city council means either tonic or audiovisual, you have to have some note or I don't know what's expensive, absolutely costing it. The fact is, as far as local self-government is concerned, there may be too much, perhaps too little, and you wouldn't want to generalise that there's nothing in principle, that there's no movement. There is, not only are they visible from statistical indicators, but as a simple leader of local self-government, I follow, of course, in my environment in which direction and how it is taking place, but I am also aware that certain units of local self-government simply do not have enough capacity and are not able to employ anyone in that workplace and for fiscal capacity, and simply in some areas we see opportunities as demographics, etc. And there was not too much and you can see from the report that the commission and you Commissioners, that you absolutely tolerate and respect these certain circumstances. On the other hand, as head of local self-government since the daily update of sites, from interactive options, from Facebook, you no longer know what, how to attract citizens from the monthbooks, means presses that come to home addresses free of charge where there is no policy except when the city council is present the work of city bodies. And what does it apply to? About a budget in a small place where every citizen gets a home address, you don't have a feedback. One enough to think that all citizens are fully informed. Of course, why am I saying that? The primary drop of waist, as people who are dealing with this, find the modeality to reach out to citizens that they want to be better informed. I believe you've thought about it many times, but obviously we haven't been able to find some mechanisms, some models, some tools to do that yet. Now, the fact is, I was met in my practice and with a certain abuse of the law of access to information, you'll allow, that's my personal assessment. What are and what are your data? What bodies of public authorities, local, regional self-government, companies that have a unit of local self-government founders, what is it? There's big dilemmas, big questions. In particular, the city council has been asked a question name, last name, amount backwards for 5 years, all contracts, contract work, work by work, etc. Protection of personal data on one side, right to access, of course, because it's budgetary public money. Equally for companies owned by the city or whose town is the founder, institutions specifically. Furthermore, which companies will invest, talk about investments, 4 companies are preparing an investment in the business zone in the city, which are companies and what they will do, the council issue. Am I allowed to answer that? Without the consent of the companies involved. In particular, we own a database that we are in collaboration with and with companies in the administrative area of the city, some data are publicly available through FINA etc., are these public data that we are obliged to give to citizens? So we don't produce them as local self-government and precisely for reasons and transparency and for reasons why you want to kind of get closer to work, be transparent because we have nothing to hide, do we give, distribute these data on the right to access information? Furthermore, we were faced, not much, back a few years, with questions from which we read that someone was doing master's or doctoral work, some research. That's what it costs. 2.5 months, 3 officers, the headmasters can't make it to that data systematized they've been working, we haven't charged anything. Paper to charge? Allow me, that's the smallest item. We can't charge time. We could have refused, explained, had not been our goal, of course there was a good will, we assessed even though the question was very systematic, wrapped up in one cellophane, only after a few days of giving, gathering information and analysis we realized what it was, so come on, we didn't arrive in 30 days, we writtenly informed that we needed more time, so we were more than cooperative and we didn't know the person, first time we heard about the name and last name, and it wasn't explained at all, and we probably wouldn't go into that story. Where's the border, so that's the question. Furthermore, it is, of course, the obligation of all of us and, in particular, the commission to finally publicise not only us here, to specify exactly what the public authorities are and what information. There's a reference to HBOR, and what about the bank secret? That's the question. HBOR, I don't know, I'm not so familiar with the whole thing, I think it's only 15, 20, 20, and some percent, it gives it directly to the state. The rest goes through commercial banks. Are we allowed to share that information too? So you liked to shed some light on yourself and some themes, some questions and I say, it'll never be too much if you point out what that information is that public authorities have to do with it. And it's about, I say in particular, we've been having a lot of dilemmas lately about the protection of personal data because if we're reading the standard of what personal data is, it means that we can make an identification of a person. But that's where it ends. So, there's definitely not just you, there's the Agency, the RES, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data where there's got to be a common position, an opinion, an interpretation of how to respond especially to public authorities that are in debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86239	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. Replica, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86240	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Batinić, you said while you were in charge of the local self-government unit that you were thinking about whether or not you should forward any information, whether or not you should, and probably forward a lot of information. In our Sisak-Moslavina County, councilors cannot obtain any information from the county, as I said earlier, and I will read you a sentence from a single reply by the mayor Žinić who says, in the end, it is estimated that the asked questions and information do not refer to the data needed to perform the council's affairs. So I'm the mayor's judge of whether any councilman needs her. It is about spending money from the county budget, and I believe that you too believe that the heads of the regional and local self-government units have to answer the budget to the county councilman, not to play great rulers and tell the councilman that is not necessary or the councilman does not need such information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86241	Thank you. Answer. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86242	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Lenart, I'm still active in executive power as mayor. I wouldn't go there, so by law, if you ask me, I think it's due as head of local self-government that everyone gives a full answer primarily if it's about spending public money or any activities that are tied or going through the budget. Now, this comment that anyone would answer, I wouldn't allow myself not to answer the council's question all I know. If I don't know, there are professional services that help. Why? For when you answer as head of the local self-government councilman, you answer to your citizens who chose you. But I wouldn't go into that personal level, but you shouldn't be surprised. You mentioned the mayor. There are other mayors who are even worse, unfortunately. And that's in my county.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86243	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86244	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Commissioners, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here is what I would like to say today in my debate on the report on the implementation of the Law on Access to Information for 2017 on issues that we face in local self-government units and if a lot is already said. Namely, all units of local self-government, cities and municipalities especially those small have major problems regardless of what the Commissioner for Information has appointed. Most of the time, they're people who do a lot of other jobs. The municipal chief, or mayor, appointed the person, gave her new responsibilities, but this is where we face many problems. Since our mouths are full of the right to access information, except for citizens and councilmen, as we've heard, they're looking for information, for example. seek lists of all those citizens, or companies that are debtors of municipal compensation, water compensation, waste and the like. This Commissioner shall forward this to accounting, of course accounting will list all data, but not taking into account the protection of personal data. Especially the leaders of those units of local self-government then come into big trouble and a major offense because if any of that data comes out that's not allowed. The protection of personal data can also be injured if one of the council members, not to mention citizens, asks for personal income from the director of the institution, director of the company, head. Here's the nod, not if it's a gross salary. If it's a gross salary no. However, gross personal income they can also read through web pages because you can see the exact coefficient and you can see the basis. But I have to tell our average citizen, and that's not enough for a councilman because he doesn't know if he gets 19 thousand kuna or if he gets 10 or 12. I say again, when it comes to other services, accounting and the like, so when you see a net personal income, you know that and people who work on these jobs and they, I'd say, I from my experience that we're burned, the net personal income is already not allowed to give as information outside. Because of course, someone can make it easier on a child, and neither does a wife have to know that he has a relief for another child, and it really is personal data that needs to be protected. As we can see from the report and what actually saddens me that the most common cause of appeal is the one that concerns the protection of personal data. So in 2016 we had 31 complaints, and 2017. 93 complaints on the same basis, and in all aspects we try and see improvement. Only on this basis do we have three times as many complaints. Says one user filed almost 40% of complaints. Now, that's another problem. We have a citizen who I don't know, can't sleep, so remember in the morning why he wouldn't ask the city this or that. As for a very specific citizen and one, and it is possible that these data harm his protection. It was interesting to read the same in the report, find data that essentially less than 3% of the demands are submitted by journalists. It would be logical if they were the ones who needed information, wanted reliable information and got it. I know from my experience that journalists often call on the phone and get this information right away, so he doesn't need to ask for it in writing, but 83% of our citizens suffer it, as I repeat with these problems that I've talked about, it's a lot of saying that most of the time these citizens are undereducated, and even their demands, are such that they can hurt the protection of personal data, most often and hurt, and not to say that such problems create a major problem for the local self-government units and those commissioners who do these jobs. Furthermore, the cities and municipalities are obliged to have open consultation with the interested public when they make a new decision, I would agree with my colleague, Glasovac, when she said that when we also make laws in this House, we do not account, we say, I do not know, we will now vote, on Friday some law and 1 July, everyone is required within a deadline, all cities and municipalities within 30 days to coordinate their acts. We need to gather some information, now we see, when it comes to agricultural land, it obliges cities and municipalities to make their decisions on city councils, when all this preparation is done and to organise consultations with the interested public, not to say that in our coastal places, where there is almost no citizen who does not work in tourism, lives on tourism, so when we publish it in the 7th and 8th months. It turns out to be something we want to sneak through the little door and that there are certain reasons why we do this counseling right in the summer months. The town of Vodice, in particular, as well as numerous tourist resorts, has problems and has noise problems, when we wanted to coordinate our decision on catering activities, 3 mj. It was a decision on catering activities, it was on the web pages of the city of Vodice and it was the possibility of our citizens and hosts to engage and make their remarks, and I have to tell you in 3 months. Which, by mail, the mailbox, for what I would say most embarrassingly, we got three remarks. When the decision was made, then everyone remembered who put it that way, made it the same. I appeal to those who listen to us now, that it's the island law on e-consultation, so I'm also using this opportunity to get to know all those who want to read and comment. When we talk about transparency, we really need both websites and this consultation with the interested public and the more and more of these acts to be placed on our pages, in order not to happen, that for the same question, more citizens suffer from requests, the Commissioner for Information. I talked about the problems I faced as the Mayor of Vodice even though the town of Vodice of 576 units of local self-government won the award in 2016 and 2017 the highest score for transparency. Again, there are many problems and it is very difficult to please the citizens, who are asking us for information, and on the other hand, some laws deny us, not to say and punish us if we deliver these data to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86245	I thank my dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, we have several replicas, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Juričev Martinchev, just one comment, when you spoke about the protection of personal data, on the one hand transparency, on the other hand, I think this is a Croatian country, in which unfortunately, it is perfectly imagined that officials think that they can justify and reduce data, for example. about the team, because, well, they were personally at lunch with their personal friends, so that's personal data. I mean between, unfortunately, I do, but that's how we know what we are, we had examples, so between personal data and transparency, I think we should always choose transparency, citizens, it's simply the nature of public duty. So you would always choose protection of citizens' rights to keep me informed of personal data. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86247	Thank you, dear colleague Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86248	Thank you, dear fellow Glavasevic, I agree that every municipal chief, mayor, mayor, should work as transparently as possible, when it comes to representation, the budget provides for certain means, it is known how much has been spent, but the issues themselves can talk about whether it is used for the right purposes or not, but there is certainly neither the OIB nor the name of the friend with which it was lunched or dinnered. So I don't think he's here for the protection of personal data, we shouldn't show that account and expose him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86249	I would like to thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague Juričev Martinchev, the next replica, dear colleague Milorad Batinić, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86250	Thank you, Vice President. You've shown your colleagues transparency insurance, as a prerequisite and as a precaution, the possibility of seeking someone to be entitled to access information. The fact is that many environments are very active, proactively even in this, however, the fact is equally that many environments do not practice it to a sufficient extent or practically some even at all. So just here if there's a law, there's a possibility and a certain report, but I haven't noticed that penalization, if it was, is it even possible by law, did it give you any effects, your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86251	I would like to thank my colleague Babinić, colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86252	Thank you very much. A colleague of Batinić, there really are units of local self-government, who ignore a number of legal regulations, so who and these and these are not retired, which I find inadmissible, is all this requires a lot of time and this requires financial resources, then the responsibility of those who work transparently and in office because they are basically using and spending budget money, the money of their citizens for this transparency, on the other hand it can be interpreted that those who do not, not only are not transparent but may be more rational, so that money provides for something else. I think that in the next period when she comes to our benches to amend those legal rules that it would be good for certain sanctions to exist, not only when the State Audit is doing its jobs so that she might put something as a little remark and do nothing afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86253	I thank my esteemed colleague for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86254	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Juricev-Martinchev. I am also the one who said something in my debate that this is necessary and that it may be the biggest challenge to set a clear line between these two constitutional but also civil rights. First, it is the right to access information, and on the other hand it is the right to the protection of personal data. And it's really going to be very difficult, it's just as small a finer bond as to how to ensure transparency, but with the protection of personal data, that we don't get this kind of deviation that we have a chance to see going out and some personal data, medical records, some personal data about debts that have nothing to do with public funds and public money, and on the other hand, something that we should get information about where our money goes. There someone is calling not even having the right to appeal to the protection of personal data but to avoid giving it. I hope that we will succeed, but I think it will be the biggest challenge even with... because there are no much more important differences than in terms of punishing financial responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86255	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Answer to a respected colleague of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86256	Thank you very much. Well, fellow voters, I agree with you, for example. Why can you and my personal income, both in gross and online, read everyone's website on the Committee for Conflict of Interest, and then at the same time the director of an institution or director of a city firm can't get that information because it's the protection of personal data. I don't think that's right. As in debtors, if the debtors are what protection of personal data is, is it not just and should be protected by the urban or municipal budget, but depending on what means, rather than their personal data?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86257	I thank my esteemed colleague Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Commissioner for Information had a difficult way of acting. Croatian bureaucracy is not transparent and resists every effort to make it more transparent, I know it from experience. It is clear from this report that there has been progress in some areas, but for the country as we say we want Croatia to be it is too little, far too little. At the Committee on the Constitution, the Commissioner said that she preferred to reach out for education rather than for sanctions. In principle, I support such behaviour, it is for me, in fact, the concept of relations with institutions. In a mature democracy, the institution should not be reduced to the role of a gendarme who is there to slap you on the fingers when you're wrong. Institutions should be partners, they should be the basis for social life participation. In this sense, Croatia must build a culture of transparency, build awareness among citizens that their right to be informed is raised to the level of constitutional protection, and yet very often we do not. In fact, sometimes we do the opposite. Here on Wednesday, we had a proposal for a law on hunting in the first reading, and in that law it is proposed to classify data from the Central Hunting Register in order to protect someone's commercial interests. And what about the citizens' interest in having data on something that's generally good? Such a law certainly does not contribute to the construction of a culture of transparency, yet the most notable example of the violation of a culture of transparency and action is what the president of the Republic of Croatia did. Well, it's not about today, then, but I'm gonna say this. Hiding information about her transatlantic pathways and blaspheming the truth about who's throwing her birthday parties and private dinners, the president's right to be informed. It's a right that she should protect, it's a pure perversion of the honorable duty that the citizens have entrusted her with. Finally, I would like to say that the lack of prescribed transparency among other things allows religious fundamentalists, radical non-conservative associations to hide information about their finances and thus play dirty, act politically away from strict control rules for policy action. Step by step, this does not help them to bring down the achieved demographic standards. Think about it, colleagues and colleagues. Transparency and availability of information are the cornerstones of freedom and democracy, it is up to us to safeguard these freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86259	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. We have a final word on behalf of the rapporteur, the esteemed Mrs Anamari Musa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86260	Thank you. I thank the distinguished MPs and MPs for their constructive proposals and criticism. I'll look back briefly on just some of them and some of the questions that have been raised. First of all, the Commissioner is one person, one state official, and therefore the only institution in which there is only one person with the president who can decide. So I would just like to clarify that, Mrs Katica Prpić, the State Secretary, is here on behalf of the Government. The same Commissioner sought maximum savings over the past five years with a minimum budget to carry out a whole series of functions including the implementation of the European Directive. Last year, we received obligations under the Law on Archive Paper, which is in charge of the Environmental Protection Act. This year, the introduction of an inspection control obligation for the accessibility of the website or network sites for disabled persons is being prepared. So, we comparatively of all European Commissioners have the least people, the most work and the smallest budget. Besides, I mean, as much as you know I've said since day one that I'm going to put an emphasis on education, I'm coming to them with academic communities. I believe that sanctions are not achieved, that it is only an effective threat to sanctions, and possibly sanctioning here and there, and that it is necessary to educate, so I think, I must say that I cannot accept the comments that there has been insufficient education, we have held almost one education every week and another 40 promotional activities. So over these five years, we've been doing nearly 3,000 people, and if you compare that to any independent institution, it's absolutely incomparable. It's measured in hundreds more than that that we've done. We do web education, I'm very sorry that we don't have enough resources and people to be present in every corner of the Republic of Croatia every day. That's why we started the webinars to attract as many people as possible. Let's just say, on the last one, we had 80 information officers who were listening to personal data. As far as this is concerned, I would like to point out that it is known that it is no longer possible for us to get what we have from the Croatian Parliament, and we are the Commissioner of the Croatian Parliament, not someone else's, but this Parliament. Well, I'm appealing to you, I'm happy to, and I'm sure my successor will, too, invest as much in education as possible. So, I say, almost one week, 40 in a year. As far as this question is concerned, what we often do against it, against those bodies that have not appointed officials because we do not have websites. I'll warn you that 890 bodies that don't have a website and don't have an information officer, it's about firemen, older and powerless homes here and there, here and there, about some kindergarten, about such bodies. You really think, you expect with 12 people I'm dealing with the fact that a firefighter has to put on a website how much water or hose is paid or do I deal with government and local units and ministries. I have to channel resources towards what's important to the citizens. We unfortunately have several cases with DVDs, but these are cases that you describe where a citizen simply looks for sea and sea information, which I say again is pointless from my perspective, but I also have to act by law. As regards these substance remarks, which is personal data, counselling, etc. As far as consulting is concerned, we have repeatedly said that the main problem of public consultation and lack, an insufficient deadline for public inclusion is a poor organisation of the process of adoption, or delay. It is not for evil purposes, but always a deadline, so our recommendation was always to give a little caution when the law is passed and when general acts are adopted to do so in good time, to leave enough time. So that's the first thing. And another thing, what you said yourself when the law is passed and when you commit local units or any other bodies to harmonize, to be realistic in terms of requirements and deadlines, because some things simply cannot be done. We were buried in January with questions of local units because they had to coordinate some of their general acts according to certain laws. They just couldn't physically do it. Then we're just, what could we do? We said try to watch those deadlines another time, but we just don't have anything to say. But we still have to say something because we have to react to this situation. I'm just not saying that anyone here has a bad intention, it's just not a coordinated enough good process. As for the general public debate, I must say that citizens are not sufficiently involved. What you mentioned. But it doesn't have to be a local unit, especially a local unit, let's say working hours during the tourist season. It's something about everyone. The local unit should organise some kind of debate, invite representatives of the caterers, representatives of the citizens, and then discuss it a little bit and then also conduct an Internet consultation. So, there are other ways, we also recommend it because I know that it requires resources, all of this is clear to me, but in some of the more important things, the more important issues that concern everyone is just to avoid after the reactions that could actually be prevented, here we are constantly recommending it to local units. And so are the ministries. As far as hunting is concerned, you mentioned hunting, I must say my recommendations are not respected either. We have repeatedly made recommendations on the opening of certain databases, etc. But they didn't respect me either, so here, I don't know what to tell you about that. I think it is a personal responsibility or responsibility of every public authority to really come from the recommendations and opinions given by citizens and professional bodies, etc. It was to be taken in good faith, to make the regulation as good as possible, and as much as possible. As far as hunting is concerned, that's exactly what we've had multiple problems about. But I don't know what to tell you. I can't force anyone to respect my opinion, even when it's backed by the law. And finally, here's the last thing I'm going to look back on about various bodies. Football and other sports alliances are according to our interpretation of the body of the public authority according to this unfortunate terminology, but according to the provisions of the law. Since they have a monopoly on setting up a social activity system. Here's football, there's bowling, there's a third card union. You can't deal with football professionally or in any orderly system outside of the football alliance. And he also has certain powers to regulate the competition system, to determine the statuses, all of these are the powers that the law has given him, and there are no questions there. As far as the content of these specific requirements for access is concerned, I would not enter it, but as regards the status of the public authority body, the same as the HBOR which has clearly established the Republic of Croatia and given it the financial resources of several billion kunas is the body of the public authority. Whether credit users should be published or not, the High Administrative Court has also taken its stand. I wouldn't go further into that data. As for these concrete questions that MP Batinic has asked, we will be happy and we are really at our disposal with various concerns of help. I am personally available 24 hours a day and almost daily fast-tracking and it is clear to me that there are doubts, it is clear to me that, all of these, citizens are asking complex questions and council members are asking questions, noting that council members and their questions are governed by the Law on Local Self-Government, Statutes, and I think this should be managed and we have made a recommendation on the matter of first sighting this regulation. Of course, along with these fences set by individual regulations that protect certain data. As far as personal data is concerned, and you mentioned yourself now several times, we are, we are, we are already almost prepared, a guideline on the difference between personal data and public data, which are actually personal data. But there is no doubt for us, because the EU Regulation did not make any difference compared to the previous period. Is that equally available or equally unavailable, what... It actually works, forces big companies, big systems to take better care of big databases. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She doesn't touch it, whether my salary, my qualification, or yours will be available to the public or not. There is a constitutional provision of equal access to public service, and we come from this when it comes to data relating to officials and public officials, that actually, for that very reason, everyone has the right to know, what a qualified person is and how much he is paid to do a job in public service at any level. I don't think there's a particular legal problem here. Of course, in certain cases, it may be about... Cases and what you mentioned about net and gross wages, I agree with you, I am the same state official and my net salary is available, however, until recently my net salary was available to the former employer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Incidentally, the public sector, but it could have been private, which, in my opinion, is also too unnecessary. But what is certainly public need to be explained. And what you're saying, the public doesn't know. This is now the answer to the question that the lady's representative, the esteemed Sunflower Glavak, mentioned about information to the public. We, I mentioned in the report in the assessment of the situation, namely the Government and the Croatian Parliament as good examples, examples of good practice regarding public publication of sessions, video transmissions, the availability of this information, is indeed so. However, I cannot inform the public that the government is indeed one of the few in Europe who does so. The bodies of public authorities must speak for themselves positive examples and convince citizens that they have the right to trust, that is what is missing. And what you're saying, people don't know what pay is. Yeah, I mean, there's got to be some information to the public, what's the ratio of gross and net wages. Well approximately, he doesn't need to know on the lip whether you're getting 12000 or 12300 kn, but the citizens need to be informed. And there's also the role of the media, which also, once uninformedly, transmits information, so here I am from these discussions, different things I've heard, same many things, which wasn't exactly like that in the media, and neither is information the way it is. I think I've said everything I've been meaning to say and thank you for your patience and I'm glad there's been a lot of comments and debate this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86261	Thank you, Mrs. Anamari, for this final word, we have several replicas, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86262	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about the right to access information, let's remember this High House and remember all the county city councils, imagine not to pass on the session of the Parliament, that no session of the Parliament is recorded, and that someone is going to go into business to make it impossible for this House to go to all sides of Croatia. First, this is exactly what is happening on the city council of Slunja, where it is going into the initiative of amending the Rules of Procedure, to disable recording and to prevent the transfer of these sessions. The same experience was experienced by the councilmen of the Living Wall in some Zagreb neighborhoods. Well, isn't that a violation of the citizens' fundamental right to access information from a place where decisions are made on them and their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86263	I thank the Commissioner, Mrs Musa, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86264	Yes, I agree with you, as I was saying in the introduction, only in those cases where it is possible, by law, to limit the public discussion of such bodies, so that's true, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86265	I thank you for your response to the esteemed Mrs. Musa. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86266	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As a clear comment on this story about the salaries of officials and the representation, I think both data must have the right of absolute citizens, including gross and net. And as for the team, a little bit of teaching what my colleague Juričev Martinchev and I were saying, I think in retrospect, when I was assistant minister, one thing I'm sorry we didn't do, that we didn't really scan the accounts from the team and publish them on the Ministry's page. It's in some countries the standard of how it's done. We literally made everything available to the media, including those scans, but actually, it's the same why education is good. If I had known or seen that we could do it before, we would have done it because it increases citizens' confidence in institutions, in Croatia we have a crisis of that trust and therefore we must do everything... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86267	Thank you, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, for the answer, dear Mrs. Musa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86268	I'd just like to warn you, as far as the net salary is concerned, and it's European practice, when the net pay is published, then it's never published on the lip, but in categories, in which case it would be a net between 12 and 13 or between 7 and 8 but it would never say 7632 because you could find out through that, these are other personal data like disability, no. children, minors, I mean these things are not real, even when it comes to officials and officials in a private domain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86269	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Anamaria Musi. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of the Sunana Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Commissioner, you yourself have said a few old ones I regret that you may not have pointed them out sooner or perhaps suggested certain legal changes. First of all, I would like the structure of the information officers, i.e. their expert prepares, and who people have actually said colleagues, counterpart Batinić, who is also mayor, colleague Branka, who was mayor, to see who these people are and whether they are the information officers put there and have to do their job. That would be extremely important, and how much their responsibility was in relation to what they originally had to do. Secondly, it might be good, especially from the local self-government unit, or from lower levels, to ask the Commissioner for some cases that clearly put them in a dilemma. We've had examples here that meet in practice and in conclusion if, and you mentioned firefighters, health homes and the like, They're doing some number problem here, and then I think it's time that maybe they're not the bodies of the public authority at all, or we're gonna excuse them, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: I thank my esteemed colleague Glavak.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86271	Comrade, please hold your time. Answer, Your Honor, Commissioner Ms. Musa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86272	I thank the most respected representatives of the Sun Glavak for the idea of an analysis of who they are and what information officers are doing, and I am also sure that there will be very interesting results, especially in that part that they actually do almost nowhere but do this work but do some other work, whether they are secretaries or heads of certain services or speakers, etc. I thank you for the firemen, I think they should stay, so it's not a problem in everyone, but you have in some groups of those small bodies of those who just can't or can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86273	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Anamaria Musa. Next replica, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86274	Thank you, Vice President. Well, Commissioner, if I understand correctly, I think I have, it means that public consultation is not considered just by e-consultation in treatment or in your position of interpreting the right to access information. What's this about? I presented a certain decision to the public at a public consultation in the hall. I went to 5, 6 locations all over the administrative area and then it didn't reach the city council but 15 days, e-consultation plus. Now, was I right about the counselling that took place since the start of the tour, the tours were in the next two weeks, so that it was satisfied with that form of 30 days? One practical question. I think that if I understood your explanation correctly, it would also be acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86275	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić. Answer, dear Mrs. Musa, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86276	Yes, hello, reasonablely, logically you informed the public that the regulation was passed, you conducted counseling, it's a good practice, it would only be a good solution if the parallel went both ways, so that online was parallel for that time, but well, we wouldn't be critical of you there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86277	I thank you for your response to the esteemed Mrs. Musa. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86278	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Commissioner, you are, I would also like a few words to this consultation with the interested public when bringing acts to cities and municipalities. You suggested that people be invited to organize certain stands, so here, from that experience of the decision of the Noise Act, the decision of the catering activity, I can tell you that then we organized with the Chamber of craftsmen, the host company, especially the tourist community, we specifically sent our enquiries to local committees. Obviously, that's why Vodice was getting a high degree of transparency, but I would somehow divide our citizens into two groups, those who are interested and who will send countless questions and requests for access to information and those who, after making a decision, will comment on what I would say, in the cafe and when they intervened in time, would not, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86279	Thank you, Mrs. Musa, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86280	Thank you. That's exactly what this is all about. It's not that you've spent online counseling, that it's been 30 days, it doesn't serve anything, it's more important, so the most important thing is that people had a chance to get involved. And what you said yourself is a key problem, and as far as the request for access is concerned, and as far as consulting, information, citizens are too passive. And these figures also show that most of the demands are filed by a few people, people are too passive because they don't believe they're going to get an answer at all. We have a special folder on our internal web where there are various thanks and letters of enthusiasm for citizens who say you won't believe, I solved the problem in one day, people don't believe they'll get that information. So I think it's crucial, especially at the local level, that citizens get animated, that they get involved, and that's where every unit has to work for itself and we have to do for ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86281	I thank you for your response to Mrs. Musa. Next replica, esteemed colleague, Marco Vesligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86282	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a little bit of what I'm going to do is I'm also going to relate to these replicas that relate to involving citizens in the process. So I think good moves can be made with a little will. I come from a local unit that was once one of the most innovative in the Republic of Croatia, but here after only one year of office, it was 2014, we went to the very top of transparency. What you mentioned, websites are not enough anyway, we should use perhaps some other modern technologies, indeed saddening such examples from Slunj that instead of going in the direction of greater openness, some local units are trying to close. One big task ahead of us, not only in front of you as a state organisation, but I also think of civil society associations, a civil society that unfortunately doesn't have the right support it should have, for example. GONG who has one great project and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86283	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Squirt on the line. Answer, Mrs. Musa, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86284	Thank you. I agree, you have pointed out a very important thing and it is a certain inactivity of civil society associations, which because of the focus on other things because they think that everything is settled here in this area and because there is indeed a lack of funding for local associations because there are not enough projects and support in that sense which would then deal with transparency and the suppression of corruption. It's not a problem right now, it's actually a current problem for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86285	I thank Mrs. Musa for her answer. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86286	Thank you very much. Madam Commissioner, you have quite easily explained what public authorities are, so you have said that all associations are public authorities because they organise something and if you knew how associations work and how you get to the roof sports association, then you would see that the least in some village that are organised by citizens because, by the delegate principle, it works in a completely unequal way. You have a State Sport Office that defines the rules under which sports activities take place in Croatia, you have an International Olympic Committee, actually a HOO that does its job, but nowhere in the Associations Act does it say that associations are with, even with public authority. So you can't say things that easily. Why? Because it creates confusion in people, transparency in business and openness is one thing and public authority is another. Because you, say, running the first football league can be trusted by some private organization. You don't need that at all, you can do that, here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86287	Dear fellow Shucker. Mrs. Musa's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86288	I don't think we understand each other, I didn't say that everyone, all the bodies of the public authorities, is really not. I said it was a case for roof sports associations that organise a competition system and determine their status because they decide on the rights and obligations of other persons. So it's been established, I haven't been easy to get to it, I understand, and I've had a lot of doubts about it, but we've actually been through the process and we've found that it's a matter of fact but I don't think anything is, nothing changes that mattered to things because associations have to be transparent under the Association Act anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86289	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86290	Thank you very much. You said that associations such as the Croatian Football Federation are a monopolies in that part of the football group, associations that have a monopoly in social events that should be made public, especially if they are wanted by politicians, officials, local politicians and how they can influence this case to publicly announce to whom they pay their trip to Russia, before and for what reason. That's what citizens need to know, first of all, fans need to know because fans' groups have led to certain,... They're Torcidu, the BBB, they say they're like this, but the fact is that they're the ones who moved some events on sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because you can't let a monopoly, who has, use it for his own interest or some conflict of interest. And why shouldn't politicians and officials of all levels be published? What's the reason, you tell me? Why are certain politicians here opposed to publishing this? I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86291	Thank you. Dear Commissioner Ms. Musa.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86292	I'm usually a fan of the football league and I'm a fan of certain clubs of Dinam, for example. and my child is training football and I have nothing against the football alliance but I can imagine a situation where HNS publishes a list of all officials who are paid to travel to Russia and all of you who are debtors and I, who am an official, know that we have recently received in a mailbox, in an email box from the Committee of Conflict of Interest to watch out when we go to Russia. I'm not going to Russia, but if any of you go to the world primarily... Yeah, and it's not a secret thing, it's what, it's not a secret thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86293	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86294	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Commissioner, therefore we know that just by adopting and the Law on the right to access information has been raised indeed and your efforts all these years that we have achieved a certain degree of transparency. However, here as it is at one state level, it is not enough at local level to make it possible, for example. e-consultation, such as not enough at local level, may only allow for budgetary insight or to announce that there is some kind of tribune. As e-consultation does not always get enough public interest because, because, and research shows that there is a very small number of accepted remarks. On the other hand, and at local level, people are not sufficiently involved because they do not trust local units that their comments will be accepted at all, and this is exactly the example of the unit that we were talking about today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86295	Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86296	I thank and agree, I said, it takes a lot, a lot of work to get citizens involved actively, so they need to reach out to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86297	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86298	Report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2017, the applicant is the Commissioner for Information. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the implementation of the Law on the right to access information for 2017 is hereby adopted, please vote. I find that a unanimous 91 vote has been reached as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86299	Now I would suggest we unite the following two points, if that's okay with you. So these are the points: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205. Proposer: Agent Ivan Lovrinović - Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the State Audit Office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 206. Proposer: Agent Ivan Lovrinović So if you agree to unite them? Here I see no one's against it, then we'll have a united debate about both of those points. I would then once again point out that MP Ivan Lovrinović is the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the applicant that this legislative proposal should both be discussed in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The applicant proposed the opinion of the European Central Bank and the debate was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? I suppose that or not necessary? Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens who follow us, it's Friday, this topic is on the agenda. Just before we heard a debate about access to information that's been going on for about three hours. If this topic is discussed for an hour, I will personally be happy. What do I mean by that? Many of the things that come into this House are important, this topic that I will talk about and the amendments to the laws that I have proposed are really very important, and the level of interest here in the assembly for this topic is how important the parties or parliamentary representatives are indeed aware of the importance of this issue. Well, that's why it's the way it is. What were the motives for the amendment of the CNB Act, which I submitted about seven months ago and, as the Vice-President of the Parliament said, went through the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament. I would point out a few things, the key reason is the amendment, or the amendment to the CNB Act, because I have noticed that Croatia is also changing that the existing CNB Act has a number of problematic provisions and that it can be significantly improved to be more transparent and that the CNB serves the development of the economy and well-being of citizens, not to destabilise the monetary, financial and economic system as unfortunately this fact has been in recent years. So let's start, why is the central bank important, and in this context the CNB Act? Little children are already early to understand the power of money. How? So they see that money can be bought ice cream, they can buy toys, so according to how they grow up they see that they can buy anything that has a price, whether it's written or simply spoken. So this bill, you see, this more or less wrinkled, dirty bill is becoming a god on earth. Why? Because when people realize that something can be bought, and that's money, then it's really the most powerful tool that exists on planet Earth, and so it's no wonder that we have a lot of books called the Gods of Money, the God of Money, etc. 'Cause it's really like that. Why do I use these picturesque expressions, metaphors? So to once again confirm what we all know is that money spins where it can't drill, that the interest in it is so much and that it's so concentrated on the power of money that it controls everyone else. On this basis, I am extracting the thesis that you know, that we have come and live at a time when financial, monetary power is, and these are banks and central banks that have become superior to all other forms of government in the country as well as in many other countries in Croatia. Those countries where they don't, they go well and they have a safe path to the future. Those countries whose leaderships have succumbed to the pressure and challenges of money, they are destabilised, and nations and states have an uncertain future. We're floating on an ocean of long and problematic financial transactions. Someone will wonder why I'm giving an introductory lecture on money, which is why dear citizens and MPs are just trying to let you know that this is an important topic. It determines our present and our future. It's not free one of the most famous bankers in history, Rohit said, give me the right to manage money emissions, and you do everything else, law, do whatever you want, dance, sing, wave flags, attack, just give me the right to do money. In that context, it's clear what he's trying to say. Unfortunately, with us, the central bank, or financial money, has also become the authority of all other forms of government. Otherwise, monetary power is not referred to as a form of government, but it is the fourth form of government and it is very important authorities to create and manage money in circulation or monetary system. Why is the central bank and monetary policy so important? So let's remember the last crisis in 2008 when central banks were in the most developed countries in the world where the crisis from America, Western Europe, Japan, etc. began, they played a key role in saving financial markets and their economies from collapse. Why is monetary policy so important? It is with fiscal policy, these are the two most important levers of the overall economic policy, and monetary policy has an unattainable advantage over fiscal policy because it works very quickly, not to say today or tomorrow. Fiscal is much slower. If it hadn't been for these historic interventions of central banks that had severely reduced interest rates and brought them down to almost zero and to zero, who knows what would happen to the US, the EU and other parts of the world today. But as it was shaking around, as central banks in the most developed capitalism lowered interest rates to zero or close to zero, our central bank kept even for a time even beginning to grow interest rates just when the economy and citizens were the worst and the hardest. That's why it's important. Otherwise, it is said that beside fire and wheels, the central bank is the third most important invention of man since it was created. Money can benefit you and damage you, the state has given the central bank exclusive law, a monopoly to settle monetary issues in one country. It means he's in charge and he's worried about how to create... money, produce it, and, on the other hand, monitor banks doing business to avoid disorder or anything that has happened in history as a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because both banks and many individuals have failed. In this sense, the party Change Croatia strongly advocates a sovereign monetary policy, that our National Bank be as sovereign as possible in the conditions of EU membership, although we have not yet taken over the euro and who knows when it will be. So, in this period, we have a complete opportunity and we are not limited by anything to order our monetary policy as it suits our economy and our citizens. Every good government, it will always involve monetary policy in its economic policy and it must serve the objectives of the general economic policy, and we see what the situation is like with us, one of which is separate and not only that, but the messages of demographicism are being sent, the one from the National Bank is being criticised, and they don't see it, so they see what they say, a thorn in the eye of the other, and they don't see the balvana in front of their doors. The importance of central banking and monetary policy, gentlemen, is an example of Italy. Look what's going on in Italy. Unfortunately, all we had was our own problems, and we don't see how much the world is changing in front of our eyes. It strengthens simply the government that is composed there, it simply wants to leave the euro area. One of the great Italians, among the world's 10 most developed countries. Countries as big as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, do not want to take over the euro. Why? During that time, the government of the Republic of Croatia, its prime minister in co-operation with the current governor, wants to join the euro area as soon as possible, even boasts that he has paid cheaply, 700m euros to the bond by 2.9-3% and says, you can see that we are in the euro zone even cheaper. And he didn't tell the people that he didn't reduce the debt by a single euro, but the old debt just replaced the new debt. Well, that's our policy. And that's how politics is run in the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen. It's a missed policy, and I'm hoping we'll take it down and disarm it in this beautiful country of ours. Who benefit most from the euro today? Germany. So she didn't accidentally say Chancellor Merkel two years ago when there was a crisis of 3 euros... A few years, if the euro fails, the EU will fail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, because it suits them the most and I totally understand why she's fighting so hard. So that's just it. A new world international order is being formed ahead of us, stressing that for these very reasons, America has started to run a protectionist trade policy and financial policy. It will force the world, and it has already been shown by their president Trump at a recent rally of G-7 in Canada that he simply put them down and showed who the leader is and that he will change relations. The globalisation we've known so far, its shape, it's just put aside. For these very reasons President Trump sent us all a message, you peoples as big and small as we are, we will have to negotiate bilaterally with each other and everyone protects their interests. He directly ordered it in his famous speech from 3-4 months ago in the UN. And that's fair. In this globalisation where Croatia has never been protected by its interests, we have only lost. And that's why all those involved must leave. Before I go to the law itself, I'll just mention more. I read yesterday in the newspaper that they will collect loans or start growing interest on loans in Croatia. We haven't seen any evidence of any CNB or anyone. In doing so, it is stated that there is a slight increase in the interest rate... , meaning in the EU and for this reason they need to start growing interest rates on loans in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see, it's this tragic situation of ours where you can sell horns to everyone without anyone answering for it. There's no need to grow interest rates in the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen. If you didn't know, there are currently about 32 billion kunas of free money in the bank accounts of the CNB. About 25 billion in kunas and about 7 billion in foreign exchanges. I repeat, about 32 billion kuna lies on bank accounts with the CNB unemployed. Well, that's understood by the elementary schoolman that if you have an enormous supply of money that stands, and on the other hand someone announces the growth of interest rates, then you see you should have interest rates falling even more, and if they're looking to grow, then you see there's no market here. Here, systematically for years, it was simply exhausting both the entrepreneur and the worker and the high interest pensioner, and it was unnecessaryly charged because the interest rates were high all the time after the crisis in 2008 when others collapsed close to 0. According to my some indicative budgets, about 50 billion kuna was drawn into account, in the name of interest, unnecessary to citizens and businesses. It's important to point out and that's why we can't go, the CNB and its monetary policy, such as it is a key rock with incentives and it's a key obstacle that we can't get out of this crisis environment. Now, let me, after this introduction, where I have simply tried to show the importance of the monetary policy of the Central Bank, transferred to the bill, which are the most important amendments, let me just say that, first of all, we do not have the Central Bank, because it is not and does not behave, has not acted and behave, as the Central Bank, which gives support to the development of the economy, entrepreneurship and stability of citizens. She spent the whole time spending high and high interest rates and unreal exchange rates draining and destroying part by part of entrepreneurs and Croatian economies. In the law itself, which I suggested about seven months ago. What is the meaning of the opinion and the European Central Bank, as discussed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Law, have I proposed 11 amendments to the existing HNB Act, why? Because the existing law last amended in 2013 proved to be in collegiate with a number of domestic laws and also with some EU directives. In this context, it was necessary to approach the amendments to this law. It is very important in this whole effort, to increase the transparency of the CNB because according to the research conducted by the Zagreb Economic Institute, it has been shown that the CNB enjoys one of the highest degrees of independence in the world, Europe and the world and that it is the most innovative bank after business in countries, among the EU countries, where even Albania, BIH, Macedonia, Malta and of course Slovenia are listed. That says a lot. However, this subject is least spoken of, until we appeared in this House and the Living Wall and some other MPs here and fellow Bulls, this is what no one has ever spoken of. It all started in the stock market and it has to end there, nothing can change. There is no democracy of parliamentary, there is nothing, until we demonstrate monetary supremacy, that is, the dictatorship of financial large capital, without being entrusted to the Parliament and the Government, that is the key message of this whole story. Now you see, I was asked by the consent of the European Central Bank, here you see she arrived on page 17. It explains 11 of my demands, which means 5 pcs. refers to the description of what I asked for as changes, page 5. is meant in this letter and the opinion refers only to why they think that the state audit should not be introduced into the CNB, be careful. ECB at 5 p.m. Explains one thing, why a state audit should not be entered into the CNB. A 5 remaining pages. refers to 10 other requirements. From this plane, it is clear that they are also protecting and are not refuting anything, therefore, they have no evidence, because in my request I made it clear that I am not bringing anything into question the conduct of monetary policy, the objectives of monetary policy, but that it just wants to check and monitor the material financial operations of the CNB as state institutions. She's the only state institution in which the state doesn't send a state audit. And therefore, it became a state in the state, which controls itself, itself ordering who will revise it, etc. So I think that man must be clear. To shorten this story, the opinion of the European Central Bank, by law on EU accession, i.e. by contracts, is not binding on us by legislators, we can take it as an opinion, however, here sits a significant number. People who see this as St. John's Day. A letter, like a directive. When someone blinks from Frankfurt, from Brussels, they jump on their feet and ask not only that, if there's anything else. See, that's why we're falling apart and who doesn't know it yet. Therefore, there is nothing here that will explain to the arguments that something is not good, but it is said, it is about Lovrinovic, as a representative, asking for this, however, we are not sure that it will end up that way. It's about attitudes, you know. Now that I've proposed it in this law, I'm going to tell you now in very short lines, first of all I've suggested since 11 changes, first of all, that the work of the CNB regularly audits and monitors the CNB every year. How did I get an idea for that? You see here is signature 17, where 17 member states are seen, meaning in the EU, or those who want to join the EU, they already have that practice, in 17 countries, their state audits, monitors, audits of the Central Bank, their work, these are regulated countries. Croatia used to monitor, and then the State Audit was expelled, it was deprived of the right opportunity to continue to revise. Why? So you try to find out for yourself. So I repeat once again that Croatia had practice after the establishment of the state that the State Audit regularly controls the work of the central bank to repeat, in financial business, materially, not in monetary policy management because the central bank, the CNB, must be independent in achieving its objectives, and there are no talks there, I think it is clear to all of us. But I don't understand why the current leadership of the CNB is so resisting both legs and arms that it doesn't come in, that the State Audit doesn't come to control them. If someone suspects your business, so you'll invite them yourself to control and tell them if everything's okay, that he says so. And if you resist it, then that's a fat reason and a reason to suspect that some fat things aren't right there, gentlemen, it has to. But believe me, since I know how things are going to work out in the end, it's important to me that you citizens, and you MPs here hear what the essential problems are. They will reject the bill's proposals, I'm sure of it, but there are stakeholders behind them. They understand what I wanted and what they want with this law. However, they protect certain stakeholders and that's the case. And dear citizens, when the next election comes, think about it well. Do they protect your pocket or protect the pockets of interest groups? Therefore, my second request or proposal to amend the CNB Act is related to the submission of the CNB report to the Assembly on a regular basis twice a year and to establish responsibility for achieving the monetary policy objectives pursued by the CNB. We now have the practice of having a representative of the CNB come here twice a year, but before it was put to the vote, then they came, I'm not here to name some people who aggressively asked not to vote on it, and they want it and now, you understand. Therefore, a representative of the CNB, governor, his deputy, comes and says what needs to be said and goes home. If they have so many rights and such independence, then they must have, they cannot have responsibility under the current law because nowhere in the law is defined for what they are responsible for. How will they determine that? Well, let us, let us call for help from the statutes of the European Central Bank and the central banks of the regulated EU countries. It is defined there if the key objective of monetary policy is price stability, then it is defined in the statute and the law that prices can be raised at an annual level up to 2% maximum. We don't have it in the law. So if there's inflation tomorrow 4%, they can say so that's stability, when you haven't defined it can be 7% stability. If they protect the stability of the exchange rate, and it has to write somewhere which is the parity course towards the euro and what is the limit of oscillation. There isn't that either. That's right, gentlemen, it's easy to defend stability and explain, there can be anything, you'll say he did. The third amendment of the CNB Act is related to the appointment of members of the CNB Council, very briefly. We have this really unacceptable practice, the fact that people who run, the governor, the vice governors, they're also members of the council, so it turns out to be picturesquely saying, they run politics, they advise themselves, they determine monetary policy and then then they check themselves and evaluate how it's implemented in practice, through banks, etc. In socialism, it was a practice for at least 1/4 members of the council to be people of the academic community, independent. And now you tell me on this example, someone will say so how can I state it? Well, I'm going to say openly that at that time, as far as this segment of democracy is concerned, it was more democratic than it is now. There are no outside members now. Furthermore, the fourth amendment, related to the employees of the National Bank, here I will briefly say that the CNB does not call public tenders for directors, Vice Governors, means executive directors, okay that they do not discuss public competitions to the outside, they do not even discuss internal competitions because there are about 600 people in that plant, the system so that internal people can compete. All such important jobs shall be determined by the appointment of a directly governor. There's no transparency, gentlemen, no quality, no competition. You see the democratic deficit here, the problems here. Furthermore, the 5th request concerns the scope of the content of the contract principle and the way in which the monetary obligations in the Republic of Croatia are met. Here I suggested one key thing that would allow more cases of Swiss francs to never be repeated in Croatia? How? It's very simple. It's picturesque. If the bank wants to grant a Swiss franc loan tomorrow, my proposal says that it has to have that amount of francs in its sources of funds. And they didn't have it when they approved before this loan, and you see how elegantly we solve this problem so it never happens again. The following bill is related to the activities of the CNB, in the open market, it is that it gives the CNB the possibility in law that if the difficult days of market disturbances come, that it can buy government bonds from banks on the market, so I followed and actually entered into the practice of the European Central Bank, EURO Zone, the US Central Bank and therefore, that is something we must have as a fuse. As far as the proposal to amend the Foreign Exchange and Relations Act is concerned, I do not have anything special to explain here, although this defines foreign exchange transactions dealing with the CNB. 8. the requirement to declare the insolvency of the credit institution and the tasks it can carry out in such a case would act preventively in the event of problems with certain banks, and we also know that all small banks have failed in order to clean up in Croatia, and what little remains remains is a constant special pressure in this direction to disappear. And wherever the CNB Commissioner was in such small banks that were declared insolvency, they went to the end sooner or later. As far as the CNB's reserves are concerned, I suggested that there be a more precise definition of the reserves, a general one, because today it's not clear, but it's all put on one pile because when it's put on one pile, then you can't tell why this is here, so everything that's here was done. And the other two proposals are related to the distribution of profits and coverage of the loss of the CNB, and the 11th proposal is related to the capital of the CNB. The capital of the CNB is 2.5 billion kuna. In an amendment to the law in 2008, it was said by then that the underlying capital had been paid by the Republic of Croatia, thus it is known who the owner, then disappeared, left out, does not write the Republic of Croatia, so it turns out that no one had paid the underlying capital. Here I was trying to bring it out in these 30 minutes, I could tell you a lot about it, but I hope there will be opportunities in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86301	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86302	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Lovrinović, thank you for this constructive debate. We could have heard more about monetary policy, I'm sorry that there are no more MPs, and the question of what kind of ratings this session is today on such an important topic. My question to you is, I don't know if you were informed, a week ago in Switzerland there was a very interesting and important referendum, and he was referring to the fact that it should actually allow the central bank to have power over money emissions, i.e.. that private banks, commercial banks can no longer make money. In the context of that speech where you were talking about the gods of money, do you think you should take private banks' power over making money and transfer it to the central bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86303	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86304	Thank you. You've asked a really super current question that's interested in the highly developed world. You see, one Switzerland came to this referendum one-third, over 30% of the citizens voted to go that way, so that's something that's waiting for us in the future. And as far as Croatia is concerned, be careful to give a full amount of money to the CNB that you have no control over, then it does not matter if you don't have a regulated system, if the central bank means she has the right from the state, the monopoly to take care of money issues, money emissions. So it must also account for the state, this Parliament above all, and then it must bring monetary policy into line that it is in the interest of the economy and development. Therefore, these are serious questions, I am inclined to the idea that private banks do not create private money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86305	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86306	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Lovrinović's. I listened very carefully to you, and something asked me to rephrase it for you. Namely, you said that the CNB has 35 billion free money, let's call free money and no matter how much money there is in the banks, we still have relatively high interest, and these high interest rates are literally as you said at the beginning concern every Croatian citizen. In fact, I think Croatian citizens are paying extremely high interest rates, and that is what the CNB is, and the Croatian government is also proof when we have the House's Law on subsidisation of housing loans here, and Article 11 says that an effective interest rate in four years of the subsidized loan can be 3.75, and then in the next fifth, sixth, seven to ten years can be up to 10%. It says how much the Croatian state takes care of its citizens, allows banks to literally rob them. But not only Croatian construction but also Croatian economy. We know how much he paid the interest of Agrokor and one of the problems of Agrokor was just too high interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86307	Thank you. Comrade Prelec, thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86308	Thank you. Dear colleague, I don't think I have much to comment on, you've repeated that 32 billion kuna lies, it's bank money, on CNB accounts. If 32 billion lies I call only this kuna part of 25 billion lies, so the offer is huge, and you need an interest rate to grow, then you see that the market doesn't work there. So someone's conducting, they're conducting the banks themselves because they don't want to lower interest rates. Well, that's what this is about. The whole time I got into politics, and I got into politics for these reasons, I couldn't explain it any other way. Now I've come to the arena and I'm going to fight for the builders to have lower interest, and for exporting entrepreneurs not to be led by a policy of exchange rate that destroys a blood-drinking person. Therefore, we want a central bank that promotes development and leads to the well-being of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86309	And the last replica of the respected representative Grodana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86310	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, dear colleague Lovrinović, you were talking about the unrealistic course and everything else the CNB doesn't do. if the aim of the CNB and our bank is to have price stability and that, as we know recently, it intervened with 405m euros in exchange for the euro to maintain the stability of the exchange rate and thus to maintain price stability, then you can confirm that it does not account enough about it, and at the same time we know how much the debt of citizens is precisely in euro which would lead to any instability leading to further escalating the number of blocked citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86311	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86312	Dear counterpart Peric, you are the chairman of the Committee of the Assembly for Finance and the State Budget, you speak one mantra that has been used for 10, 20 years to justify such monetary policy. So you see that a number of people are so threatened that they don't have people who do, they don't have bread. Both my children and your children will lose their jobs and leave this country as you defend the concept of this stability. And I'm asking you where in the CNB Act, please read me an article where it's defined what level of price stability is? How much? Please, get me out of this article, is that 2%, is that 4%? Do you understand what you're up for? For undefined stability. So when there was 3 years, when it was deflation, -1, -2% deflation, it was instability, you never said anything about it as far as I know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86313	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists will speak to the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86314	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the MOST club will accept the two proposals by MP Lovrinovic. MOST gave while he was a colleague of Lovrinović... and then we gave similar legal initiatives, and we've always heard a voice for the first time when some new political options came up at all to mention the CNB or the revision of business in the CNB, and we don't see any reason not to be an audit of the business in the CNB if it's in other institutions, there's no reason why we don't see how many recruitments are being discussed, how many wages are being employed by chefs, who are regulations for those chefs, they need to know exactly how to love food, wine, drink, how much they spend on food and drink. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why wouldn't we know that if all the other institutions were being controlled? I don't see any reason, and this law that MOST also proposed similarly as a club on several occasions didn't go through but I believe that it could go through now, I don't see any reason why the HDZ colleagues don't vote is the fact that in many other countries we have a revision of the CNB and as far as stability is concerned, that there is a Council of Stability, for the stability of financial, stability of system companies and otherwise financial stability, and that I, here I am, right now, which is why I am, to raise a criminal application against those who were sitting in the Stability and Financial Stability Council, who allowed 10 billion kuna, knowing the CNB and this Stability Council and HANFA, knowing that 10 billion kuna kuna Todoric to use without cover. 10 billion, is that stability? Is that the Stability Council, is that supposed to change or leave the same? Yeah, it's been a year and two months since I filed criminal charges against HANFA, against the CNB, and here's to ask the DORH what it did to damage 10 billion kuna, so the exchange rate without the cover that was used, and what was the direct impact on stability? It's this stability that you're calling and the CNB is the main participant and the head of the Stability Council is quite the governor. We have representatives from the CNB, so it goes to the Ministry of Finance, the minister and the people of the HANFA. Why did they keep quiet? Is that the stability we need the entire economic system to shake, that half of us will be taken by the Russians, half the Americans, we don't even know who's gonna take everything from us while we're our money. let me get that way, i.e. to endanger financial stability because 10 billion kuna bonds without covering that someone is using is a huge blow, it's just high treason, it's a hit on monetary policy. And with this law proposed by fellow Lovrinovic, whom we once proposed, but not accepted, but now it has matured time to accept. If you haven't accepted from someone else, take it. And there have been new political options that speak of this in a different way, we can't say that Prof. Lovrinović is not an expert. You can say that Miro Bulj has filed a criminal report, very strangely, very large question why me. Of the released financial experts, economists, numerous, Miro Bulj has filed criminal charges against HANFA and the CNB, waiting for me for 26 years. When the Agrokor system collapsed, you had to take pictures with Todorovic then, of course, now you're all shoeing him, I'm not going to mention the man until the moment the MOST said enough, no one should have mentioned him. And the culprits are the CNB, HANFA and the Ministry of Finance because they knew that Todorovic used money without cover, along with, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture for subsidies and other things. And that's why the young people are leaving, which is why we have a problem where the prime minister is also calling for stability, and I see a colleague from the HDZ is just calling for stability. Well, I just filed a criminal report that they threatened stability, CNB and HANFA. Personally, me, a little weird, but, well, he liked me. Financially great experts, ministers, let the symposium go, they knew that and they didn't react. This is where a number of these questions are asked, I say here on behalf of the MOST Club, we will support this, there is no reason not to support it, to change direction, to talk in a new way, and although it is here and the professor himself said, we can't have any directive, I know when we've changed the same thing about the CNB, so there are a number of directives, they've called on some kind of officials to write, that it's going to be a threatened monetary system, monetary policy. The simple state of Croatia is a sovereign state, this Parliament is sovereign. He has the right to declare our business audit in the CNB, the people have chosen us for it, and we want it well, we want it to be controlled. And those who have compromised financial stability, let the institutions investigate. I'm personally... The biggest economic collapse was, so the biggest threat was Agrokor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who's to blame? Is it someone's fault? It's somebody's fault, it's probably not the one who's working, who has a high school, that I liked to get a criminal application and that's the big question now, that's the big question why someone else who knows it hasn't filed a criminal complaint. And that's how it's been for 20 years, and that's why the situation like the CNB and its representative, that's one important institution, an important institution, can't be the Pharaohs above the Parliament and above all of us. I mean, they can implement monetary policy but they also have to account for all the damage they've done. They've done national high treason. This thing with 10 billion kunas of bonds without cover is a rank of national high treason and no one at all. The institutions, the DORH, everyone who's supposed to do anything, no one's doing anything, I don't have an answer, I'd like to get an answer to the criminal charges last year at 4 months, so there's plenty of space and time. Publicly speaking, the governor said everyone knew about it. So CNB, HANFA and mainly CNB is a key culprit to the stability of Croatia and financial and economic and economic, CNB, this should be said by name and last name. With all supporting institutions from the government, ministers who supported them and kicked them out and their bad ideas for Croatia. Here we go again, we'll back both laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86315	Thank you very much. We've got a line of respect, and I'm sorry, it can't be replicated to the club. ... Take it easy, take it easy, take it easy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you want to be a proposer, you can take five minutes, but you can't replicate. Yeah, well, we'll take it. ... No, no, you should bring it, but here you go, I don't think we should slave strictly with formalities especially that we're not even 10 in the hall together. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, but you're still holding a session. What I would like to point out here, I will repeat, two years ago, that certain political options have come in the opposition now have just begun a serious discussion on the monetary system, the financial system, their role in destabilising the financial system economy and in the collapse, in all kinds of decline. As you know, I've really stood up for it since day one, and I will stand up for it as long as I am in this House. I stood up while I was in the MOST, and I'm really sorry, I appreciate my colleague Bulja, he's the only one here and he's staying, he's remained consistent with the attitudes of the CNB. I'm sorry that MOST until it's at least 6, 7 months until it's had a great position to just change the HNB Act, because I know my colleague Bulj that you would do it right now, but I'm sure we'll end up doing it because we have to do it anyway, I call on all the political options to join up because the question of money is not a question of a particular party, we all have money in our pocket because high interest is destroying the same representatives of all the political options here as well as the unrealistic exchange rate. I completely want to highlight here what I didn't get in the first presentation. The CNB watched in front of her eyes in case Agrokor broadcasts without cover. And then one vice governor said everyone knows everything, we all know everything, everybody knew everything. Imagine, he told the entire nation in front of the cameras, and no one from there admitted responsibility for it. Because when someone broadcasts the bonds without a cover it's nothing but breaking into the monetary system because the bonds are, what, they're discounted and converted into money, into factoring, or in the bank, and eventually they have to end up somewhere in connection with the central bank. It's familiar stuff. That's what they went to prison for in Yugoslavia. That is why Fikret Abdic and a number of people also died. They say that whatever the country was, whatever it was, we know what it was, that's where the law seemed to work better. I want to point out here and it is about the proposal for my amendments to the Croatian, Croatian Law on the CNB, you see the European Central Bank insists on the separation of functions and responsibilities, meaning obligation, rights and responsibilities. And she's against conflict of interest. So you won't find in the structure of the European Central Bank that the same people, in all bodies, are just them and that they are bright and dress. And I want to do it again here because our citizens and you who follow the largest number don't know, they can't do it in the CNB that they create, they're drawing up a monetary policy that's being transferred through banks to businesses, they're changing citizens just in a week's room to evaluate what they're doing. It's a deep conflict of interest, it's a play, there's an act of transparency and there's too deep, so it's too high a democratic deficit. But everything in this country suffers and so does it. And let me point to one more thing, you see, it's been speaking systematically for years, you want to increase the amount of money in circulation will cause a general increase in prices, inflation, so gentlemen I'm a university professor at the same time. In recent years, the amount of money in circulation has increased twice, I repeat, twice. Why didn't inflation grow? Not that it didn't grow, but it went into deflation. Answer, gentlemen, you who are on the table and who are defending this system. That wasn't the case in the Euro zone, not in America, anywhere. So you have a problem with the arguments you're making. And yet to conclude, we see here that the market here is lost, here the market does not determine the exchange rate, here the market does not determine the interest rates, so where are these liberals to ask for the market to be introduced from the business of the CNB? Let's make sure that's what they're getting at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86317	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Marina Skiboli.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86318	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Lovrinovic, you were talking about an increase in inflation. I find it interesting to note that the media often misinformed the public, if the National Central Bank would re-establish so-called. primary money emissions or printing money, to automatically result in some hyperinflation. However, there are two ways in which money comes into circulation, i.e. One that should be on primary central bank emissions by printing money, and the other way is by creating money through multiple credits and deposits. I think it's a much bigger problem to create money by multiplying credits and depositing some irrational money for inflation than it is the primary emissions because money would be printed according to newly created values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86319	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86320	Dear fellow Skibola, the Central Bank is now and will always create primary money, hence its task, its function. I fully agree with you that, as little Ivica imagines the link between monetary policy, he says if he increases the amount of money 10%, he will immediately increase the price 10%, so small Ivica is thinking. I have just cited the argument, the amount of money in circulation in Croatia over the past few years, it has doubled, inflation is not at all, not at all, it has now been around 1%, and for 3 years it has been in a minus 1%, minus one and a half percent, these are very subtle issues of monetary policy, challenging, but for political purposes you can use everything to which it suits. We see unfortunately that citizens are afraid, they are afraid of us, existing structures are afraid of us because we know what to do in monetary policy as... Politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86321	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86322	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović, that we started here together for the first time, perhaps for the first time, to be heard in the Parliament in that way and spoken when we were together, remember when we had to leave the assembly, no matter how much we were then as part of the majority, means the voice was heard then and the fact is that you're right, you're an expert in this matter, that 10 billion kunas of scales are used in that impacting monetary policy and that's the fault of the CNB, the ministry and HANFA. And that's why I've filed a personal criminal report and I believe that soon, and there's no reason neither HDZ nor SDP now your law, no matter what last year at 4 months has been voted against the similar law that we've given, no matter who gave it, I believe that this one of yours is good, excellent, and I'm going to support it and I'm calling on all the MPs to support it. If we had at last at least one institution that would not be a Pharaoh, which would work in the interests of the people, not against the interests of the people, as threatened financial stability was in the case of monetary stability, in the Agrokor case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86323	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86324	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I remember in a debate similar to that when you were talking about having a problem with choosing a chef in the CNB, and that's why a public tender is being called, you know, means to the public, to everyone, and he needs to know how to love food with drinks, wine, and when you hire and you need to determine who's gonna be the director of this sector, the CEO, then nobody out there can, can't even compete inside, but the governor determines you can, you can. So we have one of those, my people, if it's clear to us, it's Pharaoh's, it's powers, there's the least democracy living in the CNB, it's a dangerous phenomenon, we finally have to clear it up. I believe that the European Central Bank must react first and foremost, before all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86325	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives of that HDZ on behalf of whom the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry what a colleague... said, what little did we do in this assembly when we talk about a significant topic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's not good is when things are taken out of context, time and space, as if we don't know what times we've lived in, we suddenly have a short memory. Well, only 15 years ago, the interest rate for the company in Croatia was 13.14% and it was practically impossible to get credit. In 2005, when the first kuna bonds were issued in Croatia, when the state was in charge, it was a general joy because it was a sign of some financial progress, etc. Today the situation is very different. Today Croatia is part of one financial market, today interest rates are far lower, today, you have seen now the opportunity to offer the state's debt, simply a great interest. But first of all, when any representative or individual proposes to amend the law, we need to give him credit because you gave it a hard time, he tried to do something to try to make a difference. But it's also not good to say that something hasn't happened before. Why? Because certain proposals of this law are archaic. Here is just the Council of the CNB, until the amendment of the law in 2013 the Council of the CNB had 13 members and were outside members of the CNB Council, were also university professors, respected analysts and were almost in the Council of the CNB more than governors and his jokes governors. That was until 2013 by a colleague and a colleague, until four years ago. The possibility of the CNB funding the central state, see when the CNB laws have changed. By the time the CNB Act was amended in 2001, there was the possibility that the CNB would lend money to the central state with 31.12. those money had to be returned. And unlike some people who talk like this, I was talking about it in this assembly in 2001 and 2002 that it's not good that it's being abolished. It may have been a process that should have been abolished in time. But I repeat, here are some things that existed in some previous laws. The CNB's advice if they were members of the outside then and if so much is said critically about the CNB's policy, so why these outsiders, what is the difference between them and these outsiders that are proposed in this law. Also, the revision, none of the MPs in this House, I'm also talking about it, and some of the other colleagues from the HDZ Club are against the fact that the State Audit is controlling the business of the part that may be related to the CNB. However, look at colleagues and colleagues, in the Law on the Review of Amendments to the Article which allows the control and audit of the CNB is very short, and in the amendments and additions to the CNB Act in the first article on the possibility that the State Audit is controlled by the CNB you have a score of 2.5 pages. And it is not at all at all disputed that the applicant inside wants a series of things to be controlled by the State Audit Office and that we can discuss this in our report the MPs of Parliament. And now we come up with one thing that unfortunately we don't use. We had a report here on the work of the HNFA, and there were so many of us in this assembly, only two clubs discussed. If you want to talk about whether HANFA responded or did not respond to the requirements and what the law defined, then it is the right place to talk about the HANFA report. And what was the task of us as Parliamentarians is that because of what HANFA had done or did not do or if it did not have the legal opportunity to initiate legal change. The same story of colleagues and colleagues, the last report on the financial situation was the governor, each of whom could ask him a thousand and one question as to the conduct of monetary policy and this and that and the governor simply has to answer it. Whether we adopt or not this financial report on the financial situation is totally irrelevant. Well, it's known by the CNB Act that the governor of the CNB can be resolved. Why am I saying this to all my colleagues and colleagues? So for the simple reason, if you look at the opinions of the Central Bank Act change, then you will see that the European Central Bank has never, ever, been free to dictate to me, feel free to tell me what you want, and then I will answer you, so the answer to this bill is physically the most common. This means that the European Central Bank has made a very studio approach to the business and has given its opinion on this as well. However, what is proposed in these amendments to the law? and to propose some other things then I would understand that it wants to change policy, the way in which the CNB's policy is conducted, but what is proposed by these changes? These amendments shall only propose technical changes. Only. You have no fundamental change in these amendments to the law that would define a different way to conduct monetary policy, which would define a different model of course policy, which in a different way would define what is constantly said here, what inflation above which it would be said that the CNB did not agree on its elemental and key task, which is price stability. So what is proposed with this law? The revision of the CNB by the State Audit Office, we are all here in the debate in this House, saying that no one is against it, is just a key question where the border is where the State Audit Office cannot continue to audit, where the external auditors continue to audit it is not defined by this law and that is what this law does no matter how much someone liked it or didn't like it should be defined. The submission of the CNB report in Parliament, when it was an amendment to the law in 2008, four times returned to us from Brussels the bill because we in law insisted that in this report votes in the Croatian Parliament, four times did not give us the green light on this law. The behaviour of the central bank, the Ministry of Finance in the economic crisis, yes, the easiest thing to say is nobody did anything, but they all forgot about the model A,B and C when the CNB fired the mandatory reserve, I think it was somewhere around 2% or 3% of the business banks, and in this way it was accumulated 4.5 billion kuna, agreed that at an interest rate not higher than 4, 4.2, 4.3% would be credited to entrepreneurs. And what happened? We had a model A, B and C. Unfortunately, what at that time, in 2009, the Croatian entrepreneurs lacked exclusively crafts, but their collateral was unfortunately such that they could not be in charge. The appointment of members of the council, colleagues and colleagues I do not know if you have read this proposal and is now asking one question, here my colleague Bulj would ask that my colleague Lovrinović hear this and answer me this. The bill proposes that after the parliamentary committee conducts the debate, it determines that the governor has the conditions to be elected, it is said that the Croatian Assembly proposes the appointment of governors by the President of the Republic or the President of the Republic. Now what happens if one political option or one reflection in the Assembly and the parliamentary board and the parliamentary majority thinks someone should be the governor of the CNB, and we here say that the president of the state proposes the governor of the CNB if he proposes another man. The law doesn't say what's going to happen in that case. And that's a newspaper compared to what was before. If we are talking about the importance of this high House, doesn't it make sense that the parent board of finance, after the debate that all parliamentary deputies can participate in, proposes to this high House who will be the new governor and who will be the new vice governors? Why do you get yourself to... At the same time, our mouths are full of the validity of this high house. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I was saying in the introduction, outside members of the council, they existed in the advice of the CNB by 2013 and in the response of the central bank, it's clear why these external members can't be, for a simple reason, you, if you want people who could discuss it in scale and quality, they're in the financial world and you can't possibly separate their regular daily business from those decisions made by the CNB's advice, there's no way to do that, there's no way. A little bit so one of these people will be in conflict of interest, and then we, because it suits us politically, start hitting on these people, that one and that one was in conflict of interest, guessing this, guessing that. So let's clear up that term that's very sensitive. But I repeat, we are full of criticism about the work of the CNB and the advice of the CNB, and until 4 years ago, this advice of the CNB had outside members. The CNB's advice had outside members. So why didn't those outsiders contribute to the work? And he can say whatever he wants, but the status of both the governors and the CNB was untouchable, and when you accidentally, as finance minister, dared to ask a question, criticise, you came across a general criticism. You didn't come across the support of no academic community, no one. Because you remember how the journals started, remember the 12th month of 2008 when someone shows up says Croatia is threatening inflation, this and with Croatia, prices explode. Who stopped the price rise in the first month and put the story back? The government of the Republic [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86327	Don't yell from your bench, pal Pernar. I give you a warning from my colleague Pernar. Here you go, Comrade Shuker, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86328	Comrade Pernar, the elemental jurisdiction does not require to be cast. And I'm telling the facts. And from these facts you can't escape either you or anyone else. But when you have the responsibility of a million and 250,000 pensioners getting a pension, then it's one feeling, and another feeling is when you can lamentate it like this. But did any financial institution fail at the time of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia? Is she a failure? It's not. One of the few countries where the financial and banking sector remained stable, yes, someone should have done that, should have made it a fiscal and monetary policy. But it's easy to laugh from some time distance today. But if the debate goes in any other direction, then we'll say some other facts. Is this amendment to the law, I repeat, essentially to change the way and business of the CNB or is it something else? So Croatia should enter the course mechanism in 1.1.2020 where it should be for two years, then a decision should be taken to satisfy the conditions for Croatia to enter the Euro zone. In order to enter the course mechanism you have to do, that will end this debate on behalf of the club, you have to do three key things. One is the amendment of the Law on Credit Institutions, the second is the amendment of the HNB Act, the third normal thing to go along with this amendment to the Law on State Audit, but the full change of the law. Not a partial from which, we who know how they treated some things in the past can read about what's going on and what's going on. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, if only one bank had fallen today, Croatian citizens would not have a deposit of 158 billion savings in Croatian, these in banks, and no deposits in Croatian banks would have been 260 billion. Easily spoken words for this speaker simply send the wrong messages, and when you send the wrong messages and send the messages of instability then you raise interest rates, and the interest rates are paid by our citizens, paid by Croatian companies, paid by the Croatian state, and these interest rates are again financed by Croatian citizens through Croatia, and then paid twice by Croatian citizens. Thus, any spoken word in this high house has its own price and is not at all ridiculous and without effect. The HDZ Club, because of everything I've said, can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86329	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Ivan Lovrinović will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens. What I mean here is, why is Croatia, why is it in crisis, why we are constantly told that we live better, while our favorite neighbours, friends, their children leave the country. It reminds me of socialism, when some politicians used to say the same thing, so how can it not be clear to the people that they live better, how can they not see that they live better? Here today I am asking the same question, simply to the people who have sat here so far, long before me and these younger parties who have come. Change Croatia believes that the people who led Croatia can no longer lead Croatia, and we need to do so as soon as possible, to dismount and patrol, as the Dalmatians say. I'm sorry for these expressions not as a university professor, but I just can't take it sometimes without using a verb like this. What am I saying here? We just heard, there are people here, MPs who are witnesses of recent history, who teach us that every spoken word has weight and that we should watch what we say, and they said them, and not only did they speak, but they worked, and when they did, they plowed. And that means that the deep consequences remain and we have problems today. When it's said that the interest rates used to be 13%, so they fell to 10, so now they're 5, 6, 7 percent, and that's what makes everything okay. And I ask you, these interest rates could have been 0.5%, 1%, 0.32%, 1.2%, why not? So because you, the same people, who were then and now, are helping to fill the pockets of bankers and large capital, and the party we change Croatia, is practically the biggest problem we see not in the SDP, HDZ and that, and the HNS, but in the large capital whose servants were and are simply people who have defended and simply made it possible for them to benefit from it. In the context, you can see again, the refinancing of the 700m-euro bond, a few days ago, comes out a bridge proud of the pay phone, on the Dnevnik and says look, we have successfully planned 3 times as much interest as we have offered 700m euros, this time we are in charge of almost 3%. And I repeat, dear citizens, to you who are watching, listening, why 3%? And now I'm going to say something new, which I haven't been able to say, we shouldn't have been in charge at all. The Republic of Croatia has about 14 billion euros in net foreign reserves, net. Now, of course, typically, these economic experts from HDZ will say that this cannot be used to me as a university professor from that area. And I'm expecting such questions, too, but I'm going to give you examples, Norway, China, that have so-called so-called. ... means funds that have just been created from foreign exchange reserves and which are registered outside helping their countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, gentlemen, these are discussions at some scientific professional level, and I wouldn't want it to be understood here that it's giving someone a doctor, I'm just stating that other countries are using it, but in this country they're obviously, they're mantras. And when you've been repeating to someone for 20 years that you can't mention the National Bank, that this, that what, then people just start acting like that. Well, that's why we came here, to break up like in Italy, Switzerland and other countries, where this democratic deficit, about the financial capital of the institutions, so we're going to have to, my key intention in the name of the party to change Croatia, to explain to people, I'm going to do everything I can to present to ordinary citizens, explain, the importance of monetary policy and the Central Bank in this whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86331	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86332	Thank you very much. Dear professors, we see that here is a fellow HDZ calling for stability, not because of our spoken word, but because of interest, while at the same time collecting tolls, collecting gas, gathering fuel, means very important energy, and at the same time it accuses us, which points to the problem of the CNB that has financially destabilised the country, and they are just calling for stability. However, former finance ministers are also responsible for instability, which took place in Agrokor the same case as HANFA and HNB. And now here's the reverse story, drinking upside down, blaming those who speak and seek change, because this is not good, we have a second opinion, and they're right that they've brought the situation into line that we're in charge of not using the cash reserves, so they've made chaos and chaos suit them. Chaos suits you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86333	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86334	Thank you, colleague Bulj, this is a well-known political tactics,... And in a public appearance, attack someone to avoid your responsibility, so it's an old technique to be used. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I can't take the impression and see that there are stronger protectors and speakers here from the CNB than they would send themselves and that they actually exist in what relationship and outside members of the council, probably as defined, I don't know, either, but I have to admit that they protect the interests of this institution that isn't the central bank, it's a common exchange. And on the other hand, I simply can't say a mildly spoken surprise, this is the Croatian Parliament, it doesn't matter what political options we are from, I say central banking, interest, a bad course for exporting entrepreneurs, it must be common to all of us. This institution has to account for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86335	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coliga Lovrinović, 50 million euros in savings was only on interest in the road sector and I believe you know this fact very well and you deliberately silence it... which followed the monetization of the Croatian highways and forgot to save, possibly 2.5 billion afterwards, would remain in the new debt, which is what this is all about. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] As regards price differences or price increases from 15.6. to 14.9., it is, of course, every year from last year so that it could be financed and that highways would finance their debt and make it self-sustainable. You're a university professor, and you point that out when it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you, then you speak as a parliamentary representative. If you are a university professor and if you are a parliamentary representative then be responsible, you are talking about facts, and the fact is that Croatia first ends in surplus after twenty years because it is responsible for managing public finances and that is the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86337	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86338	Here's a distinguished colleague of the Glavak, you've already been answered by some MPs. So if you manage HAC better and you save money to collect toll. But thank you for this funding issue, you say 50 million euros have been saved. And listen now, and you're calling me for an argument, so I always speak in arguments both as a representative and as a professor, listen to this bill. The highways owe about 5 billion euros, right, 6% is the annual average interest rate that is 300m euros. At 16.17 years it was paid practically one capital was paid off, my dear colleague, about 5 billion euros was already paid interest, and I don't know that I'm not telling you how many sand bridges could have been made out of it, how many kindergartens, all that's the result of your policy and you've crushed this country and that's why we're just going to be working on disassembling what this kind of political system is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86339	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86340	Comrade Lovrinović, I would be delighted that you as a university professor have answered one of my arguments. However, I wish you another word. It is not pleasant to discuss among people who have been known to touch under the belt for years. So I'd be glad if you'd answer my advice, I'd be glad if you'd answered my country's funding, if you'd answered my other arguments. And the other thing, now you've said something 6 billion which isn't true, for 16 years, so for God's sake, HAC has been built for seven years, so it wasn't 6 billion in the beginning. Do not sell such flossules and deceive Croatian peoples. But I'm saying, if you want to get a hold of your colleague, Lovrinović, then we'll go, if you call someone, you were the Dean of the Faculty of Economics, what is the state of higher education in the Republic of Croatia, and we'll move away from the supervisory boards and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86341	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86342	The sign of nervousness and redness is always a sign that there's a lot of truth in there, and it's clearly insulting someone. I can't comment otherwise. I will answer only this question of members of the council, so it is said that it was 2013, what they did. After '13. No, so what does that have to do with people who did be everything inside the house, let everything be controlled, so that's why I'm saying it's these people, it's those MPs, it's this party that actually keeps this system alive. And what is the key consequence of all this? Which our citizens from day to day from session to session will open more eyes and learn about where the delusions, which have ruined us, which was the practice and why they should never be chosen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86343	Thank you. The next club of representatives is the Living Wall in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86344	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The greatest evidence of the absence of our country's monetary sovereignty is this latest intimidation that is being carried out through the media that is said to increase interest. And why is it going to increase interest? Now, that's the trick, they say, because Euribor's growing. However, the key question is this, why do interest rates in Croatia not be determined at an econtamination rate of the CNB but at the interest of the European Central Bank? It's a central issue and it's actually the most obvious proof that the CNB is nothing more than a big exchange, that the CNB lends money to business banks, that the money banks lend further to citizens, businesses, etc. Then we would set interest rates for citizens and businesses according to the interest of the CNB. However, since the CNB does not have the role of creating money, as the CNB does not have the role of loaning money, it is no matter what the interest of the CNB is. The CNB interest can be one million percent, it can be one percent, it's completely irrelevant. And why is that? Because CNB doesn't currently play the role of the central bank. It's a central question. And when will they play the role of the central bank? It will take place as soon as it lowers its interest rate below the European Central Bank rate, only when it is competitive. But what we are discussing here in the Parliament is not when the CNB will become a central bank. That's what no one wants to discuss except for my colleague Lovrinović and the couple of us here. You all want the CNB to remain a currency exchanger, that our citizens are terrified of whether I don't know in the EU or whether the federal reserves will raise interest. Why? Well, because he doesn't have a CNB role to play. Because there is no state audit to control their work, because the CNB is an institution above all other institutions and not one of the institutions for which supervision exists. And that's a serious problem. You who do well may not see it, Mr. Shuker. But ask yourself, are those suppliers of Agrokor who were paid by the regressive bonds as they were. They knew everyone and the governor said we all knew what was going on with those regression bonds, we knew that this was a parallel form of funding, everyone knew it all said the governor of the CNB but there's no responsibility. All responsibility has been given to people who are actually victims of this monetary model. And as for these theoretical, dogmatic stories of price stability, the year Shuker if prices in Croatia are stable, if they do not grow, or if they grow very little why today at 5 o'clock people will stop traffic on the streets? Well, due to the rise in fuel prices, Mr. Shucker, which you do not control, grow and price toll. When this LNG law was declared yesterday, the price of gas will rise, so it's out of your mind what you're doing. South Korea that buys LNG gas is now making a contract with Russia and North Korea to get to the pipeline gas from Russia that they don't have to drive LNG because they know LNG is more expensive. The goal is to reduce the cost of gas. The goal is that the country that has LNG they are trying to reach pipeline gas and we are in Croatia doing vice versa, Mr. Shuker. We who have pipeline gas do LNG terminal. And what capacity leases came up 4%, here's 4% to buy that more expensive gas. And what about when that terminal is built, who's going to pay maintenance costs? They will pay the citizens because they will transfer that cost at the end of it. And then you will continue to tell us mantras about price stability. But it's a mantra. People who go to the sea, so look what accounts they give them, how much they grow in price. You're talking about price stability. Why don't you go explain that to the people whose dinner for 8 people up to 10 thousand kunas, tell them about price stability. But unfortunately, you don't care. Recently, when you increased VAT customers by more than 10%, all the prices in restaurants and cafes jumped. Yes, Mr. Schucker, it wasn't a 2% increase, it was a higher growth but you don't care because you have a mantra price stability and you shout mantra price stability until the day of judgment. But do you know where they're only stable? They're stable here in the bar and in the cafeteria, but when you get into the city, when you get your bills, when you get your work done, when you get 700 kunas for one kuna, then you'll see there's no price stability talk. But as long as you don't find yourself in that situation, you won't understand. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you all to accept the Law, or amendments to the laws proposed by my colleague Lovrinović, because they are a positive step. And those who justify this current system can only tell them that the time that lies ahead will only bring their own judgment on them and their policy. Because this policy, which is being conducted by our people, leads to the eviction of 360 thousand people in the last few years, that the damage to this economic policy is greater than the war damage, that we, the Croatian God knows how much debt has already been paid and the debt is growing. Well, that's the basic question, Mr. Shucker. Ask yourself how much Croatia has paid back in these 27 years and what our debt is today and you will realize that we are actually a victim, that we are cornered, that it is as if you have a ball where an ant and an ant want to get off the ball, you move the ant so you move the ball. An ant doesn't realize that he's manipulative, he sees by the chemical traces that he's spinning around in circles but he doesn't know what's going on. So the Croatian people are systematically walking around that ball in debt, or rather perhaps it is said that they are descending down the debt course from which the break is going to be the final exit and you will until the last moment before the break assure everyone that everything is great. That's how Minister Maric's finances and Agrokor assured us, he said that everything is as good as nothing to worry about. How come we don't worry about anything, man, so you can see the system's collapsing? But I say to them until it comes to that final break, it's all right, eyes are closing, false statements are made, etc. And finally, Mr. Schucker, she's a company of one Alex Partners, so imagine you, gave Ramljak to them a job consulting 100 million kuna companies without employees. And imagine you're a company without employees to get a 100 million kuna job. Is that normal for you? No, but you supported all of you together from HDZ, Minister Dalic, singing the praises of Ramljak and her. I remember it was like yesterday when we were standing there, when we questioned them after a year of extraordinary administration which are the results and you held the ladder for them all there and now that she fell and now you say it isn't like that and now you say that, at the end of the year, the breakdown of Agrokora came, is, but you're always until the last minute convincing that everything is okay, and so is this debt model that's going to sink us all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86345	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Look what's here, which I especially wanted to say. I apologize for not saying hello immediately, I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Finance who listen here to this conversation and I would like to say that in the regulated systems of the amendment of the Central Bank Act, the Ministry of Finance is initiating it. However, unfortunately, I have not seen, if I am wrong, ask you to deny me, that the amendments to the CNB Act have ever been initiated by the Ministry of Finance, and especially since 2008 and 2013 why? Because it turns out that the proposal for the CNB Act is before 2008 and '13. Here's to limit ourselves, they wrote themselves people from the CNB, you know, it turns out I write the law for myself as it suits me. And now you see, what role did the Ministry of Finance play? Unfortunately, it's just the mailman. So between the CNB to come into the procedure to the Croatian Parliament and in such a way as to win, let's say in this way by the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. I can tell you that in certain countries, serious countries such as Britain, Germany, that the Ministry of Finance in certain countries determines the level of interest, that in some countries even the Government is wondering and determining what the exchange rate will be, which is incomprehensible to us, for those who do not deal with it, and I don't blame it. But I will now read to you a letter from 2016, very briefly only some parts, where we, and at that time in the Assembly, have asked the Governor of the CNB, the current governor, says: Dear Mr. Governor, the Croatian Parliament would particularly appreciate that you provide us with an insight into consent, or we may ask you to consult the European Central Bank on a number of amendments to the 2008 CNB law and small minor amendments to the same law from 2013, which are entirely "produced" in the CNB, and unfortunately contain numerous nomotechnical failures and are in the conflict with several Croatian laws. From the current archives of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the CNB, it is easy to verify that the amendments to the CNB Law so far have gone through the same administrative legal procedure as the current proposed amendments to the CNB Act, and we take the liberty to conclude that, at any cost, the adoption of the necessary important amendments by the CNB. So what was the writer going to say? Now that I have submitted a proposal to amend the law, an opinion has been asked for, the consultation of the European Central Bank. When 2013 changed, no one asked for anything, then it could go away, smart enough about it. So what else is there to say about it? Therefore, here it has been embezzled into the laws so far, amendments to the CNB Act exactly what it was to which it corresponded, to individual stakeholders. The proposed amendments to the CNB Act are not only compatible with the private interests of the current management of the CNB, which the CNB as the central bank of the Republic of Croatia has fully subjected to the personal needs, as you personally, of your closest associates, of interest lobbies in the country, and of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. This is in a letter signed by the three committees, sent by three boards of the Croatian Parliament, for European affairs, finance and the state budget, and for the legislation, in 2016, it was still asked, that is, what are the laws of the CNB so far? So the Croatian public finally needs to be explained whose interests are being run by the CNB, why is it so opposed to entering state audits and hands and legs, if all is well? Why so much fat money is paid to private auditors' houses, instead of the state audit doing so, as is said of the cost that is otherwise reflected in it. So here it is clear that our task and my task, to expose, open a serious debate in Croatian society on these topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86347	We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86348	A colleague of Lovrinović's. It's amazing how much you're telling the truth, amazing. Since 2013, let's start by looking at the debates on the CNB Act, and you'll see who asked if there was an opinion from the European Central Bank? This opinion was not invented by anyone in the European Central Bank, which is what Croatia simply negotiated. I told you here at the pay phone, the 2008 law. He's been returned four times from Brussels, because we've initiated some things inside that Parliament can question the heads of the CNB, these are the truths, these are facts, and you can verify that. But you keep trying to prove that no one in this country has a clue, only you know something, I respect it. I've never told you that you don't understand something or you don't know it. But I said the doctoring limit exists, so don't let me start. I repeat, the law on the obligation to pass examinations for supervisory committees and we will open the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86349	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86350	You're obviously mixed up in this last thing you're saying, dear colleague Shucker, everything's open to you. However, it is not my task here to prove to someone as far as I know or do not know, but to simply point to the unbearable practice of forming and implementing monetary credit policy and, above all, the work of the CNB material financial business why the state audit cannot go in. And the other 10 demands to define whose capital was paid there, to return the provision that the paid capital of 2.5 billion paid by the Republic of Croatia, that the advice must be entered by external associates, in order to achieve greater transparency, that is all I ask. I don't understand why someone is now threatened when these are the most normal suggestions they are and I'm totally normal about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86351	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Grosdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86352	In fact, we can only discuss putting ourselves in the time and space we live in, as if we haven't been an EU member since 2013. In fact, I'm surprised that you've neither heard nor recognized the EU's operating agreement that we've joined, which we've also given certain suggestions, which are in one way binding on what we've signed, and in all this, as you're interpreting it, it turns out that we don't have to respect for anything and that we're independent, which we can define everything as we currently desire.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86353	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86354	Dear counterparts Peric, so I am just insisting on this, on European standards, the Statute of the European Central Bank, again I ask you why the CNB Act says that the key objective is to maintain stability and prices, is not stated, as it says in the Statute of the European Central Bank, that this level is up to 2% annual. So you can see that I'm using the arguments of the European Central Bank, so I don't know what else I'm supposed to say here. Those aren't my personal demands. I wanted my proposals to amend the law exactly, the more I included the practice of the European Central Bank, nothing else, that's what it is. A high level of transparency, not to overlap certain powers and responsibilities in this whole story and to prevent conflict of interest. It's not here at the European Central Bank, it's here as much as you want, and that's why we need to change it, we need to change that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86355	Thank you very much. Now we're going to an individual debate, the first to come forward is Honored Representative Marin Skibola, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86356	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At the beginning of the debate on this proposal, I expressed regret that there are not many MPs on this subject, however, I am now expressing an even greater regret, because we are not only twice as small, but three times less. But it's obviously consciousness at such a level that actually these topics aren't so important. As for the State Audit in the CNB, on several occasions such legislation was proposed in the Croatian Parliament, Most has suggested such a thing several times, while you Mr. Lovrinović were at the Most, you must have emboldened it. However, in this respect, HDZ and the SDP have refused such bill proposals in line with the big coalition ahead. The question arises, why did they reject such bill proposals, when we know that the CNB is a public institution and you have also stated that the Croatian state has laid down the basic capital of €2.5 billion in the CNB, and therefore, the state audit should also enter the CNB and check the operations of the Central Bank, since there have been speculations about spending too much money on travel, that too much money on certain material costs, and we also know that when it comes to the Croatian Parliament, often it does not try to answer questions specifically and decided. What to say on this subject is that the current state audit practice is not in line with most EU countries, and you have also stated that one 17 countries within the EU, has a state audit in their central banks, and then I don't know, which prevents Croatia from sending a state audit to the CNB as well. As I understand from Mr. Shucker's debate, Mr. Shucker said that he personally has no objection to the state audit entering the central bank, however, I do not know why HDZ has consistently rejected such bill proposals. And if you don't like the bill's proposals, which come from the opposition, with Most being in power then, then why don't your bill come directly from the HDZ, so we'll certainly be able to support it, if that's the plan for the state audit to enter the Central Bank. What we need to know, we need to know that the CNB is one of the most innovative banks in the EU, so that can be an additional reason for the State Audit to enter there. The CNB uses commercial audit, and this commercial audit is simply paid from the institution directly, from the same institution, and then the question of objectivity and commercial audit is raised, because it is clear that whoever pays you to do so is going to do that audit. Because if they don't like it, if they don't like the results of the review, they're going to change the simple house that's doing that audit. So the hand that gives is always above the hand that receives. It is therefore necessary to enter some neutral institution of public interest and to verify the business of the CNB. In the opinion of the European Central Bank in your law, Mr Lovrinovic, there are also some positive criticisms, but somehow it is more and more a neutral stance and I feel that the European Central Bank is defending this system of not entering a state audit into the National Bank. You mentioned certain mantras often repeated in public, one of these mantras is the independence of the central bank. According to the CNB Act, the central bank is an independent institution, but we know that the central bank depends on politics and that it is deeply dependent, not only is it deeply dependent on certain financial interests and the governor of the central bank is elected whether through policy, means through the Croatian Parliament, and also the vice governor, so that we cannot say that it is absolutely independent and that it is a state in the state and that no one needs to be accounted for. As far as this dogma of independence of the central bank is concerned, I would say that it is a dogma, regardless of what is legitimate in the CNB Act and what the European Central Bank advocates the independence of the central bank, economic colleges do not question whether this independence of the central bank, and in this segment is meant for independence from the executive government, whether these independences should be at all, means never being discussed among the scientific community whether these independences should be and why the executive power should not have an impact on the central bank in creating monetary policy. Because we know that monetary power is one of the most important governments throughout history and those who have created money, they have actually ruled, and democracy and systems have adapted to those who have had that monopoly over making money. As regards the Council of the Croatian National Bank, it consists of 8 members, made up of the Governor, Deputy Governor and 6 vice governors, the Council of the CNB is the highest body of the central bank and is responsible for achieving the objectives and implementation of the tasks of the CNB. As far as your proposal is concerned, you have stated in your proposal that, in fact, the advice of the CNB should include independent experts and I support such a proposal, I believe that independent experts would certainly contribute to a certain reality and that we could better advise the governor because such a model as we have, where the governor chooses advisers by his appointment and directly, and then Parliament confirms it, means actually politics sets them up, then we have a situation that these advisers are loyal and loyal to be, but the question of extremeity and loyalty is raised. So if you see any negativity, if you notice a poor monetary policy being implemented, if you notice illegalities, then it's your duty to say that, to point that out. However, this loyalty, both in politics and in many segments of life and society, crosses certain boundaries, and then it is no longer the real loyalty it should be, but some blind belief and escape from responsibility and guilt. In the CNB bulletin number 233 on page 118, I have this extract from that bulletin, the first members of the CNB council are listed, and then the members of the CNB leadership, and here they are actually members of the CNB council and members of the CNB management of the same people. Then I wonder how members of the CNB's council should consult the CNB management institution if it's the same people? So there are definitely the needs to change such a system and you have well stated it in this bill, especially when we know that the advice of the CNB in the past time has not worked socially responsiblely. Why didn't he do a socially responsible job? Because, for example, in the case of the Swiss franc affair, in the case of emissions from these toxic Swiss franc loans, none of the members of the CNB council or governor of the National Bank have warned the Croatian public, Croatian society that such a thing might happen. And then we had great consequences, a great responsibility, a debt slavery that today cannot be solved and we see that the government is also trying to in these segments, by amending the Law, by amending certain other elements of legislation, to improve the situation. But the government doesn't get into the essence of the problem and it doesn't get in the monetary policy that you're pointing out is actually a central issue. And I personally think that this is really a central issue because the money mass definitely depends on the liquidity in the system, and if we have a system where there are bigger debts than the cash mass itself, then we see that something with monetary policy is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86357	Thank you. We have a replica of one respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86358	At the end of my debate, I said three laws must be passed soon. Amendment to the law or to the new Act on Credit Institutions, on CNB and on State Audit. At no point does anyone from HDZ object to a state audit entering the CNB. We just want to make it clear what their job is there. The second thing about the CNB's advice, until 2013, were those external members, and you heard a number of criticisms today, so I can even say the word spitter on the work of the CNB during that period. Now tell me the names of Professor Orsak, Professor Lokin, Dr. Lovrincevic, Dr. Svaljek, Professor Cota, Professor Leko, Dr. Novotni, I don't really know if Dr. Vedrish, the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance. Is that a bunch of bozos that someone could manipulate on the HNB's advice and that they didn't want to bring anything out in public? So let's not jump into our own mouths. If we're saying something wasn't right, and now we're asking for it to be done again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86359	Thank you. The answer of my fellow Scybols.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86360	Mr. Schucker, I'm saying what the facts are, and the facts are so that HDZ has rejected the National Audit Act's proposal twice. Is that true? That's true, so the truth is HDZ refused and I was talking about it. And I said you suggested it, i.e. that you said in the future you would propose a law, in which the State Audit will be able to enter the Central Bank, but I see that you haven't done it yet. It's law enforcement, and the government hasn't announced it anywhere. She announced amendments to the Implementing Law, amendments to some other laws, however, I am not informed that the government has announced an amendment to the HNB Act. It's the first news, so I welcome it anyway, we'll see the content of that law. As for the advice of the CNB and those people you instructed, I didn't say that these people manipulated them, I just said that these people didn't carry out their duty in those moments, since the consequences were catastrophic with the Swiss franc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86361	Thank you. We now have on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Lovrinović will speak again, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to welcome the announcement without, therefore, that the ruling want the state audit to enter the CNB as counterpart Shuker just said. You see, unlike your party, I now welcome an understanding of politics, what the party is proposing to change Croatia, and you will not accept it now, but we must turn to a new political culture, see I will be the first to support, if this law comes on the agenda. I offer what I know, and the party We change Croatia, it will selflessly help if it is necessary to create this law, provisions, because it is important for all of us. But let's go, according to one new political culture, not to throw away anything that comes, so nothing's wrong. It can't be anything wrong. We have a thick political negativity. So whoever suggested 10, 11 is no good. But let's let it go now. Why did I suggest that the president of the state or the president propose governor of the CNB, so I didn't dream it or that it was my invention. Well, in many countries, both in the EU and in the world, it is a practice and practice for the president of the state to propose a candidate, i.e. to decide who will be governor of the Central Bank. Well, isn't that understandable because if you have a parliamentary system, half-presidential, that's very transparent. Here is the problem, who has the parliamentary majority, will, and who is now making proposals, be given the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which means, it is, it is, it is, it is, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it's, it's, it' it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, Well, isn't it clear to everyone that whoever has the majority in this assembly will simply have most of the Committee on Finance and the state budget and legislation. Therefore, this man too will be appointed and everything remains under one cap. I consider this proposal to be a contribution to increasing transparency, democracy, separation of functions, one positive pressure, not to say, competition and a greater view, or competence, between the functions of the president and the diameter of that system. I want to say something else here, why this system is bad, why we are exhausted by high interest rates, which are the worst consequences of this poor monetary policy, the unrealistic exchange rate, which kills exporters, and especially high interest rates. Well, here's what I'm trying to say, to be heard, in the last year, petrochemicals, which has become, unfortunately, a patient, and once doing excellent business, it only last year, for interest rates had to be allocated to 45 million kuna. I repeat 45 million kuna. Well, my people, no one can survive with such interest, and still as co-financed by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development with 5-6% imagine. At 5% or 6% interest rate, no one can survive, let alone be competitive on the market. Petrochemy, with a exchange rate like this, deeply unrealistic, cannot be practically competitive in exports. It suffers as damage, increases losses, and I just want to remind you that in 2003 petrochemicals had a capital of about 900 million kuna, it did. Today she's down, she's got a negative capital. So look, if there's a bigger example, a better example, to look at how a bad monetary policy like this turns into banks, then they, instead of helping to develop businesses and to save through low interest rates and petrochemicals, they contribute to its destruction. Those interest rates even contributed to the largest firm, which she believed, that no one could do anything, Agrokor, that she would fall on her knees too. Because such interest rates, from 8.9.10%, no one can, it kills everyone. So, I want to especially point out here, people don't understand much of what monetary policy is, but they understand what high interest is, which is an unreal course, which is an affair Swiss franc, which is not defended by the Central Bank, and it has had to be many other cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86363	Thank you. Since there is no respected representative of Bunjc, who has applied for an individual debate, he is losing his right to debate and will now end up speaking on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Ivan Schuker will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86364	Thank you very much. I feel the need to explain some things on behalf of the HDZ Club. So our political goal is clear entry into the Euro zone, that is the HDZ's political objective. And we expect it might even happen out there in 2023, etc. As part of the preparation for getting into all this together, I said here on behalf of the club that we would change the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on CNB and the Law on State Audit. To be clear here, no one from the HDZ from the government of the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of disabling the entry of a state audit. But we need to make it clear what that state review can and can't do. The second thing, when we manipulate something and we don't use facts, then this happens, is the fact that the governor's term lasts for 5 years, that the governor was appointed in 2013 during the SDP government and that his term of office expires 2018. So for two years, the governor was in the position of this ruling majority, that's a fact. So the next governor can come up with a change of government and he won't be able to spend three years in some other political options and that's just a fact we can't escape from. Credit rating, look at colleagues and colleagues, we have been told by those who lend us money for years you're a risky country, you're in negotiations to join the EU, we don't know when you're going in, and that's why your rating is the way it is. Even though all the macroeconomic indicators were great for us. Look at 2007 which the European country had a public depth in GDP below 30%, not a single one and Croatia had, had a deficit below 3%, but everything was, so Maastricht-Hungarian criteria were met. But our credit rating was the way it was, there was a crisis, they dropped our credit rating twice. We have entered the European Union, so if you have told me for years to pay such an interest rate because I am not in the EU, if I have now entered the EU and give me a reward, raise me a 3.4-degree credit rating. So if you feel that the policy this government is leading is not good, then start to reduce that credit rating, not what you're doing. You keep me at the bottom and you charge me for it. And that's why I said how much responsibility it takes for this pay phone of all of us, no matter what political option we belong to. We have things that go beyond that because then eventually someone else is paying for it. That's what I was saying when there was another fellow minister and another political option because these are simply facts that every minister of finance will tell you no matter what political option it belonged to. But we don't want to accept the fact here today, unfortunately, I've commended anyone who proposes any amendments to the law we should give, commending him for making it work. But I said that unfortunately everything that's being told under cover that it wants to change in the CNB doesn't offer these changes. You look at them in principle and they're technical. They're offering some archaic stuff. Do you know when a currency clause was introduced into these areas? In the 10th month of 1985, inflation dropped loans and returned them with a matchbox. I told you about borrowing money from the central state to the state budget, abolished by law in 2001 about what I'm talking about, you can see it in the Parliament then. Who's the most fucked with the CNB? Yeah. Is someone else, not because I was brave, but simply because of the minister's position some things bothered me. But did anyone else back then? It's not. And today everyone's criticizing some kind of period. So she wears her own every time. We are in a situation today to fix some more things, the risk coefficient in Croatia will be lower, interest rates will be reduced, we have a surplus of the state budget, the share of public debt in GDP will be reduced, participation in GDP and we will have better conditions. And all the institutions, whether it's the CNB, whether it's the HANF, whether it's HERA, whether it's AZTN, whether it's anyone else who has to answer to this High House, we chose them, we passed the laws. Laws empowering them to control certain processes by which we protect Croatian citizens. And that's why I'm saying it's not good for someone to serve now, and even in the Constitution, it says that we share some powers of government with the President of the Republic and that's the appointed governor. Why are we taking ourselves? We named him, we passed the law, we filed a report, we're gonna tell him whether anyone works or doesn't work well but let's say that when the governor of the CNB comes here then let's say that... Not like we're talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86365	Thank you. Ah, final, OK, good. On behalf of the promoter, the finally respected representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I received a message earlier that apparently some interested groups are not willing to have this debate, the truth that is being held here, the arguments and that the transfer of this session has been interrupted but, well, nothing new, so we will, through social networks, invite citizens to watch we will try to hear this debate through the end, I will not stay away from this fight no matter how long we attack me, as long as we drag on with this means putting the procedure in the process of this debate. Therefore, it is important to tell the citizens. What I'm trying to say is, you see the political elite so far have done everything that leads to us falling apart faster. Now they want us to rush into the euro project as soon as possible, put us in a Bob track or a fast train that drives to Greece. So much inconclusive in that. They care about earning a place in Brussels, not how the Croatian people and the economy will go about it. No one can get into the club unless they're ready for it. He won't even be accepted by the club alone, but it's become a propaganda thing where the prime minister and governor work together, the governor struggles for his second term and the prime minister to secure his position in the euro bodies. I repeat, we must turn to a different monetary policy, credit policy, lending policy. The monetary authority, which is the CNB, must serve the interests of the Croatian economy. How can it serve the interests of the Croatian economy? So it creates an ambience, to make monetary policy more favourable, and it is viewed primarily at favourable, low interest rates that will stimulate our entrepreneurs. We cannot expect entrepreneurs and employers to compete in the market, to be competitive if the interest rates of banks are high. Look how far we've come to the central bank and don't care what interest rates are because she's a key instrument to manage, she threw that lever out of her hands because she's only interested in the exchange rate. She left the formation of interest rates entirely to the banks. Is there an example of that among other things? You see, but she didn't mind for years setting one interest rate that's called an econtamination rate of the CNB, but she never granted any credit at that econtamination rate to any bank. But then the question arises, so why did she at least determine on paper that interest rate, the econtamination rate? Well, because the escontaneous rate was the basis, the basis for determining the straining interest in all proceedings before the courts. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in 2008, there's a crisis, a time before that in '94. etc., this tight interest in Croatia was as much as 30%, I repeat even 30%, then it went down to 20. Then comes the financial crisis in 2008 and the CNB raises the economic interest rate to 9%. Imagine at a time when you don't know what's going to happen when all other central banks help their banks, their countries, save companies to knock down the sharp interest rates of the CNB rises to 9%. This is added by factor three and five, and we have a tight interest of 14% in 2008 and 12%, respectively. And what happens then? So should one in particular explain why an army was created that no one mentions, and monetary authority and the CNB is one of the key producers of so many unfortunate people who don't know how they'll be waiting next month because the tight interest has made their lives worse and increased their principality beyond any measure. These are questions to be answered. Everything else is political bickering, and we victims of poor monetary and credit policies have tens of hundreds of thousands. Now they're running litigations in front of courts, and high-stricken interest rates no one can stand. And look what happened now? The leadership of the National Bank sees it wrong, although it does not admit it in the case of the Swiss franc, it sees that it was wrong when it allowed the RBA cooperatives to walk around Croatia, and then fellow Schibola had to intervene in certain cases to pass the law to save them, the CNB did not do so. Therefore, she let Croatia offer loans however it wants, to do what it wants, and then she said we are not in charge of it. They've always been like other institutions, no wonders just for her, laundered by that responsibility. Someone's gonna get the impression I'm throwing out an avalanche of criticism, so I can tell you the situation. I have no words, I refrain from making harder qualifications because the situation is really so difficult. That's why they're really going to refrain from these difficult qualifications. We see that the monetary credit system has been set up so that it exhausts from one side of the citizen, interesting them in such a way as high interest, tight interest, and on the other hand the currency clause which simply created the same thing, which is the most practically risky factor in Croatian finances and the economy. And you who follow know I've always advocated the abolition of the currency clause. The currency clause only makes sense in foreign transactions, with third parties. If transactions take place in one country it is completely unnecessary because people earn in kunas, let them pay in kunas. But there's one reason I understand banks and why I side with them, which is next, so the banks couldn't offer kunas. Why? Because the CNB did not offer them loans in kuna so that they could further grant kuna loans to companies and citizens. So they were, therefore, forced by their parent banks abroad to take foreign foreign exchange loans, foreign exchanges to sell to the CNB and only then to approve kuna loans. So you can see that the CNB forced them into something they knew was wrong. So I'm a director, I think it's the biggest Croatian bank, he described several years ago in a daily list and condemned it and spoke and sent messages and explained to the CNB that it would not end well, but they didn't even blink their eyes on it. We don't need to wonder why we're in this situation, you see that we're completely clear. However, in our beautiful Croatia, nothing will change as long as the same people are in certain institutions of government and also in this Croatian Parliament that makes laws, until they leave the scene of people who protect these interest groups working for stakeholders and lobbys and do not work for their people. That's the problem, that's the problem with these people, and the bigger the problem is when they call themselves patriots, then it's really hard for us all. So the CNB has refused all 23 years, we live in a monetary system that I can freely say is an neocolonial system, and that system is called in monetary theory a currency board or a currency board in English. It was designed by the WB at the time of its great colonial empire, and it was the first time operating on Mauritius because the currency there was tied to the English pound. Well, we're in a specific form of neocolonialism, because our monetary system is not independent, it's just public statements. You can see that the CNB can't create any extra kuna if it doesn't have a coverage in foreign exchange reserves. Or to be more specific. The CNB can only create 7 and a half kuna if it has previously secured on the left hand side, if it has 1 euro. So we have a kind of gold standard, but there's no gold cover, but we have to have to cover our own money, we have to have foreign currency. And look what's even bigger absurd. These foreign exchanges are produced by other central banks, also means they do not have cover. So our cover is something that doesn't have cover in their countries and we call it stability. Why am I telling you about this? As I said at the beginning of today's address to our public, not only ours, but also in other EU countries and beyond, these issues remained hidden and least known, but I am deeply convinced, meaning from day to day because of our presence in the Assembly and activities to be increasingly clear. The Change Croatia has the task of making citizens more enlightened, so to shed light on this one monetary credit system that simply exhausts us. And to simply shed light on this HNB Act that exists, which works, that it is not conceived in the interest of the economy, the people and the state, which is why it is necessary to move towards certain changes. Those who want to get us into the Euro zone quickly, I won't say that they don't understand, well they understand how it works, but they can't be taken away from their interests, as they couldn't, because they're just always listening to others and they've been overcome by that bad gene of our history that they've learned to listen to others. I'm surprised to say that the HDZ that had a solid, good program that the IFO Institute in Germany was no longer mentioned there, I guess they threw it in the basket. Do they mind that it's written at the time of Tomislav Karamark, so now Andrej Plenkovic has come and is simply not allowed to mention it, but there are very good things about this. And what do I want to say? I want to say that HDZ actually doesn't have any program because they rejected this IFO, they don't have their own water, and now they're doing what they say, how they bring water and what they bring in the next day, no vision, no concept, no nothing, and they run the state. To go back a little bit to the CNB and monetary, because it is the monetary government whose policies affect the lives of all of us. How many businesses in Croatia have failed because of their poor policy, due to high interest rates? How many people have become debt slaves, how many are blocked, done, so I can just say it's nothing new, that we're occupied inside by financial capital. We need new generals, they were on the battlefield, we need new generals who will know how to fight for the sovereignty and place of Croatia in this special war. It is not only run in Croatia, it is run in many other countries. Some countries are very good, excellently opposed, i.e. safeguarding their sovereignty, such as Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and some others, Romania, Croatia, and that is why we must and will work on it. The party change Croatia will work on it even though we are the youngest party, so far small, but we have great intellectual capacity, potential and we will therefore selflessly donate it to the breakthrough of Croatian citizens. One of the additional professional questions is why does the Croatian Bank not have a gram of gold in its activity, in its own? I have a list up here, I've taken out a number of countries, all the countries in our area have several tonnes, dozens of tons, Italy has over 2,000 tonnes of gold, and to those who have several hundred pounds, Bulgaria has about 40 tonnes, Albania even has as many as 100 kilograms, Croatia has not a single gram. So aside from the debate on the proposal to amend the CNB Act as a parliamentary representative elected by the citizens, they can't even talk about monetary policy. Because we are one of the few Parliaments in the world who chooses the governor to run monetary policy, but we have here a dominant practice, because these parties rule, who do not want him to be responsible for his failures. Look, gentlemen, that's why we have problems. These people created a CNB state in the state, they created sacred cows, they created a dogma and untouchable. It'll all go away if we don't change it. So do you know that it's possible to maintain price stability without everything else falling apart? Yeah, it's possible, it's possible. So you see that it's coming true, it's costing the stable and everything's going down. We're just asking when will be that last nail that someone's gonna nail, and that's what you'd do to get the euro in as soon as possible. So there's no gram of gold in the assets of the CNB. Why isn't there? Why were they sold, why was that gold and succession sold? Well then there was the leadership of the CNB, the same people were involved, making decisions. That's where Croatia lost several billion kunas. Why is it not a preventive and prevented practice for banks to approve loans related to the Swiss franc? Why they allowed RBAs to walk around Croatia, bags and approve of loans, and we have a lot of people who have died in this. Now let me go back to one actual question. Some here say that archaic thinking, let's do the most powerful things. How is it that when the Croatian state is in trouble, when it needs money, the CNB must not help it in any way and when there has been a crisis, and until now in the Italian system, the German, American, that these same central banks have helped them with their hat and hand not directly because it is also forbidden to lend directly to the state but have worked on a small door, as our people around the car would say. They intervened in proportions that are historical, which are epic. Such state interventions could only be seen in socialism but not in such proportions when it comes to money. And now we're being taught lessons by people who don't mention it at all. Why did the European Central Bank order because they had to listen to the central banks that took over the euro area that they had to knock down interest rates almost 0, close to zero and one time they were zero. Why? In some countries we have negative interest rates in central banks, so because the system there is arranged, there is no central bank in the sky and we are on the ground. So we created her, we invented her, we gave her a mandate to help, not to get back, not to destroy her, and she didn't do it. In fact, we were even more exhausted by high interest rates than I explained when I was talking about tight interest and all that. Look yesterday I read an ad in a daily newspaper, a bank that is very well known to us in conversion, offers only today, the 15th is today that you can take a loan with 50% discount. And I'm gonna go see what the interest rate is, I thought here's finally 1%. But they say it was 8%, now you can get 4%. It's a famous trade trick, so when we come to the sale, we see what it is. During that time you can get credit in Slovenia, with 0.5% of some, not more than 1%. And be competitive entrepreneurs in one system that's expensive. The financing costs are part of the cost of production, i.e. the final product. If they are high, the cost of funding and the product of our entrepreneurs, our producers will be more expensive. And then how can we practically act in this regard? I would like to report through this debate because you rarely see we are discussing these issues that there are no countries and its economies that can achieve the desired goals if we have handed over the financial system to others, if we have entrusted our battery to others, in particular to foreigners 92%, if we have also handed over the pension funds established by foreign banks to them to manage our pensions in the second pillar. We've lost all control of the financial flows. The story of the globalisation you've been listening to so far and telling gentlemen is over. If you don't get it, why don't you take a look and listen to what's going on in America? What President Trump is doing that opened the story and introduced, simply to the planet in a new international order, he's the president who's fighting for his country but he's about to order it like this. I said America first so say you Croats, Croats first, Croatia first, but there is no one to say in this government. Why? 'Cause it's the sushi government, watch out. And what are the modern circumstances, what is the consolidation of international relations? Everyone adapts. You see, Germany, a decision has been made, no one can cooperate with Russia, the embargo, Germany normally works on building a northern cannon, and that's what's going on. France is also fulfilling its interests, Austria, Slovenia is coming, President Putin and there and asking us to be more Catholics than the Pope. Our partners should be the United States, we are bound by contracts, especially, but our partner should be both Russia and China, India and all countries with which we can achieve cooperation, open, honest, and I think it is easy to talk to these people and peoples, especially their representatives. And with President Trump and Putin and others, if you clearly state your position on your country, your own interests as President Orban does, as President Kaczynski does, actually this second one in Poland, and that's the story. Here, simply Croatia needs new people, a new policy, a new government that will communicate to other countries and participants means in international relations which is our interest, which we defend, which we want and which means we can do in a strategic partnership with them. We can't function anymore in a way that goes all our way, that story is over. I'm asked by citizens when changes will come in Croatia, how will we change Croatia? Then an older grandmother of bright eyes tells me, she looks at me on the side she says when you decide she'll change. In fact, I've thought about it for a long time, when you citizens decide to change Croatia, then we'll change it. It's a deep truth, not me with your speech or some, you when you decide. The only thing I don't understand about you is that you have such endurance and that you can swallow and endure all of this for years. This is really not like the Croatian people who need to throw the yoke off their necks and shackles from their hands when we talk about finance, about debt slavery, about the perpetrators and everything else. To return to CNB practice, it has systematically cleaned small banks from the market over the past 15, 20 years. Small banks from Slavonia have disappeared, especially from central Croatia, and you can see how this is being cleaned up in Dalmatia and how certain banks from which countries take over the area of interest. So with our accumulation, our savings, they will realize their interests. I don't mind that foreign banks exist, that we compete with others, but if there are 30, 40 or 50% of them, then 92% of them don't do that. Look how many Slovenians they have, look how many Italians, so look at the Germans we all call on, there's no such percentage. What did Hungary do? She also had 90% now is about 50%, she buys back her banks because they realize that they can't give their circulation financially to someone else and expect him to develop them. He doesn't have it, he'll always develop himself before. Therefore, it is time for sobering, from this place I call on behalf of the party to change Croatia to gather and to define the most important interests, five to ten key goals around which we can forget everything else and simply lead this tormented country one way that will be ours, where we will take care of our citizens, our producers, our agriculture, our industry, which simply disappears more and more because if we continue this way we will have a problem to find some industry to show children from school what some industry looks like. Small banks were destroyed, and the CNB set double standards for them. One measure for large banks, the other one for mills. I remember the beginning there sometime after the war, Croatia was said to have had 60 banks and then the advocates of liberalism started, neoliberalism throughout Croatia to say that it was too many banks for such a small country. The largest number of citizens and people who have decided on this, they thought really this is a small country of 60 banks is too much. We have 20 banks today. But look at Austria, it has 8.5 million inhabitants, you know how many banks it has? Over 800. Please, it's perfectly clear here, they have a small municipal utility bank, like this, like that, a playful system of financials. It's all under the paw of a few of the biggest banks. There is nothing there and there can be no democracy, there can be no Parliament, there can be no Parliament, there is nothing the Government can do about it, it can only express wishes until it approves the one who owns the financial flows and our accumulates. Furthermore, what is our external and internal debt, public debt? As you can see, the outside is 40 billion euros. Do you know whose only share of the debt was reduced in the foreign debt? Foreign banks because while the credit expansion was up to 2008, they imported, when the crisis went down, they were returning loans to the outside and reducing foreign debt. The country's debt, citizens and businesses grew the most, thus the state did not reduce, it remained small in that level. And public debt, so that data is not accurate at all. I was here in the Parliament saying that there is a need to add around 12 billion kunas of utility companies that are connected to local self-governments and administrations and they are not... in public debt, and they must be, therefore we have incorrect data and I don't know why Eurostat and the European Commission don't react to that. Well, we're sick of false indicators, you know. I understand that in this Assembly, the media that depends on a particular media that depends on whether it advertises this or that or whether it's at the mercy of this government or not, but you don't live on it, gentlemen. Sometimes the truth comes out, you don't really need to tell the truth, so people live like that, worse lives, they don't see your improvements. So you can see that further eviction continues from Croatia. We have one Croatia outside Croatia. I'm not glad they're there, but for Croatia it's potentially big, it's the biggest capital. And I am convinced and I will fight for that diaspora will never come. If we can get them back 30 so I don't say 50%, we have a terrible potential because these people have capital, they have knowledge, they can speak languages, they've learned a new culture of work. But it will only come here if the political situation changes, if new people come here too, where they will recognize that they can bring their own capital and that this will be the same country for all, that the law here will be the same for all, not that we have people who can never have a slow life. So I conclude with the the thesis that the Croatian National Bank must serve the economy and citizens rather than certain stakeholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86367	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Allow me to draw particular attention to the fact that the session will continue on Tuesday and unfortunately only to you five MPs, as long as there are others, so on Tuesday, 19 June at 9.30 p.m. with the point of the draft law on the performance of student affairs, first reading, P.Z. No. 348. ... Tuesday, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why I emphasized it in particular. Have a nice weekend. The session was interrupted at 14.52 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-15-0.u86368	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian National Bank, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205. The promoter is Agent Ivan Lovrinović, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian National Bank which does not accept the Government or parliamentary working bodies, please vote. I find that the law was not passed because it did not receive the required number of votes, 5 were for, 2 abstentions and 84 MPs were against it.
