ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91484	Now we will go to the next point, which is - Final proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity, second reading, P.Z. Number 335. The proposal is based on Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Department of Defense Zdravko Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91485	... MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Individuals are exposed to dangers, potential suffering, which leaves consequences for the family and the community and imposes the need to provide support in solving the problems that have arisen. So in the last 10 years, more than 200 humanitarian actions have been carried out at the Ministry of Defence's level to collect financial assistance to employees and in situations where certain funds are not sufficient to settle the necessary costs and the adoption of this law would stop the need to organise such actions and to adopt this law and to establish a trust fund will be collected for a specific purpose, and more effectively grant assistance to employees according to uniform and pre-defined criteria. This law establishes the foundation of military solidarity and regulates its bodies, assets, methods and sources of financing, the founder of the foundation is the Republic of Croatia. Fundamental rights and obligations have the Republic of Croatia, in fact, the Ministry of Defence. The proposal is to establish the foundation to promote humanitarian action and support the employees of the defence resolution in all forms of suffering and endangering their social status, to provide financial assistance to members of the family of the deceased, to provide material assistance to the unemployed parents who were the sole guardian, to provide financial assistance for the treatment of severely ill persons and members of their immediate family. Storage bodies are boards of directors and trustees. The Foundation shall be managed by the Management Board of 5 members employed by the Ministry of Defence. The term of office of members of the Management Board shall be 2 years with the right to re-election and shall be without compensation. The fund is financed from income from assets, gifts, this law of regulated income and other revenue from the trusts can generate revenue from the profits of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The revenue from voluntary staff contributions shall be cash assets which, on the basis of their written voluntary statements, are continuously deducted from the amount of the NETO monthly salary. The Croatian Parliament also adopted this proposal on 25 May 2018, and the observations of the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament which were nomotechnical in nature were adopted and incorporated into this Final Proposal of the Law. We therefore propose that you support the Final Proposal of the Law on the Foundation of War Solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91486	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law before us that we really shouldn't talk much about, but we could all support it without any delay, but still allow a few more notes to maybe look at all the important dimensions of this Law. The Law says that it is actually being introduced because of the principle of subsidiarity, since the OS Law already provides for what is coming to them as one aid, but here this aid would be extended for humanitarian reasons and to financial assistance to members of the families of the deceased, material assistance to unemployed parents, help to treat severely ill persons, etc. This one humanitarian dimension is undeniable. However, I think that another dimension should be taken into account here, which is the preservation of the tradition, the dignity of the HV and the identification with the belonging of that one institution, because simply the stability of the state depends, among other things, on the extent to which we respect the institutions and to what extent these institutions care about their employees or their members. For this reason, it might be good to propose to the Government that this Law is actually adopted in another form for all public authorities, and that others on this basis can form such foundations, given that they have a meaning, given this one humanitarian dimension and that the Law can never foresee for a variety of reasons that all assistance should be provided to members of certain institutions and services, and the principle of humanity and solidarity is increasingly broader and more comprehensive than any law can foresee. Therefore, I think it would be good for such a law to be passed, to propose it to the Government, so we don't have the Police Service Foundation on the agenda, so I don't know, doctors or any other profession. That's one thing. Second, clean two perhaps suggestions or remarks. It's a good thing what's supposed to happen here is that both the Board and the Directors of the Foundation work actually pro bono, means on a voluntary basis, but it can happen especially at the time of the Foundation's establishment, at a time when these funds won't be large, that one part of the costs will be related to the financial operations that each of these funds must have. So it might have been good to predict here that in this case the parent institution, in this case the MORH can carry out these financial tasks for the purposes of the Foundation. I don't know if it can be done without these additions to the law, but not to get into a situation where someone who will strictly watch who runs the material business is, according to which it is said that the principle of solidarity of the Ministry and the CV institution is that which is borne by part of those costs. Also, another minor inconsistency in some way that changes nothing to things, which is that in art. 20th regulation that reports on the financial operations of the Foundation shall be delivered to the Management Board every month, or every 15th of the month, and in Article 20. The 7th is said that these board meetings should be held at least once a month, which is not an obstacle, but it would be cleaner if it were in some way even. That's it. The HDZ Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91488	Thank you very much. Next, we're going to individual debates and will speak to the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91489	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna say anything special, maybe a little more detail than I said on the board. This law is so good, it takes so much, it's just so, it's so justifiable, it's as you want, that just, here people don't even have us in the assembly, and I think people have missed something by reading that Law or better by not reading it, when you see it, it's enough for you to say I'm going to vote for it. However, some things have gone under the radar and I will be free to remind and advocate, and I have also put four amendments to this Law. So I've already said he's very needed. Like the Law on the Police Solidarity Foundation, which was passed in 2005. In order not to be misunderstood and not to be resented, almost all articles of the Police Solidarity Foundation are embedded, better written in this law. When you compare these two laws on trusts, police and military, their sentences and marks are true, I mean nothing bad, we don't even need to reveal hot water, it's all clear. We don't have to make anything up. When you look at the argument, we keep talking about the Armed Forces Act, the Armed Forces Act, and then there's a little sentence down there, not a sentence, but two words, "Defense Resor." What was I going to say? Therefore, justification has been confirmed for the members of the OS that this law is necessary because their daily tasks are at risk, the possibility of suffering, the endangerment of their social status and, with a legal obligation, often due to increased costs and the lack of funds, and there has been a promotion of the right of this humanitarian action, I will repeat five more times if necessary, humanitarian action and support for the members of the OS and members of their families. So two hands for it. However, the work of the foundation for not only military members of the OSCE has also been implemented through this law, but also for officials and furniture officers in the Ministry of Defence. If that were to go away, it would be discriminatory against all the other 230 officials and second-in-commands of other resolute state services and public administrations. In fact, the foundation generates sources of funding, so besides that state deposit of 100,000 from donations, donations, interest income, rents, rents, movables and up to revenue from certain companies. And here you can raise significant funds and it's good to soup significant funds, that's good. But it puts all others in an unequal or discriminatory position and I said more of those ccas over 230 employees and employees in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think that's supposed to happen. And I believe, I deeply believe that neither the officers nor the deputies at the Department of Defense would want that to happen and that they would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who would be the ones who did it. I can only say, I've already said that on the previous board, I know that they recently abolished that 20% supplement, that they were bitter, and that's why I asked you on the board why you're not going with the activation of Article 29(2), the Minister's decision can determine a certain salary supplement, so I've also learned that such a proposal is already on the table. I welcome that, and I think we need to find a solution here for employees, or for deputies and officials at the Ministry of Defence, and not through this way, because this is for members of the OSCE of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I wanted to point out in particular, I said that I handed over four amendments to Articles 3, 5, 11 and 23, so I ask you to consider these amendments and to the best extent possible, because they really believe me, in the best faith and submitted. So there's nothing against the officers and the deputies at the Department of Defense but the problem is that we're not going to say any conflict, I'm not going to say impatience but injustice to the others. I'd like to make sure that there's a foundation to be made for what Professor O'Reilly said. Tudjman for all other employees and tenants or we'll go to the resorts, we've got tax, social services, we've got school, we've got health care, we can do it for everyone, but not here. On the board, you told me or I figured you out like that, that you were thinking about yes or no, but you made up your mind because police officers also have that option. I don't think it's about ignorance, I don't think it's about evil, I don't think it might be one indiscretion, the officers and the substitutors in the police or the M.O.P., whatever you want, they don't have, they're not built into that foundation. The second thing is that we have the term "OSS" here, and there's a police officer there, but a police officer isn't the official and the deputy we're talking about, and this is the kind of proposal you wouldn't be referring to for a while. I'll be free to say one more thing, I support, I really support that income is formed and that as much funds as possible are created in this trust fund and so is this where you installed that one part of the income goes and out of the profits of the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. So even if HEP, I don't know who we're going to list now, that certain funds are included in the military security foundation's income, or as I said to the military security foundation, I'm sorry, but please remind Minister Bozinovic, here I remind him, we remind the police officers, let them, too, put it in their trust fund because it would not be correct for it to be in this military security foundation alone, but to be incorporated into the police security foundation. Here's all in the best interest, I wanted to warn you in good faith, and I repeat, we're all probably by the title saying let's go right ahead and vote, but something under the radar goes through, and it shouldn't go through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91490	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91491	Thank you. My colleague Ronko, the question of these officers and their tenants and their place in this foundation, I think they'll only be potent because I don't know if he was already on board, but I don't know if he was in the Assembly this law on the expansion of these civilian persons on participation in operations. I beg your pardon? [[Intruder Reiner: He'll be here next week.]] But he was on the board no, according to that. This foundation or such foundations and their defacto should be included so that I don't think it can be disputed that both these officers and the tenants have seats here, especially since we have this experience from the Homeland War when it was difficult to isolate, someone was a dactylograph somewhere, and was under the same conditions in certain situations, not everywhere, so there was a question of participation in the Homeland War, etc. It's one parallel that has to take us Thank you. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91492	The answer of the esteemed representative, Ronk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91493	We're not at war, that's all I have to say. We're not at war, so we can clear it up. But once again, I don't mind, but let's make a general decision that we have a tax security foundation then a social security foundation and through all the ministries, through all the public administration individually. Or we'll say let's make one foundation for all the officers and the tenants, and we can't pull out and pull out the officers and the furniture at the Department of Defense, we can't and can't do it for others, because of the discriminatory relationship, because of the unequal relationship, we can't do it. That's my attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91494	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91495	Final proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity, second reading, P.Z. No. 335. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Agent Zdravko Ronko. I would now ask the Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, Zdravko Jakob to explain the government's views, we have four amendments, so let's go with the first one, please show.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91496	Final proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity, second reading, P.Z. No. 335. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by Agent Zdravko Ronko. I would now ask the Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, Zdravko Jakob to explain the government's views, we have four amendments, so let's go with the first one, please show.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91497	It's obvious, fellow Ronko, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91498	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not going to appeal to a conscience exam, but what you've suggested and what you're not giving up is not good, neither is that stubbornness you're staying with. No one disputes the justification of the solidarity trust, especially not military, but not in this way. Because with such injustice and discrimination, you also cause dissension, and you also cause antagonisms between officials and tenants, but also among the ministries. And the problem is that only officers and deputies from the Department of Defense are involved in the foundation, and the other 232,000 employees and tenants are nowhere to be found. And as far as the foundation is concerned, it's a trust fund that could be extremely rich because I can even say a word richer than the police trust because the sources of funding are besides donations, income from assets, rights, rents, rents, etc. the included and initial capital from the state budget, and what is particularly annoying, that is that the income from the profits of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia is included. I'll agree, I'll take it upon myself and I'll get my ass kicked, but I'll agree that, and that's true, the salaries of the Department of Defense employees, that's to say, officials and tenants that they're miserable and humiliating, but let's be a man, and somehow we'll sort it out properly. It's just a sentence. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] We shall adequately resolve Article 113(2). The defense law because this Parliament brought it in this spring, and let's not calm down the tenants and officials with some kind of tripper combinations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91499	Because you're asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91500	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91501	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number two of the same MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91502	Amendment number two is not accepted. The main headquarters of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is part of the Ministry of Defence and there is no need to state that a specific proposal is needed for the appointment of members of the Management Board, which is part of the Ministry of Defence and appointed by the defence minister. This problem and way of structure has been regulated by other laws and implementing regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91503	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91504	If there was no ear for this first amendment, there is no need for either second, third, or fourth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91505	You're giving up the amendment? Okay, thank you. Then we go to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 125 votes, we have passed the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91506	I suggest we unite the next two points, if that's okay with you. You don't mind? So we will unite, these are points - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the coalition forces INHERENT RESOLVE - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation SEA GUARDIAN in the Mediterranean. For both, the text is the same, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 54 of the Law on Defence and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? The Honorable Secretary of State at the Department of Defense, Zdravko Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91507	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. In this decision, when we talk about INHERENT RESOLVE, the area of participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation INHERENT RESOLVE extends from Kuwait to Iraq. The reason is to move the operation's command to which the Croatian officer is working from Kuwait to Iraq. The operation under the command of the American General is in 2017. 2018 was located in Kuwait in camp... During 2018 the command office moved from Kuwait to Iraq, camp... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in Baghdad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia is currently participating with one of the headquarters officers in Kuwait in the operation command and is currently in force of the decision of the Croatian Parliament of 30 June 2017 on participation in the operation of the coalition forces INHERENT RESOLVE, which is in charge of the operation in Kuwait in 2017 and '18. may be directed to up to 3 members with the possibility of rotation. The Republic of Croatia actively contributes to the coalition's forces through its participation in the operation. The Union Free Camp Office is located in the green zone of Baghdad in the area of the highest security in that city or in that country, therefore it is proposed that, in accordance with the Law on Defence of the Croatian Parliament, a decision be made to refer to up to 3 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the direction of the US Operation in Kuwait and Iraq in 2018 and 2019, with the possibility of rotation. The government of the Republic of Croatia will submit a report to the Croatian Parliament following the completion of the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the coalition forces, and the funds are secured in the 524 600 kuna division of the Ministry of Defence. We therefore propose that this proposal be adopted. As for the SEA GUARDIAN Peace Support Operation in the Mediterranean, NATO transformed the previous maritime anti-terrorism operation in November 2016... in the Mediterranean for a new maritime security operation called SEA GUARDIAN. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Operation SEA GUARDIAN contributes to maritime situational information, develops regional maritime security, supports the fight against terrorism, ensures freedom of implementation, implements maritime interception tasks, contributes to the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, protects key infrastructure, and helps develop the capabilities of partner country warships in the Mediterranean. In addition, the SEA Guardian operation provides operational assistance to the operation... implemented by the EU in order to prevent human trafficking in the Mediterranean, and to build the capacity of Libyan security forces to prevent illegal activities at sea and to act independently in the exercise of tasks assigned to legal powers. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Navy would be engaged for up to 30 days during September 2018 in the area outside the Adriatic Sea, carrying out non-combating tasks aimed at contributing to the achieved and overall maritime situation from all available sources in real time with the identification of navigation, of interest and the visibility of NATO forces at sea with the aim of deterring possible threats and support to NATO strategic commuting, with direct protection of national interests at sea, participation of armed forces in the NATO operation, would show a visible contribution from the Republic of Croatia in federal efforts, more secure common safety at sea within national capabilities and available resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore proposed, in accordance with the Law on Defence, that the Croatian Parliament make a decision, in which it is operated, in support of peace... in the Mediterranean, it lists between 2018 and 50 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia with a ship of the Croatian Navy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By 31 March 2019, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will report to the Croatian Parliament on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation and the funds are secured in the Ministry of Defence, amounting to 2.13 million kuna, and is therefore proposed to support this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91508	Thank you very much, we have a replica of the respected representative Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91509	The Honorable Chairman, so here, would ask the secretary of state, one very serious question. In fact, in this military action in which a Croatian soldier is sent to Iraq, this action is actually being carried out in both Iraq and Syria. America doesn't have any consent... States to act on the territory of its country and I wonder if it is normal for you to have Croatia participating in military operations that take place as part of actions without any international legitimacy, where simply one country means the United States literally occupys another country, because their forces and actions are stationed there, although the Syrian government has openly said that they do not want US presence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91510	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have two decisions before us that the Croatian Parliament has made in the past, given international defence cooperation and security, Croatia participates in a number of areas from India, up to the Western Sahara in retirement missions, as well as in security missions, and so this decision concerning the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation... I think it clearly shows how strong the allies in their decisions are and make decisions that would be more strongly involved in the global fight against terrorism including becoming a member of the global coalition against ISIL, although they will not participate in combat operations, it is necessary to engage more actively in the fight against terrorism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia has supported the inclusion of alliances in the global coalition against ISIL, so the Republic of Croatia is one of the members of the global coalition in the fight against ISIL, which joined the coalition in September 2014. depending on the need for a position. 3 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. Croatian armies will be involved and a possible rotation for them. Everything else the secretary of state said, HDZ clearly supports such an effort that Croatian officers, participating in operations and commands of NATO forces in the fight against terrorism, show their willingness, their training and the strength of our armed forces, who surely throughout the world demand observation as well as our military industry, which is also presented, and also in joint efforts, the preservation of the stability of the fight against terrorism, develops the military industry as well as presents the world as well as economic empowers the Republic of Croatia. The second decision operation to be taken by the Croatian Parliament is a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation... In the Mediterranean. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, too, we have the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Navy in peace support operations, the teaching process of development would continue, the process of developing the capabilities of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia would continue to work together with the forces of the NATO member states. I think that in the nearer area and area of the Adriatic Sea, which would significantly be deployed, as this significantly and directly affects the Croatian economy, social development throughout the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia through the activities of the Croatian Navy, maintain an uninterrupted relationship with the regional navy and the Allied.../The speaker is not understood. Commands, by exchanging information on the security situation at sea for action in the protection of common interests. ... The compatibility for the engagement of the Navy forces in NATO operations is part of the goals of developing HRM capabilities, and thus through this operation will show, but to further train with NATO forces to be joined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given that it is an Allied operation of the protection of common interests, and the possibility of HV engagement, i.e. The OS in the direct protection of national interests in the area in front of state territory is proposed to adopt such a decision on the reference of the ship HRM and up to 50 members in the operation... The HDZ supports these operations as well as decision-making. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91512	Thank you very much. The following GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club should have spoken to a respected representative, Vesna Pusic. She's gone, she's losing her right to speak, so the next "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club is on behalf of the respected representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91513	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where the Republic of Croatia participates in U.S. military missions in the Middle East, and we all know that even though we are a little present in the Parliament, only five MPs, although we all know that, in fact, by its military action, America has only created chaos and, in fact, there is no such thing as no use, but we have maximum damage. One of the problems of this military action, where a Croatian soldier is directed, is that it is happening on the territory of Syria, and we know that there is no agreement of the Syrian government for the presence of NATO soldiers in their country. The NATO Pact aims to colonise Syria. NATO's goal is to Balkanise Syria, which means as much as possible, different parts with the goal of weakening to go hand in hand with an ally, which is Israel. Instead of HV and NATO and America doing everything to help the Palestinians, to free the Palestinian people from the yoke and occupation that lasts for more than 70 years, they are helping the Kurds in Syria, helping the Iraqi government, although it is clear that the war against ISIL has actually ended in Iraq, and their prime minister said so, and in Syria the war would have long ended long ago that America had not involved its fingers. I find this military operation hypocritical, and I'm taking another step from this pay phone against the war, against US military operations in the Middle East on the one hand. And on the other hand, for the policy of lasting peace and neutrality of our country. The living wall is against war, war in Iraq, war in Syria, war in Libya, war in Afghanistan and war in every other country. But unfortunately, the US government and their vases, including the Republic of Croatia, are supporting war, supporting US military action, and eventually the Republic of Croatia has agreed to a military operation in Libya. A military operation that actually created chaos there. These stories about how the Republic of Croatia will help with a warship in the Mediterranean, that it will thus establish some kind of peace there and security and stability is untrue. Italian Interior Minister Salvini, he has done more to stop the migrant crisis and all this chaos than all NATO ships have done so far. With a very simple decision. He simply said, we will no longer allow illegal migration, we will no longer transport these migrants to Italy and we will not allow the transport of migrants to Italy. And that moment is actually a broken network of human smugglers, a broken system of actually human trafficking, and that one, I would dare say, one state in the legal sense of anarchy. NATO ships haven't been able to stop hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants for years. So what was their role in the Mediterranean? What were they doing there? Which allows us to point out that the role of these NATO ships in the Mediterranean, that they have the role of ficus there, in fact, that they are doing nothing and that I repeat, the Italian government has said, decided to put an end to the entire circus, and I therefore believe that the participation of the Republic of Croatia in this military mission in the Mediterranean is another one, unlike the one in Iraq and Syria, I think it's wrong, because we're going to send 50 soldiers to the high seas, we're going to have to pay fuel for these rides over the Mediterranean, and we're actually going to have a company of expenditures, and with no effect, because it's not a mission, it's not a military mission. The Mediterranean thing is actually, I don't even know what to call it. It's a boat ride across the Mediterranean, I don't know. I don't know what the point of it is, what benefit Croatian citizens have from it or any other citizen of any other country. In accordance with all of this, and in accordance with the general definition of our political party of the Living Wall to oppose NATO and American imperialism, a policy that creates refugees and politics that opens up migrant routes, such as in Libya, both done and done, we therefore oppose the participation of our country in all NATO military missions and ask that our soldiers return to our homeland, to protect it, not to protect Iraq, Syria or anyone else or Libya because Croatia cannot help them. And it's not the role of the US and NATO Pact, or the NATO Alliance to help, either the Libyans, or the Syrians, or the Iraqis. The goal of the basic NATO pact is to expand the geo-political influence of America, aimed at establishing American domination over as many countries as possible. In certain countries, this was done with the establishment of puppet governments, i.e. regimes, managed from outside, from America, and in other countries, where America could not establish these servant vassal scales, i.e. where the compressors could not lead to power, that America, by carrying out military actions, actually carried out a formal occupation of these countries. I must warn you of a strong thought, that is, an important thought, at a time of socialism, the prevailing economic opinion in these areas was Marxist, that was economic, that was, let's say, an economic opinion school, which was dominant in these areas. However, by leaving socialism, another school of economic opinion, she neoliberally came to power. And all of a sudden all those who were Marxists yesterday, who swore to self-government socialism, who spoke of the movement of the unclassified, who were opponents of the bloc's commitment, suddenly turned into the neoliberal to the American remote control. And now what happened after that? It happened that there was an economic break in our country, that hundreds of thousands of citizens came out of Croatia, but of course, that elite continues to push that policy. And the question arises why? And I'll explain it now. This is a very important issue, or topic. There are two reasons why people change their minds, one of the reasons is the influence of new knowledge, so hypothetically, you have an opinion, say against war, against, say, invasion of Libya, but you get some new information, which maybe you consider important and that information changes your perception, and now you're, let's say, hypothetically speaking for the Libya bombings. But there's another way to change your mind, which is when a person is against bombing Libya, so someone tells him, you're going to stay in your position or you're going to be promoted or you're going to get a reward or we're going to buy you out in another way, so you're going to be about bombing Libya. In the same way, this change in economic thought, or opinion, occurred in Croatia. It's just that people have been bribed, and everyone has started to advocate this failed system, which has proven to lead us to ruin and convince us that this system is going to get us on the right track that we're going to be okay. These minorities in the ruling structures, i.e. the ruling structures represent minorities in themselves, but in the ruling structures there are two groups of people, one is aware that they are implementing a policy against the domicile population and in the service of foreign countries, such as America and which are actually exploiting our country, so part of the people are aware of that and part of it is not aware. So part of it participates in power from simply out of ignorance, thinking that by supporting, this and this power to do good to its people, however, we know that our people are not well, and that minority who consciously works to the harm of its own country for the interests of foreigners, they are called the Compradori, that's the expression that Carl Marks designed. And we in Croatia, in fact, have in power this compressor elite, which satiates our country, destroys our country, which instead of returning our people who have moved out of Croatia, sends our citizens to some foreign missions, etc. A completely one missed policy, a completely missed strategy, I don't see where that leads to any good in the future. I, from this policy that you gentlemen are conducting from the Ministry, see only the continuation of the state of affairs. And what does it mean, in practice, to continue the congenitality, so that means to continue, what does America do, and what does America ladies and gentlemen do? America invents, say, a false accusation, says, hey Iraq has weapons of mass destruction, then bombes that country, brings terrorists to power, and then says, and listen, because of these terrorists, we have to stay here now, we can't go. Well, it's like America cares about whether there are terrorists in Iraq or not, so that's not why America's in Iraq, America's interested in oil. Where there is no oil, there is no interest in America, there is no American soldier in Somalia, there is no interest in America, America is only interested in the naked interest, and Croatia is putting itself into service of American interest, in fact participating in a foreign war, in a foreign account, but it pays itself. In other words, the cost of these military operations and in Iraq, that is, in Syria and the cost of this military action in the Mediterranean, will ultimately be paid by domestic taxpayers, and these actions themselves will not be in favour or interest of the citizens of our country. I know there's no room for common sense in this House, I know there's no room for truth, I know that simple decisions are made in a way that directives come from outside, so let's just say, instead of ruling the people, by choosing their representatives, or by choosing the authorities from the bottom to the top. We have a reverse situation. We have a pyramid of power, on which not even the people sitting in the Ban Courts across from the Parliament are, but there are some foreign figures, which then dictate to us what to do. And this isn't one action of this guy that we're working on, under another's directive, the same story is with that LNG terminal on Krk, which we have no use for, but we're going to spend enormous money, so we can import more expensive American LNG gas, embedded, and what we need, we don't need. We also don't need our ships in the Mediterranean, we don't need our soldiers in Baghdad, what we need is peace, and we need all the resources we have available to focus on our country's development. Not buying military planes for 3 billion of which no one benefits, 30-year-old shorts, or buying hoodies from Germany, etc. etc. I mean, I know this won't get to the ears of anyone sitting here except my fellow living wallmates who know it, even though they're not here right now, but they're also without me telling this story, they're going to vote against this plan of yours. However, there are many citizens of our country, who do not know what I'm saying, who are uninformed, who still believe in fairy tales, who still believe in lies served to them through mass media, who really believe that America is spreading democracy around the world, freedom and similar paroles, or fairy tales. So here, on this occasion, I refer directly to you, as citizens and I call you as citizens to support the Living Wall of Elections, because we are the only option that is actually modern, which is not managed from outside and which is not in the dictatorship or at the ends of the foreign forces, the imperialist forces, who want to establish rule over the whole world, from one center of power, or Washington. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91514	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91515	I thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed secretary and the other six MPs who are here, the SDP Representatives' Club will support these decisions. As for these in the Mediterranean, therefore, we are satisfied with the explanations that say that the boat, i.e.,... The Croatian Navy, which will be at the entrance to the Adriatic and will not, therefore, be in touch, will most likely not be in contact with migrants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also as far as this first decision on the transfer of command was one of our officers from Kuwait, Iraq, is about action and that has already begun, it seems to us during our government. In this regard, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91516	Thank you very much. Especially at the core. Now we move on to... Here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Give up the individual debate. We will conclude the debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue to work on Tuesday, July 10th at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 344. Have a nice weekend. Session interrupted at 12.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-06-0.u91517	Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the coalition forces INHERENT RESOLVA. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I also stress here that Article 7(6) The Republic of Croatia's constitution states that the majority of all MPs' votes are needed to make a decision, namely 76 votes. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 110 for, 11 abstentions and 3 votes against, have made a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of the coalition force INHERENT RESOLVE.
