ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83770	Your Honor, Mr. President, thank you. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of counsel and counsel. After the end of the defensive Homeland War, the Republic of Croatia was faced with a problem of exceptional economic and security importance, which is the pollution of its territory by mine-explosive and unexploded deadly means. The security threat of the population as well as the inability to use mined space either for economic exploitation or for everyday life have a strong impact on the development of not only those areas that have been affected by war activities but also on the development of society as a whole. The consequences that this type of threat creates are almost equally both security and economic, environmental and social, the execution of mine contamination for the population of the Republic of Croatia, and the fact that 595 people have died since the official end of the Homeland War to date in mine incidents, unfortunately 203 fatal. The report we submitted last 2017 is the first report or the first year in which there were no mine victims, or persons performing demining, pyrotechnics, auxiliary workers and others, or the civilian population. The Republic of Croatia has also joined the international fight against anti-personnel mines by ratification of the Convention prohibiting the use of the production of imports and exports and the storage of anti-personnel mines, known as the Otova Convention. The government recognised from the beginning that the solution to the mine problem was crucial and therefore provided stable sources of funding in the state budget, then used loans from the World Bank, budgets and companies owned by the Republic of Croatia and later pre-accession and structural and cohesion funds of the EU, and also through a transparent relationship with domestic and foreign donors, there were also certain grants. In all, our country's demining operations have been funded from all sources since '98. Almost 5.4 billion kuna spent until 2017. For the last 2017 on which we submit the report, the government has established six circular targets through the mine action plan. The first objective was to carry out demining operations and general survey on a surface of 58.3 km square. The emphasis on doing these tasks was placed on the completion of demining operations in Brod-Posavina County in order to address the mine problem and the county as a whole, then to continue the systematic and full demining of agricultural areas and continue the demining of economic forests in Požega-Slavon County. The second objective defined by the government's plan for last year was to maintain a system of marking the entire mine suspected area and an area polluted exclusively by unexploded means of killing. The third objective was to provide information and education to the population on the dangers of mines and their parts, and to promote the Croatian system, mine action in the international community, in order to create conditions, to continue the implementation of mine action operations after the end of the obligations arising from the Convention. The fifth objective was to provide technical projects to be financed by EU funding, from the financial perspective of 2014-2020, and finally the sixth objective would be to create a requirement for an extension of the deadline for the completion of the commitment contained in Article. 5. Otovks Conventions, i.e. the destruction of anti-walking mines in mined areas. The situation of mine suspected space, on 1.1.2017, was 446.6 km square and extended in 9 counties and within 65 cities and municipalities. The mine suspected area was marked with 14088 markings indicating mine danger and possible mine-explosive and explosive killings. As for the achievement of those objectives, last year, the implementation of all demining operations of general and technical appearance, hence the planned reduction of mine suspected areas by 58.3 km square, and the achieved reduction by 36.5 km square. One of the reasons for this is the smaller means, for example, because of the subsequent conclusion of the agreement between the Croatian Forests and CROMAC, then the change in the methodology of the presentation of the plan's implementation data, i.e., the demonstration of the reduction of mine suspected space, in a way that, by changing the law and sublegal acts, only lists that reduction when the exclusion certificate has been issued for those areas dedicated to the use of end-users, and the previous, previous methodology, data on demining areas, on which demining operations have been carried out, but no exclusion procedure has yet been implemented. The demining operations in 2017 were carried out by 40 authorised legal persons, who carried out demining operations at a total of 38.5 km square. During these operations, 1289 pieces of mine explosives were found and destroyed, so, anti-walking and anti-aircraft mines and 519 with unexploded means of killing. During the performance of quality control operations, irregularities were identified during demining in 42 cases and, accordingly, repeated demining operations were imposed on the surface of 84905 square metres. Also, when performing quality control operations in 29 cases, there has been an irregularity and a repeated demining business has been imposed on a total of 41559 m2 So, I will repeat, failure to complete demining operations as envisaged by the plan, conditions for the late start of demining operations by means of the state budget, from the position of compensation for the general useful functions of the forest, as well as the subsequent completion of the demining, restoration and protection of forests and forest land in protected areas, nature 2000. As we have already reported, part of the reduction in mine suspected space is being carried out and the technical reconnaissance operations were planned in 5 counties, on polygons of 13.5 km2. In 2017, the work of the technical reconnaissance was mine suspectedly reduced by 9.7 km, for which exclusion certificates were issued. Of these technical reconnaissance operations, they were carried out on a surface of 1.3 km2, but no confirmation was issued in 2017. As regards the reduction of mine suspected spaces, the general reconnaissance and the additional general survey, which was introduced by amendments to the 2015 Act, was planned by these methods, reduced mine suspected space by 2,26 km2. Last year there were subsequent inclusions of areas of certain surfaces in mine suspected space, this is what happens when the Croatian Mine Action Centre receives concrete information from persons who have certain knowledge that there are mine pollutions in some area, whether they are persons who participated in the Homeland War, so they personally set up mine explosive funds or caused them to do so. As regards the achievement of the second objective, the maintenance of a system marked by the entire SME is certainly one of the major activities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and it guarantees that mine suspected space borders will be visible to all persons who move there and prevent unauthorized entry into such space and possible suffering. On 1 January 2017, mine suspected space was marked as I said with 14.088 tags that point to mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded killings while at the end of the year, on 31 December, mine suspected space was marked with 13.563 tags. A very important segment of overall security is the implementation of information and education to the population on the dangers of mines and parts of mines. In 2017, through a total of 77 activities, 27,893 persons were informed and educated about the dangers of MES, NUS and their parts. The largest number of CROMAC information activities has been achieved in collaboration with the MUP, the Croatian Red Cross and the Croatian Association is helping. As a result, we believe such systematic work is the fact that there were no mine incidents and accidents in the past year. The 4th objective set by the Government for last year is to promote the Croatian mine action system in the international community in order to create conditions for continuing operations in the field of mine action following the implementation of the obligations imposed by the Convention or by cleaning the entire area of mine-explosive resources. It would certainly be a shame for the knowledge, skills and expertise of our companies, our pyrotechnicians and other workers in humanitarian demining to be unused once the Croatian mine space is apparent. This requires a strong step towards other countries, towards the international community and the export of our knowledge, skills to other countries that have a mine problem. The 5th objective was to provide technical assistance in projects to be financed by EU funding from the financial perspective of 2014-2020, and the Croatian Mine Action Centre with partners took part in a whole series of EU funding projects, of which are currently at different stages of realisation. Finally, the 6th objective for 2017 was to draw up a request for an extension of the demining obligation for the Republic of Croatia as set out in Article 5. The Ottawa Convention means the destruction of anti-walking mines in mined areas. Last year, it was known that the target and deadline ending on 1 March 2019 would not be reached, so the government of the Republic of Croatia launched the necessary initiatives to extend that deadline. Accordingly, the cooperation of all MIP bodies, defences, CROMACs on the pooling of necessary data or on the establishment of an entire SME containing the areas and facilities needed for demining, which need to be demined in the next period. The Republic of Croatia has been visited by experts from the Ottawa Convention Implementation Unit and our government of the Republic of Croatia within the deadline. By the end of March 2018, the Commission submitted a request for an extension of the period to be extended to a further seven years. Finally, around the funds spent, out of the total funds provided in the adoption of the demining plan in 2017, which amounted to 505 million 229 thousand and 68 kuna, 346 million 704 thousand 439 kuna were realised. The trend of past years is continuing, especially in 2016, to increasingly share funds from European funds, primarily pre-accession programmes and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. So that in 2017 the total assets amounted to 58.5% of all the means and resources provided. At the end of the low problem in the Republic of Croatia, there is still a huge part of the job done, all stakeholders involved in the problem understand the importance of their obligations and tasks and the goal is to demining the Republic of Croatia as soon as possible, and that, with the resources secured from the state budget, the budget of the units of local self-government and public enterprises, as much as possible, the funds from the European funds and in this sense continued this year and will continue until the final solution to the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia. There's so much at the beginning. I thank you and we will answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83771	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have four replicas. The first one's next, dear fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83772	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Katic, you have offered us here in this report a series of useful and concrete data, but I have reported on the replica for one, and when you have said in a surreal way how much has been spent on the process of demining in the Republic of Croatia, then that figure seems impressive, it is 5 and a half billion kuna, and perhaps when we talk about these topics that have been related to the Homeland War, someone has put them there, the Croats have suffered in the war, and they suffer and it is financial and false to say that those mines that have not fallen from the sky have not been destroyed by all the cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83773	You want an answer? No, good. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83774	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I have closely followed this opening exhibition of yours regarding the demining project in the Republic of Croatia, and I am pleased that you mentioned that the funds allocated to other useful forest functions will be used this year for demining. I am also pleased that the plan is to demining one part of the economic forest in one county, I think there is also great potential for the Republic of Croatia to demine forest areas as soon as possible so that these forests can be economically used, but my question goes in this direction. If there was a lack of funds from the OCFŠ, and some are committed to abolishing the OCFŠ fee, how much would it slow the demining in the Republic of Croatia and how much more slowly would it be demining without these funds, if we already know that hundreds of millions of kuna have been invested from this demining source?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83775	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83776	Dear Mr. Representative, these are all significant funds obtained through the resources of the Generally Useful Forest Functions, which are foreseen for this year at around 50 million kuna, which is if we look at the state budget where around 130 million kuna is predicted to mean a very large percentage. And that would certainly, if they fail to find funding from the European Funds, slow down demining operations in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83777	Let's move on, dear colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83778	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Katic for Associates. I have one question. See, you pointed out that your biggest problem is financial resources, right? In the last nine years, you've spent 2.7 billion kunas, you've asked for more, and I've just heard that total spending has been spent so far in five and a half billion kunas in 20 years. Party Change Croatia offers only concrete solutions, here is a solution. During one year, this state, the state budget pays bankers 11 billion kuna interest, we are here, I have several times explained that in one year 5 billion kuna can be saved to refinance the government debt. So for 5 billion kuna, you don't have enough workers to extract mine explosives and we can clear Croatia within a year, two, we don't need European funds, you see a concrete solution. Let's suggest, we'll be the first to support you in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83779	Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83780	Thank you very much. Respected secretary in Split-Dalmatia County 21 million square meters is mine-suspecting. Of course, farmers have had 39 accidents since the Homeland War, seven fatalities. We have, and so recently the Sinjsko polje has been cleaned in 2016. We found the bells of VBR rockets. We still have suspicions and military polygon of the Kukuzovac in the town of Sinj in the area, what are you doing under these measures? Do we have numerous victims and not to be threatened, farmers are afraid, even some find mines, here I mentioned in the Sinj field a few years ago a man found bells from the Homeland War, whether that money we had these billions that you were counting was transparently invested and whether those critical points were cleaned up, and we see that there's still a huge area, not just the woods Not only forests, but agricultural land and city centers. [[Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83781	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83782	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. Of course, the critical points, which are where people live, they move first, and it's cleaned up, now they're intensively cleaning up and finishing up agricultural areas, what's most important for people's lives. Now the next few years are in the first plan of the forest surface. As far as the Kukuzovac military polygon is concerned, it will be made and believed and demined in this year, 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83783	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83784	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The report on the implementation of the mine action plan and the funds spent in 2017 and the analysis of the nine-year implementation of the programme from 2009 to 2019 indicates that only in the first year of the implementation of the annual insurance for tasks aimed at reducing the mine suspected area was the level of planned funds and programmes. In the period 2010-2014, the annual realisation of suspected mine suspected areas is significantly deviating from planned programmes due to a significantly lower amount of collateral at the annual level. In the last 3 years, the planned and provided financial resources are greater than planned by the programme, but are not fully realised. The source of large-scale financial resources from planned programmes is in front of EU access funds and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development through the Rural Development Programme 2014/20. may use additional funds and the implementation and implementation of mine action plans and demining of the Republic of Croatia. During the implementation of the programme, in line with the above indicators, the need for a new strategic document was created to establish the conditions for a capacitated anti-mining system with the aim of carrying out demining operations of technical, general and supplementary generalisation in accordance with the provided financial means. At annual levels and fully fulfils the obligations set out in Article 5 of the destruction of mines in the mined areas contained in the Ottava Convention after 2019 as soon as possible. On 1 January 2017, the total mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was, as we heard from the Secretary of State, 446.6 km square and spread within 65 cities and municipalities in 9 of our counties and was marked with 14 000 0.88 tags indicating the mine danger and possible discovery of unexploded artificial assets. We heard that, too, those markings were reduced to 13573. In 2017, two directors and one performer managed the demining Centro. The administrative board of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was established in July 2017. On 31 December 2017, the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was 411 494 688 square meters, i.e. 411.5 km square. In 2017, of plans 44.4 km of square jobs demining was carried out on an area of 38.5 km of square. The failure to complete demining operations was conditioned by the subsequent launch of demining operations with the state budget from the position of the KEFŠ compensation because the agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Mine Action Centre was signed only in September 2017. Also demining, rebuilding and protecting forests, forest land in protected and... Areas in the Danube-Drav region of natural resources to be financed by the European Regional Development Fund and cohesion funds which did not start implementation in 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the conduct of quality control operations in the course of demining operations on 42 workshops, deminings have been found not to meet the prescribed quality conditions and repetition is warranted. Re-mining on a total surface of 84 905 square meters. During the implementation of the final quality control, the Commission found in 29 cases that the tasks were not carried out in quality and that a repeat of the business was ordered for a total of 41 559 square metres. During 2017 18 information was received on mine mine-exploded and non-exploded killings of which 14 findings were related to areas which were the subject of operations, and 4 findings related to findings outside the mine-suspecting area. The largest share of demining operations in 2017 was carried out by Researcher d.o.o. 7.63% Doking demining d.o.o. 7.38% and Green Square by 5.38%. The largest realization of demining operations was during May and from July to October because of the intensive activities of demining agricultural areas, especially in Ličko-Senj County and demining jobs in... from anti-pre-accession funds and transitional instruments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the major planned tasks foreseen for 2017 is certain to address the most important mine problem of the Croatian agricultural land through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The implementation of agreed demining operations in Ličko-Senjska, Osijek-Baranja, Požeško-Slavonska, Sisak-Moslavina, Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska and Zadar County in 2017 created conditions for demining the remaining mine suspected agricultural land. In Lika-Senjska and Sisak-Moslavina County in the first half of 2018, the execution of which will be completely removed mine risk from the agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia. Based on the analysis carried out, the structures of the area in mine suspected areas in late 2017, 4.3% of the mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia was identified as agricultural areas. 95.3% of mine suspected area as forest surfaces and 0.4% mine suspected area such as other surfaces, water, wetland, rocks, slides, stones, shores and others. The Croatian Mine Action Centre in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration, units of local and regional self-government of the target sector and local population continued to conduct information and education in the course of 2017 on the dangers of mine explosive assets and unexploded murderous assets and their parts. In total, 75 activities, education and information of the population with a goal were planned, targeted mine hazard groups in 2017. There were no mine incidents and accidents in the period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 and this is commendable. From 1.1. '96. years to 31. 12. In 2017 there were 423 mine incidents and accidents in which 595 people died, 203 people died, 271 people suffered serious injuries, while 120 suffered minor physical injuries. The Croatian Mine Action Centre and other stakeholders of the mine action system have conducted a number of activities to promote the Croatian system, in mine action, the international community, according to the international community of diplomatic representatives of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of donor countries. With the adoption of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017, the total elections and financial plan of the Croatian Mine Action Centre amounted to €362 million 764 for 2017. After the rebalancing of the State budget for 2017 and the redistributions approved by the Minister of Finance, the current financial plan for 2017 amounted to 280 million 687 thousand 15 kn. According to the election of funding, the funds have been made out of general income and income of EUR 178 million, which is the participation of the state budget and EU assistance, amounting to €12 million in EU aid, source 51, and we have a further €69 million in aid to the government and international organisations. We have... thousands of 863 kuna donations from companies, public enterprises and others outside the general government, which have been made through the state budget of 2 million 166 thousand 506 kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Out of the total planned funds in 2017 worth 280 million 687 thousand 15 kuna, 262 million were spent... Kuna, 72.27% compared to the original financial plan for 2017 and 93.39% of the current financial plan for 2017 after the rebalancing and redistribution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on the action plan for 2017, the financing of demining and planned operations, from the EU State budget and aid resources, from the European Regional Development Fund, from the state budget, from the specific position of the compensation for the general useful function of the forest, which is collected by the Ministry of Agriculture, the funding of grants paid to the state budget, direct donation, through the ITF international foundations and the European Agricultural Fund, whose beneficiaries are the counties that directly pay for demining operations. In particular, it should be pointed out that in 2017 the funds realised for demining operations from the EU source are significantly higher than those provided by the state budget and other sources. That's it. that 202 million 786 thousand 163 kn is realised from the EU as a whole, which is the largest withdrawal of European demining funds so far. In 2017, donations amounting to 2 million kuna were planned, and they were realised, i.e. The demining operations amounting to 2 million 166 thousand 506 kn were also carried out. In the 2017 mine action plan for demining operations, 505 million 229 thousand 068 kuna and 80 Lips were planned out of all elections during the year for demining operations, i.e. paid to authorised persons carrying out demining operations 346 million 704 thousand 439 kuna. In 2017 demining operations were carried out on the surfaces of 38 thousand 519 m2 worth 293 million 632 thousand 909 kuna, which is the average price of 7.62 kuna per m2 which is of course without VAT. The average price of demining operations compared to the average overall business in 2016, which was 6,13 kn per m2 which is due to market stabilisation in the mine action system, is noticeable. In 2017, a total of 7 demining works were carried out in the implementation of the tasks of demining military sites and buildings, 6 of which were planned activities, and one outside of the planning activity. The demining was conducted in the area of one military warehouse, 2 military 3 military polygons. This would be in front of the Anti-minal Action and Implementation Club in 2017 and we support this report on the implementation of the mine action plan, with the desire to demining as many mine suspected areas as possible and as few accidents as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83785	Thank you. Before we go any further, let's just welcome the students and pupils of the Kamen Šine Split elementary school, this is the second group we welcome them and that first group that was, welcome... Now let's go to replicas we don't have, so let's go to another debate, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83786	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Director with an associate. Therefore, the report on the implementation of the mine action plan for 2017 is a total part of the realisation of the commitments which, among other things, have been taken over from the so-called The Conventions of Ottawa, therefore, on the ban on the use of the production and transfer of anti-walking mines and their destruction, and the other of which could be said the Dubrovnik Convention, hence the Convention on Criminal Shooting in which Croatia was adopted, particularly Mrs Diana Pleština, played a major role and was signed in Dubrovnik and organised around it by a large convention that we all supported. The national mine action programme, covering the period 2009-2017, provides for the total mine removal by 2019, maintenance of the characteristics of mine areas, public education programme, rehabilitation care including psychosocial rehabilitation and economic reintegration of victims and promotion of the Croatian mine system on the international stage, or as models that some countries have similar problems can take over. The funds and demining area have been systematically reduced since 2010 compared to this plan adopted in 2009. In 2017, there was a change, more funds were spent than planned although they were later revised, but 333 million were planned and 346.7 million were spent, but less than the originally planned area was demined. So the plan itself provides for 70.2 square kilometers, and then it's reduced to one 58 or 40 and some square kilometers, in any case, the realization has undermined the original plan of 70 and this reduced plan and it was 36.5 square kilometers. The results between 2009 and 2017 are planned to demine 887 square kilometers, and are literally demining 570.7 square kilometers and are planned to spend 3 billion 872 kunas, while 2 billion 665 kunas have been spent. It is obvious from the data that a new intervention programme and demining and financing needs to be implemented, as it failed both in one respect and in another until 2017 by the end of 2017. If a plan is to be reached from this report, it is not exactly an intention to reach a plan for full demining by 2019, but that an extension will be sought, but regardless of the demand for extension at this rate will not be met, or the objectives we have set here. And I would say that the main conclusion of this report should be a new programme and demining and financing that will be realistic but also ambitious so that we can get rid of this evil. 1. In January 2017, according to this report, there were 446.6 square kilometers of mine suspected area, already said in 65 cities, 9 counties, etc. Compared to the wider multiannual plan, the annual plan for 2017 reduced ambition, here I have, to 58.3 square kilometers, but demined in 2017 is 44.4 or no excuse, it was a plan for demining itself, and 58 was also for reconnaissance. Now, by the end of that year, 411.5 square kilometers were demined, according to my calculations it turns out that 35.1 square kilometers were demined in 2017, but the report itself said that 38.5 square kilometers were demining in 2017. I'm asking, where did you get that number because when you subtract 411.5 from 446, you get 35.1 square kilometers. So a certain surface area with numbers is going through this whole report that can't be resisted by man to get the impression that no one is going to read it, so we can be a little bit more liberal with numbers. Control found relatively little bad work done. What's bad in the report and makes it less transparent is that they mix data in square kilometers and square meters all the time and then you don't get a clear picture, you have to keep counting there and back to see how demining it really is, how much is really planned, how much is the realisation compared to the plan. The report also includes a report on the work of certain companies and mentions a DOK-ING researcher and a green square like those most done, otherwise all in one-digit percentage numbers, so 7.63 to 5.38. However, the table accompanying the report for DOK-ING is 0% or is said to have demined a thousand square meters in 2017, so I don't know what exactly, whether the data in the table or the data above the table are listed as data for these 3 companies, as the ones that did the most work. Like I said, there's a lot of, if I may say so, creaminess and inaccuracies in this report. What gets absolutely into the eyes is that 40 different companies are engaged in demining. This almost certainly brings inequalities, anyone who has done anything, knows that it is very difficult to maintain some uniform criteria and uniform quality, if 40 different companies are engaged in one job. The question of voice and HSU is why. Why 40 companies? Is there perhaps nothing that could be focused on both doing this work more efficiently and with a more uniform quality? For demining in 2018 as far as agricultural land is concerned, this leaves 10 square kilometres. Now, the use of European funds, there are nice sentences but bad tables. Therefore, as regards the use of European funds, they are used for the period 2014-2020, so for this financial perspective, there is the possibility of using new funds, new specialised projects. Where is it? You can't tell from this report. Another point mentioned in the report is mine danger education, according to a large number of people, more than 27,000 people, who participated in the education programme. Who, however, conducts education, and how are companies that conduct education chosen? Here are mentioned 3 companies, 2 of which are logical, companies, institutions, which are 2 logical, one is the MUP, one is the Croatian Red Cross, however one called the Croatian Association helps. I went to look for this association Croatia helps on the internet, according to what I found, it is an association founded by the city of Zagreb, has no contact with the person, the mission is very general, therefore, the cooperation of cities. Under the heading of donors, that association, the last year mentioned in 2015 is not mentioned any donor name. However, it's not that he's dead... If it were a dead association, is it about the new rules of privacy, updated 21.5.2018 So maybe it wouldn't be bad to know more about these associations outside these obvious ministries and state agencies and large international associations, such as the Red Cross, who are they that are getting money for education? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for that part of the program that was talking about the economic reintegration of the victims, I found nothing. So, is it still done, does it even exist? As far as EU funding concerns what I said, sentences are nice, but tables are not so nice. So, in 2017 it was missed to launch the project Karlovac Carst, because as it is said here, there was no capacity either by those who demining, nor by the county. On the other hand... Velebit, another demining project, is currently being prepared, so it was also not on the agenda, as regards the implementation in 2017 of the Cohesion Fund Natura Vita, it was planned to draw 17 million kuna from it, retreated zero, according to the table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The European Regional Development Fund, planned to withdraw 385 thousand kuna, has withdrawn zero. Why? The Ministry of Agriculture planned 40 million kunas, gave nothing, why? The report, I think, clearly shows that in this business, which is an important job, in the first place, for the normal lives of all the people in this country, more systems are needed, that the system needs to be simplified, including all these crowds of different organisations, which participate on the one hand in demining, and on the other hand in education, and we don't know exactly who it's about. A stronger focus is needed on the implementation of the plan and on the implementation of what is the main task of this entire project and absolutely requires greater transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83787	Thank you very much. Now we're going to continue with the representatives' clubs. And the first is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Ranko Ostojic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83788	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. Here, 20 years after the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre, Croatia is not sure we still have a serious mileage of the untapped area, a mine suspected and should simply say that there is no shift in what should be a real priority. I am saying this because I have a feeling that it is easy to come up with a subject that would be of the most important national interest to the Republic of Croatia, given that the share of tourism in the GDP is news that we still have over 400 or 450 km of unminded area and that what is in this report and Mr Secretary of State, which I also welcome together with my associates, said that at this rate we now have, it will take a minimum of 13 years for Croatia to be demined and if in fact what is certain and what has been silenced in this report is going to happen, and that there will be no more EU funds to prepare for that, very soon, means in 2020, that it will last, then, who knows how many years. So I'm going to talk more about what's not said than what might be said or read through numbers. Here is just one important example, which is in 2017 at 36,5 or 31,5 or no matter how many miles of squares are cleared, 346 million kunas have been spent, now compare it to 2014 in which 83,8 km was demined by 280 million kuna. And it comes to you that about one more number needs to be highlighted, which is that in 2017 it means that in the past 10 years, only 1289 mine-explosive funds have been found, which is approximately the same, and this number is quite interesting when we look at, on average, about 264 000 kuna per mine found. You should also see in these numbers here of 346 million when you multiply 6.13 kuna per metre by square how many companies get, that's actually 223 million, that means somewhere goes 120 and some million kuna differences. I'm saying all of this for reasons why I think this pace and this kind of approach to demining gives serious doubt that actually someone interested in this service activity being done, which means demining, is a very good business still. And we don't really have an interest in clearing Croatia from mine suspected spaces, that we finally become a country that will be able to say with certainty that it's been cleared from mines, and that's what I'm saying especially because if you look at what's happening to us with demining areas where there are certificates that it's been cleared, etc., and then year after year increases the number of assets actually found. I see in this report the only positive and most important thing, which is that in the implementation of mine action activities and spent financial resources for 2017 there were no mine victims, but I must say that since there were fewer mines found, that it was much less area, I'm not sure that it was actually in the correlation with the safety of the pyrotechnicians themselves. What's true and it's here is obviously keeping a good job. EU funds are missing funds from the state budget, which will soon dry up, and then we won't be in the same situation and the number of demining projects on which no mine has been found, no means during the demining work, says that someone is doing something bad, planning or writing down actually what comes under the word suspiciously. Now I want to talk suspiciously about that word, which is that more resources are spent, less square miles, and that's how these mine suspected spaces are reduced. And I think that this should really point out that these are really suspicious business with suspicious intentions and that must not happen in Croatia, our interest should be above all to keep this country clean from mines and not to give that variant, which is that, in fact, by finding any area that we can so assess, we see as a favourable and possible business. When I was just saying that it takes us at least 13 years at this rate, mathematics is very simple, if it's 36.5 square miles in one year, 58.3 as planned, then for 446 kilometers square as much as there is left, figure out whether I missed out maybe for a few months or not, but I'm afraid I didn't make any mistakes, and unfortunately, all of this is going to try to be still poorly justified. Only the delay in the projects is the question, money from European funds etc., cannot justify the situation, which is that someone has not made a deal, that someone has not agreed with the Croatian forests, that no EU funds have been withdrawn, that something has not been done. We all remember the rebalancing that was and that should be everyone's concern, we had 362 million kuna, and suddenly it fell 280 million kuna. Someone here hasn't done their job, and that's what we keep quiet in this report again, and for that reason, I don't think such excuses are acceptable. I'll say one more thing about demining and planning itself. What remains and what we have and on the Committee on Internal Policy, national security, follows us, in fact, is a period in which we will need to prepare for a new way, or when there is no more of these European funds, when it comes to the situation that it will have to be done by people who, at the moment, could be left to work, that a special strategy should be prepared for us not to let those who have done very difficult jobs, pyrotechnics, etc., happen to them that at the moment we don't actually have a plan for these people at the moment of happiness Croatia be demined. I repeat, it must not happen to any interest that demining takes as long as possible, it should last as short as possible and should be made of course, quality in such a way that the means actually spent are used and handled in the best possible way. Thank you. Academician ŽELJO REINER:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83789	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83790	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have a report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan and spent funds for 2017. A report that does not essentially differ from previous reports, and what citizens and all of us should first of all be interested in when Croatia will finally be demined. As is known, we have already made several promises of the official deadlines when demining should be almost even reported to the EU and the UN, so this should have been over in 2019. we see that all deadlines have been broken and that we still do not have a date when Croatia could be clear from mines. Thanks to this, we still do not have a date when the Croatian country will be fully put into office we do not have a date when Croatian citizens will feel safe when they move on their own country. When we analyse these data that are ahead of us, it is always good to look at what is the situation in some other countries that also had a major problem in minefields and then it is very sad to see the fact that some African countries are much more effective than Croatia in cleaning mines. I say it is sad to see the reasons why African countries do not have EU funds or are generally as rich as Croatia. Now, let's say Mozambique has cleared the whole country of mines in 20 years with relatively modest means and removed 171,000 mines. If we look at the report that's in front of us, in a year we've cleared 1,300 mines in a year. So this means that this rate of Croatia should clean up Mozambique for 150 years, when Croatian pyrotechnics clean up the same terrain would take them 150 years, which means that there is obviously a problem somewhere. This problem becomes even more pronounced when we look at statistics year by year, e.g. Every year, more and more money is being spent, less and less space is being cleaned and less and less mines are being found. So in some previous years, there were 10,000 mines a year, and last year I repeat only 1300. Especially amazing is the fact that clean days are no longer just minefields but clean so-called. mine suspected fields, which means that someone literally in his office, looking at a map, assesses an area of mine suspected and then exits a pyrotechnician to discover that there is not a single mine in that area. So, in as many as 28 areas where the pyrotechnics were reviewing last year, there was not one single mine or one. So let's say that the areas of Obrovc, the Benkovac area, the Skradin area, the Vodice area have been reviewed and, ironically, in the report, the ministry's representatives have not been a single victim. So that she would be a victim if there wasn't a single mine. So it's basically kind of logical. What's the problem here? The problem here is that EU demining funds are increasing from year to year. At this point, they are much larger than budget funds and there is serious doubt that someone knowing that money will come from outside simply trying to earn it. He's trying to make money, draw money against the public interest. It shows what the problem is, in general, when the state's jurisdiction and matters are given into the hands of private companies. We've often had cases that the moment something was left out of the state hands to privates that usually there was a reduction in wages, an increase in profits, and at the same time a decrease in the quality of work, and here we have a flagrant example. I think you all know that individual owners of a demining company committed at least violations and illegality if not classic crimes. It is known that today we have owners of demining companies who had previously shut down three demining companies. Of course, before that they left the workers unpaid, they never charged, but it still does not prevent them from doing the same work they did before. Since 1998, Croatia has spent more than 5 billion kuna demining, and it is still unclear how long this demining will take and how many billion kunas more to be spent. I would invite all those in charge of this issue to take this issue very seriously and not simply allow themselves to be in the same position as Martina Dalic or current Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic today. If there's any giggling, if there's any guessing, if there's any interesting lobby, stop it in time, don't wait for the cars to break down on you. Do your job the way it needs to be done, which is that you work in the interest of citizens, not in the interest of a few tycoons... Given what I have now stated, given that we do not have a date for Croatia to be demined, given the very poor efficiency of work in the past year, as compared to previous years, and in comparison with other countries that have implemented or implemented demining, the Live Wall will not accept this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83791	Thank you very much. Next we now move on to an individual debate, and the next speaker will be Honored Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83792	Thank you very much. We're talking about a very important topic, we're talking about with spent 5 billion kuna, which is a huge amount, however, I'm going to ask once more when in the replica a number of questions, so we're talking here, and a colleague of Bunjac has mentioned... The areas that are mine-suspecting, no mines were found, we're talking about a large amount of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in the town of Sinj, in fact in Split Dalmatian County we have 21 million square meters of suspicious and untapped areas, because we know that this is the area, mainly the Vrlic area... The area, under Dinara, not only the forest area, but the agricultural area, from the Homeland War to now, we have 39 accidents, of which 7 fatal accidents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So seven people died unfortunately of mines, and even in the Sinj field are from rocketling the city of Sinj,... 2016 was demined and one large number of bell mines, so-called where people did their farming work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, we have a key problem, which we have a military polygon of the former army, the JNA which is not, i.e. It was demining and later it was found that there were still mines in the centre of the town of Sinja in the suburbs, where children and people are doing their jobs, where we have the former JNA army against all conventions, essentially mined in front of that facility, in front of the fences of that military polygon and that area is pictured in the centre of the city of Sinja in the very center and it is very serious. And we're talking about 5 billion kunas that have been spent, i.e. which so far are invested in demining. Is that embarrassing? That one surface, I don't know how many squares there are, looks to me like 20 or 30 acres, something even more, 200 acres of pardon, that range isn't demining. The city itself, the... They enter the city of Sinj, between Tisn and Sinj, means one area of location which is very dangerous and now I don't understand, that exactly where people live, where it's dangerous for people, even in the Homeland War, we have a man, the youngest victim, a civilian in the Homeland War, a 14-year-old boy, lost both legs outside the polygon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because I repeat again, that it was mined against all conventions and now I don't know, I don't get a clear answer from the secretary, says this year we'll probably demining, and there are a number of residents, children, cattle. I'm passing through, I don't understand, which is why so far this area, which is in the middle of the city of Sinja, i.e. in the center, the Kukuzovite military polygon, which is why it is not demined. I would like to point out once again that the Split Dalmatian County, still, in a very risky group, is once again, that in this area of the Split Dalmatian County, we have 21 million square meters not demining. That we have a large number of victims, that we have finds in the field, even the Sinj field of mine remains, i.e. So-called rocket bells fired from multiple pipe action pitchers. It means back in '93. This, these missiles were fired and they were still found, so in 2016, a larger number was found. This is about a very big problem. Here, again, we can see that the victims are huge victims, we see that we have a large area that is undefined, not only in the forest and in the dinar area, but also in the agricultural area, because that's how the line went in the Homeland War, in the Cetina area, ultimately, as the drawing moves, we don't have the cards. Probably the JNA didn't leave the cards, they did it and the Serbs, as they thought of it, was one of the key problems and they just left behind and lit up death. And unfortunately, here are 7 lives and after the Homeland War, in this area, are essentially victims of the Homeland War. And another key question, can you determine exactly when it will demine, can you answer me? I think one object, former polygon, military Kukuzovac, is demining because it's located next to the village itself, i.e. I am the city of Sinj, between Tisn and Sinj, along the Brnaza itself, along the main road, i.e. The state road D1 where we have an entrepreneurial zone, the Kukuzovac Economic Area, we have an entrepreneurial zone immediately on the other hand, from the Dismo municipality, where we are economic operators in large numbers, where children play, I repeat again, that this is one of the key problems. I expect a clear answer from you, for these 21 million square meters in the Split Dalmatian county of the untapped area, not only forests and mountainous areas, but also agricultural areas, and also where people risk their lives, because some even process that country at risk, and we have a problem here, especially once again, when you will, the problem is the biggest meaning of this Kukuzovac polygon. Here is the basic question when you will be demined by what is already in the urban part of the town of Sinja, which is the Kukuzovac polygon, which is life-threatening. We see 5 billion kunas we've invested, so far we're talking about this amount in demining, and in the middle of the city of Sin, we have a dangerous non-minorized area. Thank you very much. If I can get an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83793	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83794	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj, how you comment on the fact that the extraction of one mine in 2009 cost 37,000 kuna and 2017. 270 thousand kuna? Did the pyrotechnics in the meantime lose their sense of finding mines or have some new technology introduced or which is why a mine now costs 5-6 times more than it cost 7-8 years ago? Is that actually the same way as when the Commissioners entered Agrokor, so suddenly they increased their fees by 9-10 times because someone made it possible for them? So where did that price difference come from? Is this also seen in the report and what is your general view of it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83795	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83796	I... for the Split-Dalmatia County which was occupied in that part of the virtue,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And according to Drnis, it's a huge space that was occupied and certainly, because they didn't have a large number of forces back then, they didn't have, it's a big area, they didn't have pedestrians, and it was provided by mines, and those spaces remained mined and they were probably declared areas suspicious. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why they were found suspicious, I'm not in it right now but suspicious. However, the fact that there was a major problem with demining and that various stakeholders who were also private companies, who made a lot more money than they had done before, were involved, was demining. Which is why, I can't know the exact reason, but I should have known the secretary and explained it to you already when you were talking, it should have been on behalf of you, in order to not forget to answer that now, he should have already answered. Anyway, the problem is the biggest thing in the city of Sin we have military i.e. A military facility that wasn't demined, and five billion kunas we spent. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83797	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83798	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, we have a report on the implementation of the Mine Action Plan for 2017 and I think we can all agree that the timely and effective solution to the mine problem in the Republic of Croatia is of paramount importance to all of us. It is primarily due to the preservation of human lives, but also the effects it has on the economy, tourism, of course, and rural development. According to the data we have in front of us and data from the Croatian Mine Action Centre more than 95% of the surface area of mine suspected areas that remain are forests and forest land. We also need to be aware of the fact that demining on such surfaces requires additional efforts and technologies because of the specificity of the terrain on which mines are located, configurations and, of course, the working conditions of such fields. However, there are also numerous benefits for which it is necessary to speed up all these processes in any case. In the process of order, it's a human factor and safety. Namely, there are numerous situations where all those who work in forestry, not only in forestry but also in forests based industries or activities, then other stakeholders such as hunters, fishermen, hikers and others, they exhibit their lives daily, especially in these border areas of mine suspected areas. Working inaccessible areas, in particular in terms of forest surfaces, are also maintained in management, i.e. it might be better to say not to forest management, which, with the economic or financial impact of inability... forest management is dragging behind it and many other problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would also mention the inability to intervene in the occurrence and spread of certain plant diseases, plant pests or pests, and the inability of the profession to intervene in such areas that are inaccessible, leading to additional problems, and what problems could cause one pest of the type of underpasses we had the opportunity to see and unfortunately look at every day and in the area of Gorski Kotar. In addition to these economic functions of the forest, there are also generally useful functions of forests which are also affected by these and when we are already touching the generally useful functions of the forest, I would stress that from the compensation for the general useful functions of the forest which is very often mentioned in this place with a series of negative connotations, as much as 30% of the resources from the generally useful functions of the forest are used precisely to demining mine suspected areas. It should also be noted that this amount was doubled compared to some previous period when it was 13%. Therefore, from these funds, more financing for 2017 was made possible for the demining of 475 hectares of forest and forest land. It is also important to mention that the agreement of the Ministry and CROMAC for 2018 provides for 55 million kuna for now. Of course, such funds can be increased as for 2017 if the inflow for this fee is higher, which amounts to more than 500 hectares of forest and forest land. It is important to stress that both the Croatian forests and the Ministry of Agriculture are one of the major donors for demining. We're talking about a few projects. The importance of the Naturavita project to be reiterated, i.e. demining, rebuilding and protecting forests and forest land in protected and Natura 2000 areas in the Danube and Drava region, which should be supported by EU funding. Equally, the continuation of the systematic demining of economic forests, which in addition to the necessary management, will also enable this economic financial effect to be made possible in the first place and the safety of all those employed in forestry, which are related to forestry, but also to those others who are in contact with those areas mentioned by hunters, fishermen, hikers, hikers and of course the population that lives there. But on this occasion I would also appeal once again to all the competent institutions, to all the stakeholders in this process to do everything to speed up the actual processes of project implementation, the processes of getting the project documentation themselves so that all these projects could be implemented and actually completed in time because it's all in our interest to all of us. And in the end, I can't mention and, of course, praise the county from which I come from, it's the carlovac county which, even in this report mentioned on the benches as one of the donors, but as well as the potential partner in the project, Karlovac Karst project envisions demining, but also management in all the county-protected Natura 2000 areas. The demining and restoration of forest eco-systems in the area of Krpel is planned, it is one of the areas around which the former Yugoslav People's Army military was located, which, after the explosion, actually left behind a good part of the polluted area, which remained suspiciously and workingly inaccessible. And here, in the end, I can only conclude that I hope that we will achieve the planned plan that would clear Croatia from the mines that we have prolonged until 2026 in time. And that in the near future all our foresters, hunters, planned, hikers, farmers and all residents living alongside these areas of mine suspected areas will be able to work, make and live in peace without fear and endanger their own lives in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83799	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83800	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry. Dear Representative Lipošak, '96. The demining law was adopted when systematic planning and implementation of demining was carried out. 2005. The Law on Human Mine Action, 2015, was adopted by the Law on Mine Action. The total mine suspected area in Croatia is 440.6 km square. My question to you, or your opinion, is, what about the use of battle charges with the poored uranium, how common was it in the Homeland War, do you have any information? And how much of this is used today on training polygons, for training, especially near you in Slunj? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83801	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Liposhak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83802	Thank you, colleague Kirin. So I can say personally that I have no knowledge, nor am I relevant to having such information, or to export it. I can only say that I have had the opportunity to work as an employee of the Croatian Forests in the areas you mention and speak, and I would only rely on that much more important than all of this to connect systems that participate in all these processes, Croatian Forests, Hunting Union, Croatian Mine Action Centre, so that we do not know that what happened to me personally when you run a group of 20 to 30 people, that you happen to have no relevant information and that you are either in a mine suspected area or in an area where there are really mine explosives. I think all the data is relevant, that it just needs to connect more and such systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83803	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Angel Strick. Here you go. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] Here's our colleague and colleague, our break is over, so we'll continue the individual debate now being held by the esteemed representative Angelko Strick, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83805	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about the implementation of a mine action plan and spent financial resources, I think it is desirable to give a review of why we are even discussing this issue. The Republic of Croatia was following its independence in '91. G. experienced unimaginable and brutal aggression by Serbia-Montenegro or acts of rebel Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. This aggression has caused immense suffering for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, thousands of dead and missing and tens of thousands wounded. In addition to the most painful and difficult losses related to the loss of our citizens, the Republic of Croatia has also experienced huge material losses in the water of destroyed villages and cities, destroyed industrial and energy plants, roads and communication centres and the mined area through the occupation of 1/3 of its territory. After most of the occupied area of the Republic of Croatia was released in '95. G. through military-related actions Flash and Storm and after the peaceful reintegration of Croatian Podunje in '98. Sir, Croatia has circled its territory and returned it to its constitutional order. But Croatia has been waiting for a remarkable task. Namely, according to the data that was in September '95. HV's main headquarters provided information that around 3 million anti-arming and anti-walking mines were placed in the Republic of Croatia 1:1 and the territory was polluted with 100 000 unexploded grenades and mines, i.e. The mines and cannon missiles polluted some 300,000 feet of land. For the removal of unexploded missiles, another million hectares of land had to be examined. In order for the whole process to be carried out in a good way, one legal framework should naturally be given to him, so that we can talk about 3 demining periods. The first period of demining, we're talking about the period of aggression, occupation, 1/3 of state space, about '91. And until the end of '95. years, i.e. By the end of the military-related action Flash and Storm. The Republic of Croatia has not legislated the issue of demining. During that period, the operators of these activities were units within the HV and the police. During the 4 years of the war, more than 200,000 mines and unexploded missiles were demined but additional 100,000 mines were planted on the new lines of separation or on the state border. In the second period since March '96. until the first half of '98. Mr., the Croatian Parliament passed the first law concerning demining i.e. The demining law. The demining system established by the first law was based on the operation of only one state-owned company, AKD Mungos d.o.o. the demining operations carried out on a non-discriminatory basis and the overall control of the operations of demining was in the jurisdiction of the MUP. The third period of demining, we speak after signing a letter of understanding between the UN and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through the two-year application of the law, have seen certain shortcomings that have imposed the need to improve regulation. After that in '98. the first amendments and additions of the Mine Action Act to be made during the third period of demining have been adopted. The most significant change concerned legal persons performing demining operations. It has been found that the legal provision under which only legal persons whose founder of the Republic of Croatia is authorised to carry out demining operations has proved ineffective since it has been overly set up and has not met the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Following this, it has been overlooked that demining operations can be carried out by legal persons registered for demining operations and that they can be registered if they have the approval of the MUP. Teacherly, for the first time it was established and developed the implementation of the Institute of Professional Control over the operation of demining operations conducted by pyrotechnicians, supervisors of the Croatian Mines Centre, since 11 months of '98. Croatian Mine Action Centre, which was a regulation in February of '98. founded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In addition, the abovementioned centre is given the power to negotiate transactions with legal persons. There are several amendments and additions to the legislation in the coming years. When we talk about 20017 it is important to point out that the mine action plan plans to carry out demining operations, technical reconnaissance and additional general reconnaissance to an area of 58.3 km square, a total reduction of mine suspected areas of 36.5 km square. Of the insurance funds in the adoption of the plan in 2017, totalling 505 million kuna, 346 million kuna was realised. I stress that the 2016 trend continues with funds for demining secured and EU funds, with 58.5% of the total financial resources and resources being provided in 2017. In 2017, there was no mine incident, no mine accident, which is most important from the achievement of the mine action plan for 2017 and final, although since '98. up to 2017 spent around €5.4 billion, out of which from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, €3.1 billion, donations and support of €1.1 billion, by the World Bank 256 million and by legal entities 938 million. The Republic of Croatia will not be able to achieve its most important goal, which is to end the demining process by 2019. On 31.12.2017, in the Republic of Croatia there is still 441 km of square mine suspected area that needs to be demined and it will be necessary to find a way to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83806	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is that of the respected representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83807	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Director, Associates. So here is the report on the mine action plan and spent funds in 2017, but here, we recently marked the 20th anniversary of the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre. In order to try to sum up these 20 years in one sentence, this could be difficult, but we could say that the Republic of Croatia is still polluted with mines, that demining is an extremely expensive activity, that a total of 595 people, of which 203 fatal, but that despite the many problems in the demining system, Croatia has built a unique, innovative system and has imposed itself on the world as a leader of humanitarian demining. This report, like all previous ones, points to an ever-increasing problem of demining money, and it is present and we need to reconcile with it, find ways and opportunities to make as much use of European funds as possible and end this big operation. Lack of funds is the root cause of the long-term demining of our country. Although the demining system is facing other equally important and difficult problems from year to year, let's say one rainy year of frequent rain, etc. She brought back the backlog that was behind us. The report clearly points out that EU funding today represents a significant source of financing of the mine action system and is also a significant donation, as well as funding from the state budget, but it is clear that CROMAC must continue to seek and find ways of financing that will ensure the continuity and decent price of demining operations and guarantee the safety and dignity of pyrotechnicians. In particular, it refers to EU funds, given that there are indeed various opportunities to be used in this work. The average price of demining operations, as stated in the report, was 7 kuna per metre square metre. The report found this price in a way that the total amount spent in demining operations was divided by the total areas on which demining operations were carried out, however there is absolutely no data on the costs incurred by non-quality companies engaged in demining operations. It is not known how much it costs to repeat jobs and other jobs necessary once quality control and quality control has been carried out and quality control has been established that they have not met the prescribed quality conditions. One of these companies was former Minister Kotromanovic in some years that I remember well which she repeated several times the same mistakes. There's no record of which companies don't do a good job for which they got the money, about their responsibility, about the status of the contract with these companies, whether they can report to the competition again, whether they're sanctioned, whether they've returned the money they got, that's all the questions that should be in the report and how to deal with companies that don't do their job well again. Special entry into the eyes of the table on page 17 of the report which contains a review of the capacity of demining and realisation to privileged legal persons. The fourth column provides data on the days of work of pyrotechnicians and the days of work of machines and dogs. That way the pyrotechnics are even with machines and dogs. They would, in fact, be, in that way, completely offended as human beings. Although he is the only pyrotechnician who can do his job fully and fully, I think they should therefore be given due respect and not mixed with machines and dogs. I have no data on how many were engaged during 2017, no data on their status, material rights and other rights. All we know is that none of them, thank God, were wounded during last year or killed. For 40 companies listed in the same table, it is not known whether they are engaged in public procurement or as subcontractors, with what equipment they have, how many pyrotechnicians they employ. In particular, three companies such as those with the highest share in the activities they have been assigned, how much they are paid, whether failures have been established, or unquality work in these and other companies, we do not actually have that data. During last year, some weeks wrote about public procurement irregularities in CROMAC and suspicious actions in the assignment of demining operations to private companies. In the past years, he also pointed to a number of problems like this and a club of representatives in 2015, especially in discussions when adopting the Law on Mine Action. Then the provisions governing the rights of pyrotechnics are clearly criticised. The law divided the rights of pyrotechnicians through several laws and created legal uncertainty and life uncertainty for pyrotechnicians. These are problems marked by mine action and development and activities in Croatia, with a lack of financial resources. Only two years after the law was passed on this, now real and perceived problems, the director of CROMAC also spoke publicly. In 2017 she marked, she also marked problems with CROMAC management. The CROMAC last year was run by two directors, as I said. One V.D. Director, and the CROMAC Council was established in July 2017. Such a situation is not acceptable in an activity that is of national interest in the Republic of Croatia, which is extremely costing Croatia, and the continued presence of the danger of loss of human life is only becoming larger in a situation where there is no steering system that can guarantee the stability of the system. When it comes to mine action, we must not forget that it is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, that in this system, the most important and necessary professionals who must not be forced to risk their lives in order to ensure their employer's earnings and who must enjoy life stability, existential security. We must not forget the fact that Croatia has achieved and achieves top-notch results on the world stage through experience of mine action so far and that mine action must be developed in this direction and all of these shortcomings need to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83808	Thank you very much. This would now end in the name of the rapporteur, the respected Secretary of State, Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83809	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. Here, after a little less than 2 hours of debate, I would briefly underline what is most important and respond to several allegations because I think there were also persistent one-sided views of the problem of demining, as well as the misunderstandings of the basic postulates on which the Croatian demining system rests. For example, we had to decide just over 20 years ago whether we were going to demining through the pyrotechnics of the MUP and the MORH or whether we would define ourselves as a system where this problem is solved through companies on the market. The decision then is a long scale, but eventually it decided on this system that we have because we were counting on donations. We knew that with our own resources, we wouldn't be able to solve this big problem so quickly. We have defined ourselves on this system, for it are received and certain recognitions and international communities, but of course, like any system, it is not without fault, and in the implementation itself we can always and should be better and better quality. The definition of mine suspected space has also been questioned here. So those three words mean mine suspected space. And there were questions as to how the mine suspected space increased in the last year. So in such a way that certain areas for which there was no knowledge that they had been mined before, they were given a high-quality convincing knowledge that there might be mines in that space. This happens by saying, by returning people to certain areas that have some knowledge, and it would be really irresponsible and contrary to our law to go deaf in CROMAC about believing that in a particular area it is possible that there are mines and that they simply hear it and that someone in that area gets hurt. Yes, it is true that there are projects where no mines are found. There are also cases to find mines where mine records weren't supposed to be found. In 2017, I will repeat, mine suspected space was reduced by 336.5 km through 116 projects and a total of 1806 mine explosives or unexploded killings were found. It is true that 20 of these 116 projects did not find mine explosive or unexploded means of killing, and about a total of these projects occupied an area of 2.9 km square. But the kind of space that has therefore, all this time has been mine suspicion has now become safe, beneficial and will be on, will serve the community either for agricultural or other purposes. When we talk about what's demining. Projects are being carried out in cooperation with the local community, with what we have said, trade societies that master certain areas, Croatian forests, Croatian waters etc. It was, with some units of local or regional self-government, better co-operated, they were outsourced, they played an active role, and they had been demined before. I think one good example is Vukovar-Srijem County, which was demined in 2016, which was highly polluted with mines, but very good quality co-operation with that unit of local and regional self-government mines problem in that county has been solved. We know that there are large agricultural areas there and they are now, they are now able to be used according to purpose. By the way, it was mentioned that there was no injury. The main emphasis, of course, on the speed and efficiency of demining is that even during the mine problem, we have no casualties. I'll remind you, in 2016 there were 7 victims, all of them were workers in demining operations, 3 unfortunately killed, 4 injured more easily. Here, last year she was without a mortal and at all the victims, and we consider that a great achievement, and we will continue to work hard at that number, so that the number of victims so far doesn't increase by one person anymore. This year, it is planned to complete the demining of agricultural land. So, according to certain projects, it was necessary for people to live. Houses, gardens, means our settlements, then infrastructure facilities, then agricultural land, and now mostly the remaining areas that need to be demined is forest land and hard accessible land. As a result, there are fewer mine-explosive resources found, which is why projects are happening where they are not found, but they find a total of less than they were in last year compared to some of the previous years that the respected MPs spoke of here. But combining it mathematically is really impossible and I'm telling you very wrong. On these more difficult terrains available to mountain-mounted areas, in large part, it is now, of course, harder to use machines and some other methods, so it remains primarily the work of pyrotechnicians, the work of people. But the estimate is that we still have more than 36,000 mines to extract. If they were grouped in one place or on a small surface, if we knew where they were they would have been done in two months, but therefore it is estimated that this number of mines in the mine space of approximately 400 square kilometers will take a certain amount of time, and finally I will say how much according to government plans. It has been mentioned and certain, there are now no representatives of Bulja, working in the area of Sinja, so that it may not be left here,... some areas do not work, in the area of the Croatians is working, in the area of Lake Ljut. A total of these two projects are scheduled to demine 350,000 squares this year. Also incorrect are the calculations presented here by MP Ostojić of 13 years, so this is some of his mathematics, it is not true that he will drain European funds from 2020. This is one financial perspective, one financial envelope of the European Rural Development Fund, which has its own period of use since 2014-2020, followed by new envelopes, new funds that will be able to be used until the end of this job. And in the end... what happened a few months ago, the Republic of Croatia made a request in time for an extension of the deadline, based on insight into our capacities, so that's not a certain memory. I repeat, we have about 40 companies with about 700 trained employees, 600 pyrotechnics or about 100 demining assistants, 44 machines, 50 demining dogs and a surface area of 406 square kilometers at that time, and it is estimated that this job can be done in seven years and submitted a request for extension for the next seven years, starting from 1 March 2019, when the last ten-year deadline expires and ending on 1 March 2026 for when it is planned to deminise fully. This is a serious task, all the stakeholders in it participate in ministries, CROMACs must carefully carry out procedures, have quality control and it has been tightened with the latest amendments of the law, which may result in slightly less demining surfaces in this year because this control is now other than that control in progress, there is one final control, of course and control of the companies themselves doing the job. So the emphasis is on the fact that the space to confirm that it is demining and when it returns to the community that it can be sure that there is no suffering on it. This is our top priority, but of course one, as one MP said, an ambitious but realistic demining plan for Croatia's state space. I believe that in our intention and plan, you will give your pain through the election of the budget in the coming years, but through supervision and of course giving and proposing and pointing fingers if there are irregularities and shortcomings. Thank you very much for your discussion and for giving the coast to make this report better, better quality and with larger numbers of demining space in the coming years. Thank you very much. Academiace GELJEKO REINE
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83810	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83811	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected to the Director with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So you mentioned in your final presentation and mine suspected areas. We listen a lot today and surely it is very important to demining agricultural land and agricultural areas, but I would appeal to you not to forget our Dalmatia and our regions, since we all say that tourism is our most important economic branch, and you can imagine what it looks like when we read the title in the papers. They'll lead under the mines. It's mine suspected areas in which the tables are located. This opportunity would thank both CROMAC and the Ministry and all donors who helped demining in the town of Vodice over 73,000 square metres in 2017 alone. However, we still have about 66,000, you will say a little and certainly not that much, but I am not just saying now for Vodice all of us in the field of Dalmatia want to remove these tables as soon as possible to make our guests feel safer and, of course, propaganda is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83812	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, you have stressed everything important that you have seen in our debates, but I would like to point out what is very useful and important, and I would point out that other participants who can and also the ministries to participate in agreements such as that of 17 April 2018 when the Director of CROMAC signed an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture in which 67.8 million kuna from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry was intended for the demining of forest land and forests in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I would like to stress that this is a positive climate for which the cooperation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the potential of demining and all others, HEP, Croatian Waters, we have state institutions that could be involved in this and contribute as fast and quality demining as possible with the provision of sufficient resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83814	Here's a response from the respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83815	Dear Madam MPs, here is to inform you that the demining in the area of the town of Vodice is physically done but there is still internal procedure, so final control and when it is carried out, it will be possible to obtain confirmation that this area is safe for people to return and for all economic activities. Once again in the Name of the Government, I stress, therefore, that besides security, demining is important because of the economic activities you mentioned, there is not only agriculture, only forestry, but tourism, hunting, a series of other activities that are disabled if there are mine-explosive resources in a particular area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83816	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83817	Report on the implementation of the mine action plan and spent financial resources for 2017, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the mine action plan and the financial resources spent for 2017 is hereby adopted. Let's vote. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 45 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83818	Now we're going to move to the next point, that's: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Mr. Daniel Meštric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83819	Your Honor, Vice President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. You have before you a draft final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. The spatial data in a broader sense shall represent all data which may be directly or indirectly linked to the location. The problem is related to availability, quality, organisation, availability and sharing of spatial data, they are common in many areas and also in the system of state administration. Addressing these problems requires measures dealing with standardisation, sharing, sharing and using spatial data. The same or similar spatial data are often collected and maintained on several different addresses in state administration systems, it prevents their transparent use with a direct negative impact on the budget. The establishment and development of national spatial data infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. The law was passed in April 2013. The national spatial data infrastructure is defined as a set of technologies, measures, norms, implementing rules, services, human capacities and other factors that enable effective integration, management and maintenance of spatial data sharing to meet needs at national and European level, which will ultimately be an integral part of the European spatial data infrastructure i.e. We know the concept of inspiration. The objective of the national spatial data infrastructure is to make spatial data available to the public authority in a simple and understandable manner to all those using this data. The law introduces transparency and order in the jurisdiction of spatial data through general provisions that determine the application of the law, we call them entities... i.e. public authorities having jurisdiction or in part the maintenance and use of spatial data for other natural and legal persons meeting the requirements laid down by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law complies with Directive 2007/2EC of the European Parliament of 14 March 2007 on the establishment of infrastructures for European Community spatial information and will fully be transposed into Croatian legislation. The main issues covered by this proposal are the definition of the topic of spatial data, groups 1, 2, 3 are more precisely defined by the NIP, access to data sources for authorities whose jobs have an impact on the environment and further develop restrictions on access to spatial data through network services. The following shall be achieved as indicated above. Those definitions ensure the uniformity of interpretation at EU-wide level, define and elaborate the reasons for the restrictions on access and precisely distinguish registers of entities and registers of source of spatial NIPs as well as their content. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal for the law was explicitly and newly designed and there were no significant and substantial changes. Here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83820	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak to the respected representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83821	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the HDZ Representatives' Club will accept and support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. The law that we are amending today was passed in 2013 and then almost fully transposed the Inspire Directive of the European Parliament's 2007 reports, but there are still commitments that we are now implementing with these amendments and amendments to the laws. What may have to be said in the introduction, which is that in 2007, the Law on Geodetic Measurements, when real estate was introduced and largely implemented in Croatian legislation, is the same directive and then, by that law, the State Geodetic Authority is defined as a contact point for implementation, the implementation of this whole directive. What is important here, this is that already today, and already started in 2007, later completed by the 2013 Law itself, which then took over in a large part the provisions of the 2007 Law, it was implemented and, therefore, today with these amendments from the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, we would fully implement the inspired directive. Today, at the State Geodetic Authority, infrastructure is being managed... the data and precisely of 277 data processed which are in the jurisdiction of 39 different institutions which their spatial data are obliged to supply to the state Geodetic Authority itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At EU level, this directive, i.e. at the national contact point, provides records of 34 different topics, and we have introduced 35 topics in Croatia, and concerns spatial data on mine suspected areas. Just before this point, we also discussed a report concerning mine suspected areas in Croatia. So when we click on the geoportal we can see, look at all the cartographic, geodetic data on environmental protection, nature protection, so on spatial units, settlements, cities, municipalities, streets, squares, settlements, etc. so it is extremely good and quality that in one place in the Republic of Croatia it can be very simple to determine the complete infrastructure of spatial data. What I said was more about this when I first read the law, and in the meantime nothing important is in the law itself, or in the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law, so I would no longer be able to add anything significant to it, except that, even then, I asked that all state bodies, when the environmental reports are being drawn up, are obliged to submit these data to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, would be good if, in the future, these same state bodies, when data are collected, for example, environmental protection, nature protection, that, in parallel with government institutions and the same data, were provided to the Ministry of State Geodesy, in order to ensure that this complete record and updated. Here's what I have to say, just to say that we at the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83822	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83823	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, Director of the State Geodesy Administration with an associate. We have before us an amendment to the Law on national spatial data infrastructure in another reading or called the NIP. It's one law that we at GLAS and HSU supported in our first reading, and we'll support it in our second reading. There are a number of technical laws that come into this House, a series of laws that are better, and so is this improvement, so spatial data is defined in three groups and is aligned with the directive. This is about a very correct law, a law that has been passed and has already had several amendments and it of course opens up the essential subject, and that is let's apply it, let's use it. So the State Geodetic Authority is a key point which is a reference point for spatial data, let's use that spatial data, let's find them to be available to everyone. When someone says spatial data, then it's everyone who thinks it's the data that speaks exclusively of use, purpose, space and everything else. That's all your data, that's how much and where children are born, data on how much energy they use, data on how much water supply is solved, how much disposal is solved, so that's all the data that can then be used and should be used to amend other laws, we of course use them and serve in the spatial planning process, but they also use for something else. Let's say one very interesting data that most of us certainly didn't know about, is that in the city of Zagreb there's 11,000 households on the septic cave, it's about 33,000 citizens of the city of Zagreb, they don't have sewerage and they're still solving their draining problem through septic caves without desire, it's like you have a town the size of Daruvar or a town the size of Koprivnica complete on septic caves, it's spatial data, it's something to deal with, it's something you need to know about the development of the city, it's something you need to know when you're predicting a certain network somewhere, when you're predicting some kind of improvement. So we are absolutely prone and whenever the topic is something this politically interesting, then there are heated discussions from this pay phone. This is about one thing I would really tell the technical law, it's about something important for Croatia, it's about something that Croatia positions on the map of Europe as a country that collects that data, but it's not about just collecting that data, you put it in a drawer, whether it's a drawer of a table or a drawer in a computer is a niche relationship, but it's about to be processed, that data should be used, it's data that you use and when you do laws, when you do sublegal acts, when you're doing planning. So it's a very important segment. Here, my colleague Bacic and I, as former ministers in the same ministry, have discussed on behalf of the clubs and the clubs will vote for the simple reason we really need one law. These are the lessons of this Law and what is important, so it is important to follow the directives, but what needs to be clearly said from this speaker should be encouraged units of local self-government, units of regional self-government, ministries, public institutions, utility companies, collect data, put on, network so that we can all deal with them properly. Of course, we will support this amendment to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83824	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83825	The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure, second reading, P.Z.E. No 279, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 121 for, 5 abstentions and 1 vote, are against the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on national spatial data infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83826	The following law, the following actually point is: - Report on the collected lists of archive material referred to in Article 21 and paragraph 1. The law on archive materials and archives. The holder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 14. Law amending and supplementing the law on archive materials and archives. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Ivica Poljičak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83827	Honorable Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will really sum up a few basic elements that are important in relation to this comprehensive report and which point to what is important that can possibly be discussed today. Perhaps this report, in some ways, will be improved and all in the atmosphere of the adoption of a new Law on Archive materials and archives, which I assume will be found very quickly as a second reading in both the Government and here among you in the Croatian Parliament. Why's the report? Because it was an obligation arising from the amendment and addition of the Law on Archival Materials which were also here and which were accepted as such because one of the fundamental objectives of these amendments and the addition of the Law was to make available archival material, particularly from 1945 to 22 December 1990. And then it didn't have any more precise information about exactly what the material was about and the quantities of archive material. Therefore, here, you have decided, it is concluded, that within 6 months, the process of collecting the list, and that the Government should submit a report to the Croatian Parliament within a year. That's what's done. This report went through all the planned procedure, it was in the government, it was also on the parent committee that unanimously without debate and accepted it. I'd like to say here, I assume you've been through just the report. The report is structured so that all of the 18 competent archives are included in it, so that it can be followed precisely to whom everything is referred in a way that as the current holder delivers lists. It is also here in these tables which are listed who supplied everything and what period for the individual archive funds the archive material is concerned with. It is very important to point out because of you, but also because of the general Croatian public that these lists, which are now established, are not only available in this report, but that in every competent state archive, starting with the Croatian State Archives, and ultimately with the state archive in Zagreb, speaking alphabetically they are available on the website of the competent archive. What does that mean? That each of the interested users, whether it's a scientist or someone else who goes to a web site with a click of a mouse, gets an insight into all the recorded material. This is a step that allows each of these users who is interested in one of the relevant or some of the archival funds to go to the current owner and ask for physical insight into the funds in order to further explore. I would also point out that we have one measure to be picturesque, that we can visualize that from the list of all this archive material that was requested, that one great effort has been made with this relationship, and I want to thank everyone who contributed to this quality report, that it's a order of 37,000 240 long meters. It's an opportunity to compare it to the archive material that is now in the relevant state archives, it's about 20%. Furthermore, here you can see exactly which competent archive is the number of the number. So it's not for all the same. Most of these lists refer to the state archive in Zagreb, and then to the Croatian state archive, the state archive in Osijek, Split and so on, and at least in the state archive in Gospić and that is 25 long meters. So now the lists are established. We know exactly what archive material this is, and now we want to point out another important thing within this report, that we've linked it to several other important parameters. One is the part relating to the spatial capacities of the competent national archives and others relating to human capacities, so as can be seen in the report, one part of the archive can take over within the proposed legal deadline for the next 6 months, the specified material, which 5 are concerned, and the remaining 13 are currently not able to do so. You can also see from indicators relating to the number of employees that already there is a chronic deficit, a deficit of employees who should work on processing archive funds, and we have also warned in this report about the part of the inequality of the list that has arrived which was the obligation of the present holders, so we have a situation where it is extremely quality processed, and there is a situation where additional work is needed. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that these 37 240 long meters, as it has now been found, is essentially only one part of the total archive material outside the archives, and the assessment is, it was done by each competent archive, that such archive material is somewhere around 177,000 long meters, including these 37,000 long meters. Based on all these insights, and again, I stress that they are now available to the general public, all interested who can go to the competent institutions for study and research and insight into this archive material, that as logically, the conclusion found in the proposal for a new law on archival material and archives which is adopted here in the first reading is made by the logical conclusion that a national plan for the development of archival activity is needed, in order to make this part of analogue physical archival material a good plan for its transfer to competent national archives, but to try to obtain quality solutions for both this part of storage capacity and to strengthen human potential in the archives themselves, as a national plan for the development of archival activity will also require a focus on the archive material that is originally created in digital form and that it should be pursued through this new digital archive because it is a matter of future and archive activity. Here are the basic elements that in this summary form we want just to point out here, of course I'm at my disposal for all possible issues. We would like to point out, perhaps, that these lists are available on the web pages, that we have made them possible for further research and further use, and that this is in high agreement with this point of availability of a new whole law where we want to make the archive material available from its creation, regardless of the fact where it is currently located, whether it is in the competent state archive or with the creator or owner. It is important that it is available, of course in accordance with the law and all other regulations. I think I've highlighted all the key elements that are important for a quality debate about this report. Thank you for your attention, and I'm here for the answers to all the questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83828	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative of Nikola Grmoy will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83829	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Secretary of State, Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, I would like to express on behalf of the club of the Independent Lists and in my personal name the satisfaction that the report we are discussing today has arrived at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. More important, it was done in time and in accordance with the legal deadlines. This, however, gives little hope that this can be seen as an indication of how and in the field of archival activity we are slowly moving towards the legality and transparency of work. Only the report, as the report states, is the result of the provision of Article 14 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Archive Papers and Archives or of what we all call the Most Law on Archives. I would remind you that the same provision in Article 14(2) of that law requires that the same lists be submitted to the Croatian State's Attorney General. When we proposed such a solution, we had two important circumstances in mind. First, at the moment of law-making, it was completely unknown where there is a large part of the archive material from the time period until 1990. Second, because of the frequency of rumors that a large part of this material has been destroyed, it is important that information on what still exists and where it is obtained for the archive material of three important factors. The archival system through state archives of various levels as a specialized public service, one of the important tasks of protecting archival material. In this case, public archive material shall be authorised and responsible for protecting the property of the Republic of Croatia, as well as for the prosecution of perpetrators of damage to the property. And the widest professional scientific and general public to which this material is of its own nature and intended. Lists of archives listed in this report, as well as detailed lists on the pages of the Croatian State Archives, say that the goal has been achieved in relation to the public. In relation to state archives and in particular the Croatian State Attorney's Office, there remains to be a detailed review of each other's lists and draw conclusions which are still missing and which should be on the lists, which is not. Afterwards, it is not difficult to conclude that detailed research is needed to determine where there is what is not reported, that it is owned by one of the legal followers of the bodies listed in Art. 21st, st.1. The law. Whether any of it was destroyed or alienated, who destroyed or alienated what was missing, and what was, how and when it was destroyed or alienated. Therefore, there is still a need to do what is regular work and state archives and state's attorney's office. I hope that the public and that information will be obtained within a reasonable period of time and that the laws and other regulations will be properly applied on that plan. When I say I hope, I am obliged to say that unfortunately this report is the only implementation activity of the Ministry of Culture and the Croatian State Archives made in time and in accordance with the legal provisions. When I say that, I'm obliged to point out a few facts. To this day, the Ministry of Culture has not passed the necessary sublaws, whose adoption was imposed upon it by law itself. It is primarily about the Regulation on the use of archive material and the Rules on Records in archives. It is also further in all state archives in the application of the famous 2011 price list of state archive services with additions made by 2015, which was completely illegally adopted and which in its essential parts is contrary to the Law and should not be applied at all. Here we can also remind ourselves of the affairs closely related to this price list with famous passes through which money from the state budget was unnecessarily and illegally poured into private pockets. And that part of the price list is still in effect. You can see it on the pages of the Croatian State Archives. Right here in the absence of sublegal acts and persistent application of something that should never have been applied, we come up with what is problematic in the report itself. In fact, the whole report comes from the fact that the purpose of the report is to show that the law adopted in May last year is not applicable and that it needs to be put out of force without further compliance with the obligations and requirements laid down by law itself, the sooner the better. Obviously, this is also what the report states that there is no space in the archives, that there are not enough people and that this cannot be resolved in due time. That part of the story, especially the conclusion offered by the report, has been completely missed. I quote: After the Croatian Parliament discusses this report, the Ministry of Culture will propose the contents of the final proposal of the new Law on Archive materials and archives to be referred to the procedure, which will refer to the procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and then to the Croatian Parliament for a second reading. It's a finished quote. Dear Secretary of State with your associates, be kind enough to answer a few questions. What is the causal link between this report and the Law that the Ministry of Culture will refer to the Government after discussing this report? Why, after the debate, what does this debate have to do with the new law? The only link I see here is that the Ministry of Culture does not want and will not apply the legal regulations that have been passed in this House and which are in force. The Ministry of Culture failed to fulfil its obligations under the Law of May 2017. The Ministry of Culture here is now openly saying that it does not want and will not allow state archives to fulfil the obligations set out in Part Two of Article 14 of that Law which requires them to take over the recorded material by 20 November 2018. You simply reject it, as you systematically refuse to fulfil your other obligations under this Law. Now you are asking us to also help you with this Croatian Parliament by passing a new law. Is that from that famous saying that was made right in the historical period that it is, that the law should not be held as a drunken vessel? Or by the other one, we brought it, we can change it whenever we want. Instead, you offer a solution by which the material would remain where it was found and send users to look for it. Instead of one central and 17 regional addresses of the state archives, you offer users another who knows how many addresses to type on. You're offering them a game of hide-and-seek. I'm afraid you misunderstood something. Archive users want and want to explore materials, not play hide-and-seek and guess where the material might be. By the logic of what you're proposing, let's go be honest and say we don't need archives. To each creator and his successor, we return the material that he has already handed over to the state archive and let every state body keep what it has. Send the archivists to the Employment Office, and the buildings of the state archives will already be used for something else. I know you'll answer what you already wrote in your report. Namely, there's no space, no personnel, no money. So I ask you right now, why is there no room? Why aren't there any shots? Why isn't there any money? The Honorable Secretary of State, the law under which you submit this report, came into force exactly a year ago. Meanwhile, a state budget for 2018 has been adopted, and guidelines for the state budget for the next three years have also been adopted. With this in mind, I would kindly ask you to tell the public here in the Croatian Parliament how much money you planned in this financial year for the admission of listed material from the State Archives to the legal deadline or if you did not plan this year, how much did you plan in the coming years? How many people of archivists and archival technicians that the entire system is supposed to cry out so that they can start working tomorrow? What are you going to do with these archivists, archival technicians after they do this one-time job of downloading the archive material to be done by November 2018? How many state-owned properties have you agreed with your fellow state-owned minister for the purpose of expanding archival capacity? When I say money, people and real estate, I don't mean any national plans to develop archival activities that the government is supposed to pass after the new law is passed. And otherwise, that idea with some national plan doesn't make much sense except it sends a message, which we can and when we want to, and we won't. Maybe you can, but not as much as you want. As my colleague Bulj says, no one's got a gorilla till dawn, so neither will yours. So I repeat once again what is said many times in this House, we ask you to stop rubbing our eyes with the alleged problems you have, so you are on duty to solve problems, and don't pretend that a little mess on paper will solve the problem. The Ministry of Culture, as no other, serves to create new problems, but to solve the problems we have. I'll warn you from this pay phone to another dimension of this whole story. It's just amazing how many unwise statements and documents on the subject of the archive have recently arrived from the Ministry of Culture. On the one hand, you keep saying that you support the full opening of the archives, and on the other hand by statements and by concrete action and by not doing so you show that this is not the case. Is it really not enough that we have recently experienced that a message from a neighbouring country is being sent through high-priced tabloids that they will not hand over the archival material that belongs to us under the Agreement on the Sucession of the former Yugoslavia because we, the Republic of Croatia, could conceal it and make it inaccessible? They say so that the Croats were and the rest of the Ustashas would not be seen. Do we really need to give any individuals an argument now that they don't hand over the material that belongs to us because we don't have the space, the people and the money, and even the material that's in the country we refuse to take over into the archives, and then we'll be horrified when they put it on our noses in their own well-intentioned and well-neighbored way? Will we be surprised and offended again? Instead, and those who are so mean, once and for all, we shut our mouths and send a message that we are not afraid of anything, and that we have nothing to fear, and at least of them, we send a message that these old papers are only a distraction and we are looking for ways not to deal with them, but to leave them in any basements to rot there and not to bother. I repeat, we are already tired of trumpeting that there is nothing in those papers that is not part of our collective memory, of our history and that it is time to face that history and go on. to face everything in that history without distinction and who killed, and who put himself in prisons, and why, and who was the elite, and who was discriminated against and who was stealing. But also who was a man with a capital letter C and at times when it wasn't easy to be, by name and last name, to protect personal data despite. And nothing bad will happen to us like nothing bad happened when we opened the archives a year ago and allowed people to come into the archives and read, copy, debate. Dear Secretary of State, it is time to ask ourselves, in this country, if he knows what the right hand is doing and whether we have the concentration and memory of the rainworm. Perhaps the diplomacy of us from the Most Club and my personal and not at some level, we may be quite unadjusted and uninvited, but it is really time for someone at the Ministry of Culture to start thinking about archives and archivists in a way that is not an abandoned playground that only bothers in the lofty garden of an elite culture and finally accepts work, but with some sense and a view of at least two steps ahead. So to conclude, I would like to thank the report submitted and the owners of the archives and the State Archives and the Ministry of Culture and the Government in the section containing data on the material from the period to the 1990s. In all other reports, not only is it not acceptable, but I consider it precisely scandalous, even in Croatia unmarked for the same party to pass a law, and then not only pretends that it has never passed it but also openly and publicly declares that the same law does not want and will not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83830	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. On behalf of the Klub representative of the HDZ, a respected colleague, Prof. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A year ago, the Croatian Parliament passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Archive materials and archives, and according to that law, today we have a report on the collected lists of archives referred to in Article 21a(1). The law on archive materials and archives. What's crucial in this report is that we're faced with fundamental facts about archives and archival structure, but this is what we hear from it from when the Hegels warned that the facts don't agree with his theory, then Hegel answered the team up by the facts. But the facts are inexorable. And they are not a matter of subjective or voluntary interpretations, but of facing them and of finding the best solution to achieve not some particular interests but interests of well-being and of Croatia and the overall task of the archives they have to carry out. What's said here is that it needs to be repeated again clearly that it is outside the jurisdiction of the archives on this basis that we are discussing today, over 37,000 long meters of archive material, that it is therefore required at least 5500 square meters to be stored. Of the 18 archives only 4 archives can download the material because they have the necessary space and 13 archives simply are unable to download this material. I think that's what the report says, so this isn't the time to repeat it. What we really need to emphasize is that today in the archives we have about 114, over 114,000 square meters of archival buildings stored and outside the archives we have 1.5 times more buildings and it didn't come from today, from yesterday or 20 years ago than much longer. Thus, it is a reality that we need to face. This percentage of this new building that we're talking about today or that we're reporting is only 21% of this building that is located outside the archives or if you want another statistic, only 40% of the archived archive structure is stored in the archives and 60% is outside the archives. Therefore, the fact that we need more than 32,000 square meters in order for the archives to function is simply the fact that we need to keep an eye on and that we need to solve in order to have archives arranged the way it should be. That even 20% of the lack of experts in this area, I think that's a fact we can't ignore. The question is how to solve this in order to get to one system solution, that is what we need to welcome and that is the national plan for the development of archival activity because we need to be aware of each other's facts. The paper race, to put it simply, is lost. Progressive demands and space and archivists in the future also cannot survive because we will come that at some point we will need not so many but a large number of people proportional to that work that produces this archival structure. Therefore, we must turn to new technologies and new solutions. I agree that with the problem of going through all these instances and addresses where this archive material is stored, it is not even the solution that we have to go to 18 archives to get to this material, but it is a solution to digitize all these structures, and I am not only thinking about certain segments of that archive material for which some users are interested, but for most of these archives, and in this way that this structure is available to all interested and all users. The solutions offered worldwide are such that some countries have already passed the law, i.e. provisions that in the 20s, for the next 5 to 10 years, will no longer receive papers as archive material at all. In this case, the needs for space are quite different and the processing of this material is done at the time when it occurs, the role of archivists in due course will be quite different and, in this sense, this national plan for the development of archival activity should be developed so as to find solutions that will satisfy our frustrations on the one hand and, on the other hand, create real programmes for the development of archival activity. Therefore, the key is to digitise this archival building, the entire archival structure, and not just some of its segments. The clear thing about this is that in this sense, we have a particular interest in certain structures in order to make all of these dubiosiss, all of these frustrations, all of these conflicts that are happening today in the public space and that we are witnessing, to get rid of them as soon as possible. However, what I think is missing or will be missing if we just adopt an archival building plan, these are the other two essential components which in today's official policy seem to be missing and that is that and that are being systematically funded projects at national level that process topics in a scientific and objective way, and these issues particularly from modern history, to get an objective display and to invest enough energy and knowledge to process these topics. However, it is only one step, because the next step is to have systematic planning and funding of these results, these research, not only in Croatian, but also in foreign languages, so that we can make it available to the foreign public, political, scientific, professional, to learn about topics from Croatia and Croatia, but also about those topics that want to discredit us or our neighbours or individual political options, which simply falsify the modern Croatian history and history of the Homeland War. Therefore, these seem to me to be the components of this policy which the problem of archival building is simply putting on the agenda, to make sure that, on the basis of this archival building, not only does it collect, not only record, but that it is the basis of scientific research, but also the presentations of these research and their use, i.e., of getting to know the highest public, so that we can speak in the best possible way, also of our modern history, modern history and present. So, this step, what is done, with this report, is one report that should be done according to legal obligations, but it shows that we need far more complex procedures, far more investment and far more, if you want and prudence, to come, so that we can use all these results, data and documents that are in the archives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83832	I thank Professor Tudjman for this debate. Next debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83833	... the extent of the debate. [[Specially enabled.]] The parliamentary debate in this government's report on the unlisted or forgotten, in essence, just the continuation of the recent parliamentary debate on the proposal for a new archival law, which formally arrived from the respected Minister Obuljen Koržinek, which has actually arrived... what I have called and what I can further and on the basis of this report again and again call an invisible anti-lustration legal angle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this Parliament, through a political, transgender government, Plenković, Vrdoljak, Pupovac, Zauha and the group, the anti-distration cotter sent a cleverly designed legislative proposal with one single goal, the repeated closure of the archives, which are entirely cornered. Unambiguously open to the effect of amending the archival law, adopted in this House a year ago, then with votes and HDZ. So a total of 94 votes for and only 3 abstentions. In that discussion, right? Incompetent participants on availability, more specifically the inaccessibility of materials in the Croatian State Archives and the regional state archives, missed the key problem, the availability of fate, not the material contained in the archives, but the one still outside the archives. That is why, in the context of the debate on this report, it should be further stressed that, without a doubt, the most important provision, still valid law, whose liquidation is yet to be expected, is the transitional provisions contained in Article. 14. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Archival Materials and Archives, which prescribe duty, all, therefore, all without exception, which keep public archive material generated by December 22, 1990, listing and handing over to state archives. Although it is generally known that one part of that archive material from 1945-1990 destroyed or alienated public should know that outside the archives in the state property there is still a large part of the archive material, which is not listed or submitted to the archives. Namely, it is entirely unnecessary to discuss and comment on the availability of public archive material, if the material is not written, processed and submitted to the archives. These transitional provisions of the existing law, which the Ministry of Culture prepares to execute, in addition to the obligation to make a list of available public archives outside archives, creators, holders of this material, prescribes the obligation to surrender to the same competent state archive within 1 year and, as already affected by a hypocritical alibi, the fact that state archives do not have the spatial capacity of most of the Maki Konzum, to receive materials, including because the Government and the Ministry of Culture have done nothing in the past year, nor will make these spatial capacities secure. The archival legislative proposal, which unfortunately passed the first reading in this House, has just annulled the main intention of the existing law, which is the surrender and availability of that public archive material, which is still in the archives. In what way? First, by shortening the period of absolute availability from 22 December 1990 to 30 May 1990, which automatically becomes an inaccessible part of public archive material relating to a critical period, when Croatia is formally still in place as part of the SFRY, the Constitution of the SFRY and the SRH are still in force, and during that period, as is known to be the case for the handover of the authorities and the start of the dual transition of the established structures in the repressive intelligence apparatus, but also for other forms of real social power. Take a look at this barren list from the report you will see the terms Croatian National Bank, so the construction of the archive, Zagrebačka banka, Privredna banka, FINA and the like. Secondly, the new archival law, as we have said against the lustration cowardly egg, whose adoption awaits us, is nowhere to mention the existing, even though the legal obligation to hand over archives of public archival material created by December 22, 1990, which is located outside the archives. Only from the transitional provision of Article 53 may it be concluded that the deadline for the submission of the material to the State archives extends to at least 11 years from the entry into force of the new law. More specifically, the term shall be used for at least 11 years because the 10-year deadline for surrender is running since the adoption of the rules, which will not be adopted. So this report that is now in front of us is an attempt to play the legal obligation that will soon be annulled anyway, more precisely this report that underestimates common sense, only serves to paraphrasise Starčević, to obsess over simplicity. I will remain only at the collection of the list of creators, holders of the archive material referred to in Article 21a in the jurisdiction of the Croatian State Archives. What do we got here? Instead of the complete lists of archive buildings from 1940 to December 1990, which are located outside the archives, we have obtained loose fragments from which it is not possible to identify whether the total material contained outside the archives in a particular state, particularly administrative, judicial or judicial bodies or only carefully selected and irrelevant parts which are listed only to formally satisfy the legal obligation to its recent and desirable annulment in the form of a new archival law. In the report, there is no record of whether all the bodies or holders to whom the legal obligation was sent lists or not, since we only have those holders who delivered the list listed, there is a miracle there is SDP, although the gentlemen until yesterday claimed that they had nothing but those who were invited but did not do so. The report further states that, in order to gain insight into the state of the materials and control of the data provided, the competent department of the Croatian State Archives carried out surveillance checks with 10 of the 26 mentioned holders. What about the others? Should we take our word for what is written in the lists and who guarantees that these lists are truly complete? It's just for illustration. After 28 years, we learned that the Ministry of the Interior still has an archival structure from the communist and, of course, half-year of the first transition period that has not been handed over to the Croatian State Archives and has been made available to the public, especially historians of researchers. If it is to trust the bizarre list provided to the Croatian State Archives, more archivals seem to be found at Sunday's antique fair in the British square of Zagreb than in the interior ministry's writing cellars. The delivery of a list of raw materials from the Ministry of the Interior from May 1945 to May 30, 1090 and from May 30 to December 22, 1990, looks like this, so this is a list which, as you said, the State's Attorney's Office should be studied, I'm sure they will need years to study this content list of buildings in the Ministry of the Interior. For example, the material called Public Order and Peace from 1980 to 1990 has various information on persons, so the amount of material in the list is no less than 2 metres, so as less than I do to Mr Shucker, for the unlisted, it is only 20 archive boxes right now, there are more paper material in the paper below the MPs in this assembly, than it is reportedly in the letter of the Ministry of the Interior. So let's not be ridiculous. So my question to Mr Bozinovic, can you guarantee your honor that the archives of the Ministry of the Interior are such unrepentant material whose list has been delivered in this funny form? And what is crucial for the crucial importance of the availability of archival material to deal with the consequences of the Yugoslav communist rule and the action of the repressive state-run party apparatus. Why is there no list in this report of the remaining undisclosed material of the Yugoslav Communist State Security Service, Colloquial UDBA? ... which is the central intelligence agency SOA, which is part of a succession lectured to the Croatian State Archives, concluded with 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the legal obligation to hand over the census is therefore included in the period so-called Handovers and transitions until December '90. It's definitely about today's SOA, so I'm asking the answer to that simple question. Does the law apply or not apply? Finally, what does not accept this report is a matter of honor to this Croatian Parliament is an illegal illegal act of no less or more of the Ministry of Culture which is responsible for the implementation of this Act which directly referred the order to state archives by means of instructions to the creators and holders of the material on the legal obligation to produce that same list of the same material. One of these holders of the material in question whose lists were to be submitted to the archive under the existing Law and it was just published by the Ministry of Culture which, although competent for the implementation of the archival law without precedent in me known parliamentary practice, deafened its own law, and refused to submit a list of archival material in its possession to the State archives contrary to the legal obligation. The public is less known that as part of the Ministry of Culture, there is a central archive in the area of cultural heritage that contains both secret and sealed archival documents from various state bodies and institutions that have been illegally available to the public for 28 years, and that is the discretionary decisions of different ministers and ministers acting as guardians of Yugoslav state secrets, with only one ministerial exception from 2016, and since these funds contain unknown and unreachable material about the fate of the communists in '45. have been taken over by previously seized cultural movements, for example the Jews since 1941-1945, whether robbed and seized by the people's enemies after so-called "the Jews". the release and the same 1945 which should be subject to the return or compensation under the Law on the return of the seized property. As Minister, I took advantage of my right and read with interest hundreds of documents of approaches that were denied to me as a historian about what happened, for example, with pictures, family libraries and various cultural movements found in abandoned and confiscated apartments and houses of refugees or executed people's enemies after '45. I was very interested in reading documentary works and art lists in the center of Zagreb in which they moved in, for example, specifically KNOJ officers, later prominent philosophers, practitioners, heads of the Zagreb Philosopher's departments, and even the rector, enjoying the fruits of artistic war prey, which sometimes had to hand over only a small part to museums, mostly kept in family ownership by building the status of the newly created urban and academic elites, retaining more racial social power and cultural hegemony. Instead of opening this material without restriction to the public, we are witnessing today that the Ministry of Culture and Ministers broke their own law by denying the archives of the public, delivering a list of materials on the history and patterns of Yugoslav communist robbery, cultural movements located on Runjaninov Street No. 2. I will end up with a paraphrasing of an anthological issues, where the money of one of the bards is the greats and champions of modern Croatian parliamentary left-wing political thoughts. Madam Minister, where is the list of sealed archive material from Art. 21a, 1st century. The law on archive materials and archives owned by the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83834	I thank my esteemed colleague Hasanbegovic for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83835	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. This report is interesting anyway. The SDP club is particularly interested in the part where it is concerned. As far as the Social Democratic Party of Croatia is concerned. It is explicitly listed here as the body that supplied the lists to the state archives, which delivered its structure. And indeed, in 1990, a commission was formed in the SDP at the request of SDP President Ivica Racan. In that commission were the party's political secretary, Mr. Dusan Plećas, was Dusan Bilandzic, Mrs. Zorica Stipetic, and the commission handed over to the state archive the entire total of the SDP. So it's on the web, that's the file, that archive took one whole floor in the former cube where the SDP was stationed. So that's a couple hundred meters on three or four shelves. The Commission did not, it was in boxes, the commission did not even review those boxes, but agreed with the state archive to download it. The Croatian National Archives website also says they took over the documents mentioned in 1995. An agreement under which the SDP, in accordance with the law on archives that was then in force, must also be agreed upon to grant access to the dedicated archive. So, this is the material that was created until 1977 and it is available for use other than the documentation unit which the SDP explicitly stated in the report on the transfer, and it is about the personal documents of members of the Communist alliance. There is nothing particularly interesting about Mr. Plečas' testimony, so this is basic data, it is one chart with a short biography and a request for admission to the Communist alliance and an evaluation of the basic organisation of whether the candidate is fit to receive it in the SKH or not. These charts were later not supplemented, they were not re-recorded, so there were no possible remarks about any party tightness or anything else. Therefore, there are no secrets about the SDP because we often hear, and here is what counterpart Hasanbegovic has insinuated that there are some... buildings. There is no paper in the SDP, all of it is submitted to the State Archives and all of it is seen and used by scientists who are interested in the topic. Why you need special permission to access these ID cards, that's very logical. Namely, 1989. The SKH had 298,000 members, and a year later that number fell to 46,000. Now from the end of 1989 to March 1990. 27,000 SDP members went to HDZ, and by the end of that year, 70,000 more so that we can conclude that there are 50.000 left in the SDP of the former 298,000 members, while the HDZ assumes 97,000. So if we're going to talk about the heirs of the SKH, then it's more accurate that we're saying that HDZ is the real heir to the Communist Union because... it's taken over 97,000 former members, and there are 50,000 left in the SDP. There are also those like me who have never been in the Union of Communists who have joined the SDP but been reformed. Now, what can all be found in the archives? It can be found, for example. Now that we're talking about it, some statistical data is that, for example, '91. that the SRH had 4 million 784 thousand 265 inhabitants and the Republic of 2014 4 million 284,889, that total SRH debt was $4 billion, and this RH 57 billion. It brought democracy that brought HDZ so much debt increase. It can also be found in the archives of the Croatian Institute of Statistics and there that the average pension was in the SRH 75.3% salary, and in this present Croatia it is 39% salary. This was done by these 97,000 members of the SKH who went to HDZ, that's their credit, that's their work. The number of police or 9,000 militias in the SRH and 20,000 in the current state, that's how much we pay the cops. That 9,000 was enough to maintain order. The number of newborns in SRH 55,409 and now 39,000, meaning in this dark regime communists lived according to these statistics, by these figures lived in this darkness and children were born in this darkness much more than when we turned the light on. Now that there are still archives missing about which there is a lot of talk, these are archives of former intelligence service associates or UDBAs to make it more clear why they're not here. What the UDBA agents were doing in '89. A year? So they had information that Yugoslavia would fall apart, that the Berlin Wall would fall and that there would be a new world order, so they did not wait for the new authorities to come for them. They offered themselves to the new authorities for co-operation and the new authorities accepted them, they helped them, these people helped them win power as much as they could. That's why HDZ, I suppose, and what you remember about Perkovic and Mustac insisted on handing them over to another country as soon as possible. I don't know about any country that holds onto itself, and that's handing over to another state of its intelligence, I don't know. Such a stupid country or a country that keeps to itself a little bit, I don't know. It's the only Croatia of its intelligence. But why? Well, because Perkovic and Mustac both had a lot of information about who in the HDZ ranks co-operated with UDBA. And it's not one colleague, I believe it's a colleague a lot, that it's one whole college that's been working. That's why they had to go to an Austrian prison because it counts that they will still be able to communicate less with the public and less expose these to some people potentially very, very uncomfortable data. Now, what other archival structure should be made up and preserved? An artist, Siniša Labrovic, performed an interesting experiment the other day, collected signatures for the protection of pedophile priests at Tomislav Square in Zagreb. And he collected 60 signatures in an hour. According to his testimony came parents with small children, with little children to sign his initiative, it's a referendum initiative, of course it's a performance, he didn't do it because he would send it or collect enough signatures for a referendum issue, but the question was so addressed. Are you in favour of the fact that the priests of the pedophiles cannot answer in any way in any way in any court? And people came and signed it. In such a country, I think it would be good to make up an archive, one piece of information about who these priests are pedophile and how many there are. Not because of these parents who came to sign this, but because of the normal ones. Because of the normal ones so they can save their children. So that kind of archival material would be necessary. And then, look, the archives of events from the Homeland War. I'm sick of talking and hearing about it, lying and not lying about President Tudjman banning children from Vukovar. I want the archives to open up and see his correspondence with the city's defence command then and whether that's true or not. Because I don't like the way that the Croatian president is so muddy because I want to know if it's true that Sušak, later the defence minister, shot with some other people around Borov Sel, trying to speed up, inciting war events. In that war where he and his family will become enormously rich, enormously. Let's just say that I'd like those archives to open up and that if that's not true, that a man doesn't slander himself, but if it's true, then we know what's true. And it would mean that in this new version of the law, we also commit these data holders, to deliver it to the State Archives so that scientists today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in 10 years, in 20 years, could write objective history based on facts rather than on speculation. I'm curious here, Mr. Hasanbegovic says after so-called. Liberation '45. Sir, it's for him so-called. Liberation. I was reminded by Mrs. Merkel, who two years ago went to celebrate victory over fascism in Moscow, and there she said she would never be able to thank the Russian people enough for having him in '45. Mr. Freed From Naziism. That's what the German said in half of Moscow. Eh, when I hear from Mr. Hasanbegovic or anyone else, he was on the HDZ list, but anyone from HDZ said he would never be grateful enough to Tito's partisans for liberating Croatia from the constitution. And instead of that we have, I'd like to hear it, I'd like to hear it, I'd know that then I live in a relatively normal country, but so far, I haven't heard from anyone since I was 90. Instead, we have streets and squares that bear the name of the authors of the race laws of Mile Budak, which is why we are proud, and the representative in the Croatian Parliament is talking about rites or so on. The release of the country in '45. A year. So I hope that our next report will be completed with what the SDP Club is proposing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83836	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m. when we get back to work. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83837	Good day, everyone, if we keep this up, I'll give my word to myself, I'll speak and then I'll replicate and give myself the wrong quote because there's three and a half of us, not one in the diplomatic gallery. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15 HOURS]] So the next pay phone is like an individual debate is Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83838	Here he is, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, my respect for the representatives of the proposer, State Secretary Dr. Poljičko with an associate. As it is before this break a lot on this report, and we are talking about today continuing on the subject of the report on the collected lists of archives referred to in Article 21. A point 1. The law on archive materials and archives. So a lot of this has been said so far from different perspectives, and I'm going to use my 10 minutes somehow, try to recapitulate all of that again and put an emphasis on some of the key facts that actually point to the fact that the state that comes out of this report when it comes to storage archive construction. So what is seen from the report is the fact that up until now only about 40% of the registered building is stored somewhere in the archives, which is by some means, if you go to look deeper into these figures and calculate, somewhere about one and a half times the total building that exists, which means that somewhere around 60% of our archive structure is not in the archives, but is located somewhere outside the archives, where archives have shown the need for a new space of approximately 32,000 square meters. So the reasons why we have a piece of this material outside all of this space, so it lies between the rest and the fact that our current buildings, buildings, so the archives cry out for space where the archival structure would be kept, is one of the problems. Equally, we have the fact that the recorded archive material can now download 5 state archives, these are archives in Karlovac, Sisak, Sibenik, Vukovar and Zagreb, while due to the lack of storage space, the archive material is currently not able to download a total of 13 archives with the Croatian State Archives, which are archives in Bjelovar, Dubrovnik, Gospić, Osijek, Pazin, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Split, Varazdin, my Virovitica, in Zadar and the state archive of Međimurje. Similarly, of course, these data given in the report, so I've already said it in some percentages, but now if we go in some lengthy meters, we see that there are some 37 240 long meters above the competent archives, and based on archival standards estimated for 37 240 of these long meters of material outside the archives, we need to provide additional, as I said, storage space of approximately 5500 square meters. The same is the fact that state archives showed at the beginning of 2017 that in the archives in Croatia we have employees of 503 employees, of which 373 are employed in professional archival affairs and most of them are in archival occupations, i.e. by titles. The archives also showed the need to employ a total of 97 new employees, as well as the need for a new space of what I have already said, so 31 974 square meters, this all refers to a storage space whose upper limit is approximately 26,000 square meters. And just these indicators actually point to another visible fact, which is the obligation and necessity to develop a national plan for the development of archival activity, which would develop detailed action measures to address the problem in the long term, particularly the lack of spatial capacity of state archives, and then increase the number of professional employees, employees. And of course what I think is very important in order to define the comprehensive process of digitization of archive material. What I find important is that the recorded material should, of course, be, as has been done so far, accessible to users in accordance with the regulations already laid down by the creators of the above-mentioned archive material, which, of course, ensures its availability. And of course, among other things, this is one of the intensities of the new law on archive material to make the material available with the date of origin and made available to all interested users. But what I find important here to point out is that this very availability of the archival building that I was just talking about, just the first step in when it comes to effective use of this building, what needs to be done and done, therefore, systematically and planically on it, that was already the case, therefore, digitisation of the archive building, including the one according to Article. Paragraph 21 is replaced by the following: But also, when it comes to digitisation, this fact is indicative of the need for a new storage space, for a new number, 97 new employees, I still think, I think, to think further about whether, if we go systematically to digitisation of the archive material, there will be so much space capacity, but also so many employees, new ones, 97. I think it might be useful, but now to start thinking about the profile of employees, current and future ones, in order to ensure effective digitisation of archival buildings and so on, it is also important to systematically plan and finance projects at national level, which would be processed on a scientific and above all, and an objective way of disputed topic, as well as contemporary history, so, of course, from particular emphasis on those topics, on which, or through which Croatian politics, the creation of the Croatian state, the Homeland War and similar topics are discredited. So there is a very important systematic approach, systematically plan, finance, relevant literature on all under-known topics in this area, whether or not. So other than, so, systematic approach to digitization, I think this is a financial aspect and this is an entire logistics aspect, in terms of insurance, so, books, relevant literature related to this problem, I find very important. And finally, I would like to thank the Ministry of Culture, to congratulate, to the Ministry of Culture on this once comprehensive report, and to the fact that all this list, the collection of lists, has been done naturally in the deadlines, with the systematicity of collecting and keeping track of all archives, which took part here by a series of dates, through which continuous monitoring has been ensured, therefore, since 19 June of last year, 31 July, 20 September '17. On 13 October and finally 13 October last year, when complete construction was delivered, according to the law by 30 May of this year, the ministry carried out its task under the prescribed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83839	Thank you very much. One is a replica, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83840	Dear fellow Bedekovic, you have well praised this report that is here before us. However, the fact is also what me and my colleague Hasanbegovic said in their statements that the ministry obviously does not want to implement the law, obviously going towards closing the archives. We all remember well how the archives were opened, how we practically forced you to do it, we sent the law and put it in the procedure, that is, for discussion and voting ahead of the local elections, then you shouldn't refuse it, and we already have a tendency to go towards closing the archives. I, too, would joke in the context of what my colleague Stazic was saying, when he spoke about how many members of the party had gone to HDZ, and maybe that's why such resistance to opening the archives, but whether he should not be afraid of fellow Stazic in the spirit of this announced large coalition, he may again be worth it, about the party in two parts, will be whole again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83841	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Who knows if the agents had to be party members, who knows. Mrs. Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83842	Dear colleague, thank you very much, dear colleague, I would not enter into an analysis of your thinking and your views on this matter, but here, I understand your frustration and I understand your task. You're in a position where you are, you're currently in opposition, you know that this government is working on a system-wide resolution of the new Archive Act, and I'd love it if you'd listen to me while I answer to your line, but if you don't want to, it's not a problem, so I'll stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83843	Thank you very much, and now it's Mr. Culey's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83844	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here I am reporting on this subject, because it is very important for the Croatian people, because we are in the Croatian Parliament, as representatives of that same Croatian people, who chose us with their vote to represent them in their place. Throughout history, the Croatian people have known who his representative is and who he is not, who is telling the truth and who is not speaking, i.e. who's lying. So the Croatian people, and here we see that they are not happy with us MPs, so they launched a referendum to change something for the better. Because obviously it's not what it's supposed to be. Today, when we talk about archives, and what is the purpose, to open them or close them, when we know very well, that the purpose of the archive is to serve, to store data about someone or something, so that with a period of time, from a certain number of years, they can enter these same archives and learn some things about the future and future generations. Which, however, is absurd in Croatia, because it is impossible to do this because we are one of the few countries, where they have made a very good and hearty effort, which were in the interest of removing all evidence of their 50-year negative actions against their people, so in one case only their informants, associates, 60 thousand UDBA files exist in archives, I will repeat, 60 thousand, and there are no UDBA associates in those 60 thousand whose file would be available to the Croatian people for insight. In this Croatian Parliament, at one point I asked a fellow representative, if your code name Odysseus, and he has been so important and important to a sophisticated person and action throughout history since the former Yugoslavia said this: in two separate court proceedings I have proved that I am not the one you call Odysseus. And he sued people, probably even got courted, and people might even be convicted of slander. But I was at a press conference the day it was voted for Istanbul and against, and I called the gentleman with the documents of his personal archive that came to me by accident, and he fell from heaven from some Croat, so I came to his archives and his work of the wicked who worked against the Croatian people, against whom he called himself as if he belonged. So we who sit here, and many of us know that we may have had our own file in the archives, which someone on assignment removed, for one reason only, so that no one who thinks, who wants, who loves as a Croatian people, can call them because we in Croatian society didn't have a lustration, so that you and such ones are secreted from any governing bodies, and especially from the Croatian Parliament. And this was the case in Germany after the fall of the Berlin Wall, when all informants, perpetrators, from executions from all immoral acts against the German people in the form of Stasi were removed from public life. This did not happen in the Croatian people. Why? Because someone has worked hard to get into archives, especially UDBA, and to remove every single possible evidence that we are surprised today as Alice in a wonderland or by folk as a turkeyworm. And now we're discussing archives. A fellow MP, Stazic, is right when he says that in the 1990s, how many thousands of communists have gone to HDZ. So who's surprised? And the children of Partizan, the grandchildren of that war, joined in the defense of Croatia, and I had one with me, but I had not had one, those who continued to do what their fathers had begun. Robbing Croatia, destroying Croatia, betraying it, attacking it, calling it in front of the world that we are aggressors in Bosnia. There are those who have never given up on their mission, fighting against the Croatian state. You and those guys could be sitting here today, or they're not here today, someone slipped their card possible. They've got their own man again, like in every system. You can drag through the archives, you can extract the archives. He's got me. I'm gone, if necessary. We're talking about the Homeland War, the Homeland War archives. How can we not speak when we have allowed the archives of the Homeland War to enter from Bosnia their attorneyship, to search and based on these archives to process and persecute our Croats in Bosnia who have barely survived. And today we're witnessing what's happening to us out there, and we don't think it's going to affect us. Says the folk, when the bear plays next door, they'll come to you. The communists who found themselves in HDZ, many, many, many thousands, many did so out of fear, many at the time did not know that their archives had been cleaned. They kept working. Some of them went to privatization. Their names and the one from England are well known. There's a lot of them who took advantage of privatisation and took what belonged to the people, and they purposely transferred it to HDZ because they're pictured, HDZ. They changed the book, red for blue, but they remained the same, many among them, not all. But it is known who have continued such an action because today we have tycoons of famous names and last names, often fellow Glasovic mentions them here. We refer to the truth in the Homeland War. They're talking about someone... Fired in the village of Bor, and these same and such members of such a party do not come to the fifth exhibition that I present here at the Baška plate, and they are bound by the Homeland War, so that I show them the truth about the Homeland War, that we tell this Ambrust at the time that he was fired, that there was no Ambrust at the time, but that it is necessary to again accuse Shusk, President Tudjman that they are the challengers of the war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we also had a recent show on Z1, a show called Stav, says Shušak, a hero or a criminal? So various such appear and speak of the Ambrusts as if the Croats caused war in the village of Bor and Vukovar. Maybe they've done so much evil to them throughout history that they've had to kill all these people, Croats, women, old men, children, defenders, wounded people, prisoners. And which is the brain that goes to justify one crime in this way, and in the Croatian Parliament, five exhibitions do not find it appropriate to go. The MPs also sit here, and there was an exhibition on the exhibit that tells of a time that Assistant Minister of the Interior Slavko Degorcija in the book “It Was Not In vain” on page 166 spoke about the case of Dr. The sretter who killed in Butz, tortured before that, the good man of the HDZ who called for peace, for reconciliation, for war-killed. There is a representative and eternally endangered bamboo about the historical facts of Jasenovac who worked until '51, bamba la bamba and today the most endangered representative of all time. Thank you, so much for the three stops.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83845	Thank you very much. Dr. Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83846	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, dear colleague Culey. In a mile and a half of communist buildings there are many truths that have been interpreted frequently and politically colored over time. So that we need to know history, that I need to know the truth I will answer you or sublime all your thoughts and what you've been saying. We need to know who we are and who we are and where we're going, so except for the opening of the archives of security services last time, I'm interested in opening up and the availability of construction from a newer time. You mentioned one moment, but it took you a while, are you interested in reviewing the privatisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83847	Thank you, too. I suppose you'll answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83848	Of course. Dear colleague, esteemed and esteemed. I'll answer you. Not only am I interested in privatisation but I am particularly interested in illustration, and I am also interested in the archives that the DORH and the Croatian judiciary may have, which pretends that these archives do not exist. And you know why? And that's what we're going to trace because many of those are '91. and '92. participating in the aggression against the Republic of Croatia today are in the Croatian judiciary even on war crimes issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83849	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Ivica Poljičak's turn on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83850	Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Indeed, I will try to answer a part of the question or part of the remarks that came to this report during today’s debate. First of all, I would like to say, of course, I have been closely following the overall debate during today, and I can say, and it is kind of an honor that this report has not been questioned by anything. So the set of facts inside are really facts, and as Professor Tudjman here said we can disagree and give some other political qualifications, but this report is based on facts. The facts in this regard are unquestionable, and I don't see anyone questioning it today. The second question, of course, is how to continue to apply to the development of archival activity and in that section relating to the material of which the lists are set out in Article 21a(1). Laws on archive materials and archives, as well as total archive material located outside the archive. That's what I hold crucial in these circumstances. But I'd like to say some more things here while we're in direct communication. The esteemed representative of the Grmoje, who has made an extremely large commitment to amendments and additions to the Law on Archive Paper and has performed a lot, etc. He initially praised the report to this extent that I wondered what was coming after this because I did not learn to listen to that tone, I was used to a little of the other political qualifications that Mr. Grmoy represents when the law on archival materials and archives was followed, and of course it followed. So here's the thing, just to find out the facts, I'd like to point out some things. First of all, you asked what was missing, and if it wasn't in the list of current ones that were established, etc., that's one of the things that we simply can't answer. Whether in some time that we have before us some archival material that is not presently in the current owners, that's all from that list that you were then identified as a proposer, that's what we don't know at this point. But it certainly does not stand for your claim that you have made on many occasions, which is that the Ministry of Culture does not want to enforce the law. That's just not true. Here's when we're talking in a little calmer tone like this. What can I tell you about that? You yourself have determined as to this report, but you have taken a step further in relation to the deadlines relating to sublaws or regulations. So it's not in that sense broken law is it very well known if within that specified deadline it is not in conformity that the law is then directly applicable and in these circumstances makes us absolutely peaceful and at no time has the work of the archive stopped, nor have we had in that sense an objection that came from any of the competent archives. I would also like to say that this report is not here in front of you as you said it would end the current law. It was among the two readings of the government's proposal, which was made on behalf of the Government by the Ministry of Culture because it simply coincided with the deadlines, so on February 7th in the Croatian Parliament was the first reading, and in the first reading the great majority was accepted. The deadline for the second reading is 6 months, so here's the point is that the report came in, something bound us in this sense to those deadlines that we did at the time. It was also a matter of planned funds for accuracy, for the sake of good information waves say that in the annual budget for all the competent Croatian archives to be allocated to full 79 million kunas, therefore we cannot say that it is not isolated, as if the archives were left at the mercy and mercy of themselves, and there is no claim here that what we are doing, and of course we are doing it in some continuity, but here are these things that have been happening lately, so this year was the opening ceremony of a new archive in Vukovar, so as you can see here Vukovar is among the five archives that can take over the archive material, Dubrovnik that can't since '78. for years to download new archive material because it's simply an old space. In cooperation with the city of Dubrovnik, I hope by the end of this year, at the very beginning of the next calendar year we will have a new archive and a new archive store. The state archive in Zagreb can receive archive material, it is also done throughout the entire once, let's call it a working hangar, a new storage space from the Croatian State Archives in Kerestinco. So I could really list it really like this, I think this report is more in function, to find out the facts and see which new solutions we can offer to make things better, and much less in what we could hear in the work of your political qualifications in terms of a little populist message, we opened up, you close up, etc. So archival material is available in the competent state archives, after the lists have been established, with competent holders where each of you is based on it can leave, may request, may see. I think that in these circumstances it was crucial to determine what archive material is and where it is and now we will see within the legal deadlines on its transfer to the competent state archive where it can be immediately done and placed in adequate conditions. Also here is Mr Hasanbegovic, I would say, being a kind of political programme because it's very difficult to answer you know about that kind of debate when someone starts by essentially talking about an invisible anti-illustration report, is that, I wish that we had caught some concrete elements from the report itself, but I can't answer, I can't shut up about the fact that the Ministry of Culture has stated here that we didn't do anything. Here in this report, if anything else, sees what we did, and as I remember Mr. Hasanbegovic was a culture minister for a time, I failed to find a single line that remained behind him, which referred to archival material and to the conclusion of the law on archives, I would be happy to continue to find it. So much about who is working and Mr. Stazić has spread the subject far here and gone from the framework of the report itself, but just because of one quality information he would like to point out that this part of the colloquial party material that was handed over to the State Archives on 2 occasions, it is located in that attic, when you see a beautiful building, indeed one of the most beautiful... The building in the city of Zagreb, there is one part of the attic, there is this archive material, it is 6200 long-term, it is available, as is available to every other archive material, along with a small fence that needs to be pointed out here, which is that the former Federation of Communists of Croatia, the former SUP which is now a successor of the Ministry of Defence and the Secretariat for People's Defence, which is now a successor of the Ministry of Defence, according to the 1977 Law on Archival Material, were not bonds to hand over archival material to archives, which does not mean that there was no autonomous archive or writing, as we will call it, and it is quite arranged, at least as regards this archive material relating to the former Central Committee of the Communists. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happened with this archive material until the moment of surrender, it was an autonomous matter of the Communist Union itself, after the Alliance of the Communist Party for Democratic Change or after the SDP. This is what I wanted to determine the fact that it works, and I have to say this at the very end of what Mr. Grumoy was saying, this report wasn't done with any other purpose, but really from one obligation that came from the law itself, I think it's worth it, I think it's very illustrative. I've been, uh, I've been going over almost every government archive in the past few months, I've been talking to a number of archive users, I've been talking to the directors on several occasions, and there's a chronology that we've been collecting these lists. Somehow, they argued that we would be much more grateful and that in some other way we helped to get the archive material out of the archive to fit in the archive, except that we were yelling in a way that we were creating, listing problems and simplifying them, instead of offering a little more solutions. I hope this report is on the trail of the solution, and I hope that the national plan for the development of archival activity that will take care of both digitalisation and new digital archival material and this archive material that is outside the archive will be one significant step forward, and as far as this archive material is concerned, '45. By the 1990s, what is written and which is located in the competent State Archives is currently available and I think that the full purpose and purpose of the law itself has been achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83851	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Mr. Grumoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83852	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what you're saying is a lie. So exactly what I was saying was that the pricer was proof that it was not true, the rule of use must define the price list according to the legal criteria, obviously it was not done, so you did not adopt a rule on the use of archive material, but you did not directly apply the legal provision. So everything I've been saying is absolutely correct. You didn't answer how much money you planned to accept this material, and you didn't practically give me an answer to the question about how it could go to the material maker. I can't come or someone who thinks about coming to SOA and looking for archive material. So it's clear that everything I've said I didn't have a political or populist speech, but I specifically pointed out that you're breaking the law, that you don't want to implement those provisions of the law. And the fact that Ivo Stier didn't vote on your first reading and that you're waiting for when you're going to put this law so you don't put it in the process shows what the intention is, and the intention is to close the archives that we've opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83853	There's no answer. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83854	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A point 1. The law on archive materials and archives, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate was concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: a report on the pooled lists of archives referred to in Article 21 is hereby adopted. A point 1. The law on archive materials and archives. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 107 for, 3 abstentions and 17 against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83855	And we move to the last item of the agenda today: - Proposal for a Law on the Military Solidarity Foundation, first reading, P.Z. Number 335. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here with us is Mr Tomislav Ivić State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83856	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. You have before you the proposal for a law on the Military Solidarity Foundation. It is known that military personnel in the performance of the tasks are exposed to the dangers of suffering which leaves consequences for the family and the community and imposes the need to provide support in solving the problems that have arisen. The legislative framework relating to the rights of military persons by adopting this law and the establishment of the Military Solidarity Fund formally provides for additional support for defence workers. Over the last ten years, around 200 humanitarian actions have been carried out at the Ministry of Defence level to collect financial assistance to employees in situations where certain funds are not sufficient to settle the necessary costs and the adoption of this law would stop the need to organise such actions. The adoption of this law and the establishment of a trust, the funds will be collected on a targeted and dedicated basis for specific purposes, as well as a faster and more efficient allocation of assistance to employees according to uniform and pre-specified criteria. This law establishes the Fund of Military Solidarity, regulates its bodies, property, methods and sources of financing. The founder of the foundation is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights and obligations on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are realized by the Ministry of Defence. The proposal is to establish the foundation to promote humanitarian action and support the employees of the defence resistor in all forms of suffering and endangering their social status, provide financial assistance to members of the families of the deceased, provide material assistance to the unemployed parents who were the sole guardian, provide financial assistance for the treatment of severely ill persons and members of their immediate family. The trustees are the board of directors and trustees. The Foundation shall be managed by a management board of five members employed by the Ministry of Defence. The term of office of members of the Management Board shall be two years with the right to re-election. The President, the Vice-Presidents and members of the Management Board shall carry out their duties without compensation. The Management Board shall appoint and resolve the duties of the administrator and the Deputy Director of the Foundation who shall also perform their duties without compensation. The term of office of the manager and deputy director of the foundation takes two years with the right to re-election. The foundation's basic assets are worth 100,000 kuna, which will be paid to the Foundation by the Ministry of Defence on the burden of the state budget of the Ministry of Defence's division. The fund is financed from the income of assets, gifts, this law of the prescribed revenue and other revenue. The Fund may generate revenue from the profits of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The revenue from voluntary staff contributions shall be cash assets which, on the basis of their written voluntary statements, are continuously deducted from the amount of their net monthly salary. Other revenues from the foundation are obtaining revenue from donations and other activities such as organising voluntary concerts, making and selling presses and similar activities. The financial year of the foundation begins on January 1st and ends on December 31st of the same year. The Management Board shall be obliged to submit to the Ministry of Defence a financial report on the work of the trust within 30 days of the end of the quarter. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall determine the temporary manager of the Foundation within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. The temporary manager of the Foundation is authorised to represent the Foundation and take all necessary actions until the appointment of the Director of the Foundation. So this in the shortest lines would be what's most important about the Foundation. I suggest you support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83857	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivić. Since there are no speakers you want to give the final? Thank you very much. Then we'll consider it a closed debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, and as for tomorrow, Thursday 24 May 2018 at 9.30 p.m. Final proposal of the Terminal Act for Intended Natural Gas. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 333. And after that, the final draft law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the second reading. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 9.30. Prepare yourself well. Here, you can leave. Session interrupted at 15.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-23-0.u83858	Proposal for a Law on the Military Solidarity Foundation, first reading, number 335, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Military Solidarity and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 123 for, 1 abstention, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
