ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78151	The next will be an independent representative of the respected Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78152	Dear colleagues, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I would refer here to recent developments related to Croatian foreign policy or to statements by Serbian Minister Vulin, or the statements and behaviour of Serbian President Vujčić. It is clear to all of us that the perfect PR campaign by our prime minister eventually escalated that the Croatian delegation from Belgrade had simply escaped even though it was not known whether Mr. Seselj had even trampled the flag. But this campaign goes so far that now all those things that were being ignored are suddenly coming out and now suddenly we see them. Vulin spoke in our homeland of civil war in the Republic of Croatia, demeaning our country, I'll say he spit on the Homeland War, and no one saw it, no one noticed either the president, nor the prime minister, nor any of the ministers noticed it. However, it is now as if Prime Minister Plenkovic needs one move to the right, and suddenly it is said that we have the unauthorized behaviour of the Serbian minister who has always been an illicit behaviour, suddenly neglecting that walking attitude towards Serbia where it is extremely, extremely obvious that the only mission by Andrej Plenkovic is in this direction to get Serbia into the EU at all costs. And Croatia will do absolutely anything to get her in without finding out where the remains of Croatian defenders are, without anyone being told about all those crimes that were committed in the Homeland War without being paid for and the kuna of war damages. And then we need Mr. Vulin the Serbian Defence Minister to come to our homeland and talk about his warlord, about his commander and how he listens to him to open his eyes to us. I think it is only about the PR that here as far as the current furniture is concerned, the current government has no interest in protecting our country and its foreign policy finally being consistent with what the Croatian people will. When we talk about Serbia, there is not a single Big TV daily that we don't have any news from Serbia, it's very interesting. Both state television and private television daily we have news from Serbia, and by the way, we have no idea what's going on in our friendly neighbouring Hungary. We had an interesting political situation in neighbouring friendly Italy, no one knows how it got rid of it, but we know when Seselj sneezes, when he sneezes. And we forget and ignore constantly that this same Serbian president was a member, a member of a radical party today rehabilitating Chetism and calling for big Serbia in Croatia and ignoring it, without any excuse as if nothing was happening. I believe that Croatia's policy here should be really resolute, not just used for daily policy purposes. I think that Croatian politics should say a lot in relation to Serbia, you have to apologize, you have to tell us where the remains of Croatian defenders and civilians are and finally you have to pay us war damages. And I'm telling Mr. Vulin from this place, many of his contemporaries, unfortunately, left the Republic of Croatia on tractors, don't forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78153	Let's move on, now it's an independent representative, respected Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78154	You've already heard we're marking Europe's day. In 1950, Robert Shuman went out with a so-called The Shuman Declaration in which he announced the Coal and Steel Community. And today, along with the anthem, we also have a flag on this day, which is the official EU Day, that is, Europe. However, this same Europe has failed us many times. I will remember here a fatal event, perhaps the biggest tragedy of the Croatian people that occurred just in May. And that drama, that is, the first act of that drama, began to take place on this very day. I'll talk about forbidden history, talk about whispering for 40 years, talk about Bleiburg. I will talk about an event that was to fall into collective oblivion, about an event that was not to be talked about, about a Bleiburg field that did not exist on Yugoslavia's geographical map or socialist Croatia. This month is a month of recollection of 100,000 victims, Croats above all who died, who were slaughtered, killed in the Beiburg field or later on the Crossroad. The path of death that the Croats called the Crossroad because the Croats lived there is the most severe torment. It was the bloodiest revenge that was remembered in World War II. And this same Europe whose day we are marking just then failed the Croatian people. There, as during the war in BiH, Croatian soldiers turned themselves in to English officers, and they, as during the war in BiH, handed over to criminals in the Bleiburg field of Croatia, butchers who had no pythetics for weeks afterwards, killed and slaughtered, filled Hude pits, filled Jazovka and later banned from talking about it. I must stress that these are the same English officers, Europeans as we are always seen as well as very well aware of what conventions are and what can be done and what cannot be done. But here, the Croats are a tough people. The resilient people of the dog survived and Bleiburg. So many years later, they heard the truth and told the truth. And today, from this highest home of Croatian people, you can talk about Bleiburg no matter how much it bothers someone because Bleiburg is a sacred place for the Croatian people. And I call upon all Croats and Croats to remember these victims, young men and girls who have been killed by the removal of criminals and who we remember these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78155	Next on behalf of the Independents, the MP will speak to the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78156	Dear colleagues, dear Vice President of the Parliament, I am not independent. I'm a member of the Oak Party, but I'm not in any club, so that's the difference, and I'd like it to be emphasized. So, I'm a member of the Oak Party. Apology accepted. [[I'm sorry about my lapus. Here, I'm sorry.]] Dear colleagues from the SDP, the Living Wall, the Most, the HDZ. As you probably know, democracy is taking place in our homeland in the squares of all Croatian cities in all municipalities. Signs are being collected for two referendums. One referendum is “The People decide”. A referendum for a fairer electoral system. The second referendum is "For Cancelling the Istanbul Convention", which you welcomed with applause in this home. So it's about two separate referendums where people, ordinary people who don't belong to the political elites that you belong to, took an annual vacation, gave it to their country to make this country better, to make it fairer. And at this moment while you are sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, thousands and thousands of volunteers in Croatian squares, on the streets of Croatian cities stand and collect signatures for these two initiatives. "The Truth on Istanbul" and "The People Decisions". They're collecting signatures to make our country a better place to be fairer to us. Unfortunately, I have not heard from any of you from any of you that any of you have referred to the harsh obstruction of the democratic right of your fellow citizens. Your colleagues from the SDP, your colleague Vojko Obersnel, the mayor of Rijeka, obstructs democracy in the worst possible way. He decided to ban the referendum's "Truth on Istanbul", or an initiative to cancel the Istanbul Convention to collect signatures in the area of the city of Rijeka, so we understand each other. Another initiative made the same thing impossible for a few days, so after he thought about it, he decided that he might allow it. Unfortunately, your SDP colleague isn't the only one who made it impossible. Your colleague from Graz near Makarska did the same thing. Mr. Mayor of Senj has decided that he will only allow one day to collect signatures. I have to point out another very big problem here, which is that many of the mayors, the mayors of the municipalities, have taken the right to charge for the use of public city areas, and thus also make it impossible for the democratic will of the citizens. And I wonder if you would be as quiet if it were an initiative that suits you? Unfortunately, I have not heard from my colleagues in HDZ that they have stood up, that they have raised their voice against the will of Private Obersnel and similar to him. And it is about the harshest violation of democracy, and not even you, Vice President of the Parliament, who has one function, which is extremely responsible, you were expected to say something and your colleague Jandrokovic, to oppose the prevention of democracy in our country. Not only that, but people in front of citizens' initiatives gave them submissions to the State Election Commission, the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the Constitutional Court, where they reported these events. We've got silence, no one's saying anything. Today, correctly, at this very moment, the DIP was manifested, that exactly the Ministry of Administration, our Minister Kustević has been in charge of solving this problem, and he has not been pleading on this issue for 8 days, i.e. ignoring the inability to collect signatures for these referendum initiatives. However, however, people will continue to sign on and on this occasion, I urge everyone, that these 3 days, as far as we have, take advantage of the opportunity, to take advantage of the opportunity, to sign it, both for one and another initiative, to have the best, the fairer Croatia, the fairer election system, but to cancel this controversial document, which you have welcomed with the dance here. And this very community that we have today in the stands of Croatian streets, in the squares of Croatian cities, I am sure that it will win success and prove to all political elites that the Croatian people are breathing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78158	Dear MPs, respected MPs, continue our work and before we move to the point of the Amendments and Supplements Act in primary and secondary schools, we have a free debate. So far, six representatives and six clubs have reported themselves. Comrade Pernar, reported on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Goran Aleksic, so you can't have two. Then we'll start with a respected colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic, an independent representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78159	Dear President, dear colleagues. Last time I warned your deputy, I'm not independent, I'm a member of the Oak Party, a movement for a successful Croatia, but I don't have a club right now, so I'm performing this way. So that's it, in the future if you can keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78160	I can't. You speak here as an independent agent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78161	But I'm not independent, I'm a party member. Then I couldn't actually talk at all, could I?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78162	If you don't want to talk, you've got a chance to talk, so please don't teach me what's right yet, which isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78163	So, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues. I'd talk here about hate speech. I am glad that my colleague Stazic is in the Assembly right now because I am about to refer to some of his recent statements, so I will also quote what the esteemed colleague Stazic recently wrote on his Facebook account. Did the Croatian defenders have the advantage of going to Ireland for that? Very nice, very funny, in late nights. My colleague Stazic wrote a statement that deeply offended all Croatian defenders, their family members, my colleague Stazic, and I will dare tell all Croatian citizens, especially all those patriots, obviously in which you do not put yourself. But that wasn't enough. After a Facebook shootout, he continued his hate speech and said or wrote, it seems that in May 1945, war winners did not do the job properly. There wouldn't be any comments like this, and it was a Facebook shootout. If it was someone, I'd say conditionally, the representative from that other part of the political spectrum, I'm sure my colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, would have reacted very much. But no one from the SDP, except for some small comment also on the social network, Mr. Bauk, who was not so explicit, was fenced by this hate speech, such a clear speech of Mr. Stazic's hatred. And it's unacceptable. I'm wondering if the DORH is specifically taking care of this and whether it's going to happen by chance as it was going to be for hate speech, I'll say, on the other hand. It is a terrible fact that nearly 500-600 of our fellow citizens have squeezed that character, lagging these statements to Mr. Stazic. But he still has a chance. She has the opportunity to justify this to her own, continue to claim and regret that the victorious army has not killed and slaughtered absolutely everything she encountered in Bleiburg and the Crossroad and has the chance, here perhaps for the first time to apologize. To apologize to all Croatian citizens, all those victims who were innocently killed there, apologize to all Croatian defenders for these two statements that are extremely unacceptable. Dear colleagues from the SDP, from GLAS, from the HNS, you are extremely loud when hate speech on the one hand should be condemned. Jump on your back legs, go out on the street, write petitions, demonstrate, and here in the benches together with you now sits the man who is the elected Croatian representative, who has done something that is in line with all possible laws in the Republic of Croatia, with the Constitutional Republic, and I will say with common sense. And you keep your mouth shut. And I believe, primarily you from the SDP, because you are one of the strongest parties in the Republic of Croatia, you need to make it very loud and clear on this matter. If not, then we know what you mean or we have the tacit approval of this extremely clear, explicit hate speech unremembered by Croatian representatives. Also, Croatian Parliament Speaker Mr. Jandrokovic, I believe that as president of this higher home, the highest home in Croatia, you should also put this topic in focus, as well as Mr. Pupovac, who is always the protector of those weaker, minorities and against hate speech. But everyone shuts up like a bay, silences an unremembered scandal, and thus approves of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78164	Comrade Zekanovic, it is not my duty to react to all the nonsense that is being heard. I'm one of you, and I don't have to react to anything that any parliamentary representative says. So I'm asking you not to call me that way and you're still imputing my responsibility, very incorrectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78165	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. Before we continue to work on the scheduled agenda points, we have several applications for a position on behalf of the club of representatives. The first came an independent representative, a respected counterpart, Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go. Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78166	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues. I believe we're all proud after last night's game, after our team showed the whole nation how to fight for their country. And I wish that in the same way that our representatives yesterday brought us a great victory, that Croatian politicians would play the game the same way. That they don't play for themselves, they play for their country. Let them play with their hearts, let them play honestly, and not let them play calculatedly as they often do. We've been fighting one battle that unfortunately, one game that I'm afraid we've been losing for 30 years. It's a demographic game. We, regardless of the declarative effort we are making, are systematically losing this battle, or have received many goals, and every time we receive another goal, here from today we will turn the board, today we will begin to solve this problem. However, the problem is not solved. I'd like you from this place a little while while we're all celebrating in familiarity with the situation in our home country that we're talking about, and actually no one has told us what's next and when it comes to us. What you may not know, Croatia had in 1991 4 million, 784 thousand inhabitants. 20 years later, the census lists half a million less, exactly half a million or 4 million, 284 thousand. Today, Croatia loses about 100,000 inhabitants per year according to demographics. It is 80,000 people who have evicted both the Republic of Croatia and the 20,000 inhabitants we lose thanks to negative natural growth. These numbers of people can hardly be understood and perceived, but here I will try to explain a little for example. My Sibenik, which had 41 thousand inhabitants, and today there are only 28 thousand. If this trend continues, my Sibenik will not be able to function in about three decades, and so will our homeland. And no matter how many times we hold the council meetings for demographic restoration and how many times our president will warn us about it and how much we will talk like today. We don't give those goals. Croatia simply disappears. I often say that all living things on earth are shared taking food from the environment and reproduction, except for the Croatian man. The Croatian man's reproduction, or continuation of the species, is obviously no longer important and the Croatian nation disappears in this way. And we care about everything but this. Well, no matter what our budget is, 120 billion kuna, and the prominent demographics claim that 5 billion kunas of direct investment in demographic politics can make a leap, we only give crumbs from the table. So we're going to increase a few thousand more children's extras, and then we're going to extend the maternity leave a little bit, and we're not going to do the right thing. Because obviously every government I think, well, that's one problem that's inherited and I can't solve it. But this government shocks us with the news that there's no money for pensions. So he says, we're going to develop economically, so maybe we'll have pensions. The only way that we can have pensions is for demographic policy or demographic recovery. Without that, my generation and generation of my children will have no pension. It is still very important to mention migration as such here. We have entered the EU because they have given us this economic integration. Unfortunately, we appear to be in the EU exclusively as a labour tank for developed countries of the world. So yearly, we're paying 80,000 people less, with 80,000 educated people leaving, for example. Germany. This is not only a Croatian problem, this is the problem of the whole transition Eastern Europe, but my people are my favorites. I'll repeat, we pay the membership with 80,000 evicted a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78167	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78168	The next will be the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78169	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are often in life, in fact, faced with the fact that we will always talk about problems sooner than the good that has happened or what is happening. So here's the previous colleagues mentioned something in that sense, and I think we should let the public know what we're doing, what has been done, and in any case we should be critical of what needs to be done. I'll look back briefly, although in my speech I didn't mean to look back, and here's the problem, for example. But I have to say, it's actually amazing how some of the shops are interpreted. The state invested significantly in both Rijeka and Split, as well as in Zadar and other ports, and did not expect a return from a concessionary. What should be said is that this happens in Gaženica, that only activities are given in the concession, and not entirely, and that 24m euros are invested in the terminal building itself, while, for the purpose of concession fees and port fees, more than 42m euros of revenue will be made. It is therefore not good to speak incomplete and incorrect figures and to say that the whole procedure has been very transparent towards the public for three months, so it is necessary to find a concessionaire who will succeed in encouraging and leading to a high level. What I wanted to talk about and this is about the report and the State Statistics Institute's statement on the state of our public finances and what happened in the last quarter, that is, the end of 2017. In fact, the obligation of the State Statistics Institute to provide a April report from 2014 to 2017, and according to the ESA methodology, it was in fact found that the surplus of the consolidated general government was 2 billion and 754 million kuna, which is 0.8% of GDP. When we remember that in 2014 the deficit was over 17 billion kuna, it tells us how much effort was made to achieve these results. Although the nominally consolidated debt is larger, we must say that the impact of the surplus generation itself has been primarily reflected in tax reform and changes in the tax system and what should certainly be noted is that a significant improvement in the financial performance of extra- budget users and public revenues during this period has been extremely favourable. In addition, the generation of surpluses has also been affected by the reduction of interest, the cost of interest, and we have witnessed that the reduction of interest occurred primarily in the restructuring of the road debt. What is certainly, with all these successes that should always be highlighted because this is the first surplus since 2002, so it is not insignificant and should be especially commendable to the government's work and its efforts to achieve but in all of this it should take account of citizens and entrepreneurs to think about how to actually tax and administratively relieve both natural persons, the population and entrepreneurs. So, it is very important to highlight what has been achieved in this respect, to do a detailed analysis of what we can do even better and how to encourage GDP growth to be what it is and in no way should we be distracted from the idea that public debt is actually reduced in terms of GDP, that it is 78%. So we aim at those objectives set before us by the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78170	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78171	Let's move on, Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78172	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. You say we look at the polls, so right now I've looked at the poll, HDZ is far the strongest than the Bridge and the SDP combined. So much for Croatian citizens thinking of HDZ and what they think of the Bridge and what they think of the SDP. You want to know what kind of government we have? We have a government that runs a state whose economy has been growing steadily year after year for the last year 2.8%, and we have a government that's taken care of public finances, which you didn't even know about. For the first time, the state budget records a surplus of 0.8% last year, we have a government that has reduced the public debt that is now 78% of GDP, we have a government if you are asking what kind of government we have that is instead of selling the Croatian highways that you gentlemen have proposed and intended, which retains Croatian highways owned by Croatian citizens, saving 50m euros annually to the Croatian budget. We have a further government that has been able to deal with the biggest economic challenge since 1990, which was able to find the law and prepare the law passed by this House, a law that passed the Constitutional Court verification, a law that was confirmed by the British judiciary not to enter the right of ownership, a law that became part of EU insolvency law, a law that allowed dear gentlemen dearly to preserve the Croatian economy and the Croatian financial system, a law that further allowed the public debt to be 78%. If it hadn't been for that law, that Agrokor was left to the street, that Agrokor was left to its owner alone, that Agrokor was left to the bankruptcy law, that Agrokor was left to a pre-fashion settlement, we would have been left to a public debt of 78% today, given the 6.2 billion euros of the Agrokor debt in Croatia, 94% and that speaks of what kind of government we have. We have a government that knows how to deal with problems. And what do we have on the other side? We have an opposition that forgets that the law has written in that government, that the law has voted, we have an opposition whose head of opposition from his press is causing jail without charge and without court, is that a solution for Croatia, is that offered as a solution? Do not respect even the division of executive, legislative and judicial authority. The head of the opposition at his press says prison immediately, and that's what we're offered as a solution in the state. We have a government that respects Croatian citizens, we have a government that knows how to deal with responsibility, which is why the Deputy Prime Minister also resigned, which is why the Deputy Prime Minister resigned. And our assessment that it was a non-serious act when her resignation was sought was based on an act the opposition had directed, and we've talked about it many times already. Therefore, it is good that Croatia has such a government, and about what the Government is, I will end up with it, speaking exactly the ratings of those who support this government and those who are against this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78173	It is now up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78174	Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. So I want to say something like that, maybe I'll say it honestly, since when I come to this assembly, we politicians sometimes give ourselves the task of thinking that everyone in Croatia alone is thinking about us and what we're doing here. I come from an island, tourism in progress, people are doing their job preparing themselves and their facilities and everything they have to live on in which services are not a meaningless branch, i.e. They're not something we can just leave to the case. After this we have a discussion about mines, 20 years after peaceful reintegration we are still talking about mines and demining, but neatly as politicians here we act in a way that in this Croatia everything is either normal or perfectly complex and that we are almost and have no problems. We've got gentlemen and we're trying to deal with them as responsible people, at least I know at the level of this government and these parliamentary majority. What's being offered on the other side? Choices. When we go to elections and choose each other every six months so that some, who are constantly causing it, have the opportunity to constantly choose and check their status among the people. What does it mark these years and a half of this government? Something we did not promise in the pre-election programme, nor in the government programme that we adopted here at the beginning of this parliamentary majority's term, Agrokor, we did not promise, but we are dealing exclusively with this very intensively, so that perhaps one of the biggest economic problems we have faced over the past 28 years will bring a peaceful end. With a result that would satisfy us, first the economy and the economy, and the politicians aside. But we do know that there are those who want a settlement and are doing everything to make it happen with the businessmen, but also among the politicians. But there are also those who don't want it either in the economy or in the politicians. Let's be realistic and say why? Because for 20 and a few years someone's been digging a hole or a hole that weighs 57 billion, where are you today? And someone has offered us a solution to still look like a society that has opportunities and can move on. What's going on? Heavy pressure now when it's due to come to an end. Someone wants to overcome those who want it to end properly and have been finding ways to make it impossible for a year. Always something about the law. Let's remember how it was all moving, so first it was a slow roll up, and then it was over, and then it was slow to change or can we change an extraordinary commissioner at all, and so it went. So then the rest of the stories started to end today on some e-mails, counselors, etc. Not a word about those who've been digging a hole for years. Someone had to take care of it. How did the SDP solve a slightly smaller hole than 42 billion of all economic systems or legal entities in 2012 when it was seen how much was owed, within all? A law on pre-nuptial settlements. No one asked who wrote the law, we all know how it was voted, we all know what it was in the first six months, how pre-fashion agreements were made, about some court-free halls, without anything, everything was perfect, so the regulation was fixed, by the government regulation of 50 articles, we fix it with 45 regulations, and no one is interested in it. Councillors, monetization, agreed 50 million, paid about 20 for business, nothing happened. HPB 15 million, 10 pardons, nothing happened. Tax taxpayers' money, we're talking here, we see that the SDP is always trying to push through these are taxpayers' funds, citizens, not gentlemen, you're manipulating again. I think it's time to say gentlemen, elections are not a solution, and you have so many problems in the opposition, especially in the SDP, so look at your poll, so the president is the worst in your opposition, the worst.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78175	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78177	Thank you very much, Mr. President, fellow MPs. I'm going to say something here today about public encouragement to hate in the Croatian public sphere. This way I'd quote article 325. Penal Code: Who, by means of press, radio, television, computer system or network, which I stress, in a public meeting or in other way, publicly encourages or makes available flyers, images or other materials that are called for by violence or hatred directed towards a group of people or a member of a group for their racial, religious, national or ethnic origin, origin, skin color, sex, sexual commitment, birth identity, disability or other characteristics, will be punished by a prison sentence of up to 3 years. Unfortunately, what we have had the opportunity to hear and see in the public space of the Republic of Croatia, through social networks, is not one violation of this law by the representatives of the SDP, but even two. So we had the first situation where he called on, I guess the persecution and banishment of Croatian defenders from the Republic of Croatia to Ireland and afterwards mentioning '45. that the work is not finished, which I suppose should mean that some people should end up again, or some new people, the descendants of those who ended up in Hudu Jama should also end up in some new Bad Jama, it's not good for Mr. Stazic, it's not good because you, although you claim it's senism, that you didn't think so, etc., you're a state official, you're a parliamentary representative and your word in public discourse has weight, your word can be interpreted in different ways and you're responsible, like all of us MPs should be aware and that's what's dangerous here and that's what's the problem here. Unfortunately, however, this is not the first time that members, let's say the left political options, including the SDP, are thus dehumanizing their opponents and declaring them probably worthless lives. So we've had many opportunities to see in the media, on social networks, etc. the declaration of political insinuation to catatibanes, primitives, law-abiding, fascists, here's what we heard today, etc. What happens here, however, and what I see, I don't see any re-emergence of some imaginary fascism, but I see that some use of antifascism as a kind of professional anti-fascist to exploit some of their political goals, and that's the easiest thing to do is to declare a political opponent a fascist, a Ustasha, etc., because then you can dehumanize him, you can take away his civil rights and everything that follows. Unfortunately, we had the opportunity to see this in the debate on the education system, meaning in some colleges where some people have lost their jobs, just because they're not political options that should lead march through left-wing institutions and that's what's not good, that's where some people put themselves as if they have a monopoly on human rights, a monopoly on non-hate, a monopoly on love, etc., and in fact they're the ones that most widely hate, most lead to exclusion, the most lead to division in this society. And when we call on Ireland, Mr. Stazic, your speeches like this today in Parliament will guarantee you that hundreds and hundreds of young people will go to Ireland because of this because people are not interested in '45, people don't care who was then on which side. It is not the most important thing today, but people are interested in whether they will have a job, whether they will be able to live in Croatia and whether they will be able to advance in the system because of their work. What you do, however, and your contemplators, is that those people who think differently from you, marginalize, throw on social periphery, take away their rights, take away their ability to fight in the public sector for their rights and their views in a way that you actually retain that monopoly on some human rights and some fundamental social values you call upon. Unfortunately, that is what is very present in the media, that is what we could often see but I guarantee you that it will not succeed, I guarantee you that the Croatian public sees what you are, see who spreads hate, who calls for violence and sees who is spreading division in this society and this Republic. And that is why I call on all parties, especially the SDP, to stop speaking hate, to stop spreading impatience, to respect political opponents and to continue to fight correctly in the political arena in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78178	Comrade Pernar, we can't do this, no, please sit down. You have no right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78179	But I wanted to tell you that the stream didn't work, so everything we talked about actually couldn't be seen by the public. Turns out we spoke empty, Mr. President. [[Invader President: Comrade Pernar, do not, please, sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78180	In accordance with Article 238, I give you a reminder, please sit down. Have a seat because you'll get a second warning and you'll lose your right to speak. [[But sir, I'd like to ask you to repeat what we said after the breaks because the stream didn't work.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78181	Mr. Jandrokovic, the stream didn't work. So just what I was saying and what's important is the subject, no one could see, so what's the point of my break? It's like some representative speaking for the club and that video doesn't exist, so I think we should be given. It's a technical error. It's not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78182	Comrade Pernar, please sit down. We're moving on to the agenda, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78183	Mr. Jandrokovic, we cannot move to the agenda until we resolve this issue, this is a very important issue. So those MPs who spoke and didn't broadcast their speech, they have the right to speak to the public and they're denied the right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78184	Comrade Pernar, if you don't sit down, I'll give you another warning, you will lose your right to speak. It's not my responsibility that he didn't do the stream or I don't know if it was a transmission or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78185	Sir, you are the President of the Parliament, you are responsible for how the Croatian Parliament works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78186	Comrade Pernar, you're getting a second warning and today you can't speak anymore, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78187	But Mr. Jandrokovic, not only has my speech not been conveyed, but you are now taking away my full word to speak, it is not democratic, Mr. Jandrokovic It's not democracy, Mr. Jandrokovic, it's dictatorship. [[Intruder President: Please sit down.]] That's the way... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78188	Here you go, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78189	Don't mind me, Honorable President of the Parliament, but I must point to the same problem as my colleague Pernar pointed out. These breaks are intended for the Croatian public to hear and see, however, we were not disabled or there was no transfer from the Croatian Parliament and here is a way to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78190	Okay, I'm asking you to be serious and let's not say things like that right now in the assembly because they don't make any sense. A colleague, Josip Križanić, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78192	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to talk about the state of pork and what we eat. Croatian pig farming is collapsing, I have been talking to cattlemen daily, African swine fever has emerged in the environment and has disrupted meat traffic, and from neighbouring Hungary and the Czech trade chains of foreign owners importing single quantities of subsidized meat of questionable and poor quality without any control at low prices and thus destroy domestic production until the end. Even live pigs from Hungary from 7 kuna are imported to disrupt the domestic market. Between Poland and the Czech Republic, borders rise, fences at the borders to protect national pigs, as vectors are carriers of feral pigs. Other EU Member States protect their national pigs each day in every way by means of various subsidies and support because the price for domestic goods in those countries is significantly different than for imports. Furthermore, in Austria, their regulatory agency very clearly regulates the market by an unwritten rule that there are no imports if there are enough domestic pigs in that week. What's going on with us? Importers of live pigs and meat subsidized by export subsidies and destroy the price now in June at 7 kn. 30 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, the pigs were 10 kn and the oil was 3 kn. Now the price of the pig is 7 kn, and the oil is 10 kn. That's 2 kn below the manufacturer's price. Now in the season, the collapse threatens because at such low prices, domestic pigs will not even be bought. Now listen to this. So we have to export our pigs excellent quality environment by 8.5 kn and in Croatia from Hungary pigs enter 7 kn for surpluses and for African swine fever. In addition to what subsidy, consider yourself and how much then is the export subsidy of meat entering the Republic of Croatia from those countries to which we export. So they're worth buying from us pigs and then selling us meat, so who's crazy about it? And what does the Competition Protection Agency do to prevent the law on unfair commercial practices? Nothing, calmly watching commercials on TV about daily meat price actions is already offered at 18 kn, twice as much as salad and pepper. It's a price far below the manufacturer's anywhere in the world. So do they need a report for that, or should they, directly after the commercial, lift a five-million-dollar dragon penalty so that no one can ever think of importing meat of this quality again? What are you wondering? Look at this. Two days ago in a shopping chain in Pula, a man bought 3 kilos of stove doors when he was cut he had something to see. He's been draining shit out of him. Yes, such meat ladies and gentlemen for 18 kn of Croatian citizens, we feed our children while we export pigs at 8 kn. Pigs are desperate because now in the summer season they lose 200 kn per pig. Once we've destroyed everything, then we'll be importing twice as expensive and twice as bad. There are also major problems in the dairy sector. With sugar and other sectors, but I don't get to talk about it right now. Instead of finding a way to find a way out of the countries where the African swine fever appeared on the smart mechanism of import restrictions, we can't do anything again. Orban can do anything. It first solves its farmers' problem, subsidise exports and then, after solving the problem, deals with the European Commission's applications for 2 years. That is why I appeal from this place and ask Minister Tolusic to protect Croatian citizens from the outside threat. But also from imports of such meat by increased inspection of import meat, and it is therefore important that the food safety inspection is controlled by one minister from field to table because it is doing well here on the protection of human health, and that it does everything to prevent the collapse of the country's livestock industry, because it is a Croatian minister and not an EU minister, and it will have the support of all of us as it has so far. On the other hand, I'm asking the Competition Protection Agency to start doing its job, and it has all the tools for that. All I care about is asking them a question about who they work for and who they protect? Finally, I call on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to buy quality domestic healthy Croatian food. At the age of 5, Professor Zivkovic of Knin told me, don't let other people eat what you wouldn't give yours when you control the meat. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not let our children eat meat like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78193	The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78194	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will look back at something that interested the Croatian public, the second city in the size of Split during these co-election elections was discussed, one of the topics surrounding these elections was also demographics, i.e. emigration of young people from the Republic of Croatia, and it was very much discussed. Demographics show and speak about it by our experts, and statistics show that it is bad and one of the worst in several decades and that fact we need to accept, discuss and take measures. The demographic collapse of the Croatian people did not begin now with this government or before, it began much earlier and we know where the causes of this since the Second World War, the great waves of emigration in the 1960s and 1970s, but also during the Homeland War. The fact is also to say that this government, the government of the Republic of Croatia, was founded at the very beginning by the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy and started with certain measures of demographic revitalisation. With this in mind, I would like to remind you every time that only in the first year of the term of office has it increased the financial support of parents by almost 665 kuna and by 1,663 kuna to 2,328 kuna, and to employees of parents during the other six months by 1,311 kuna from 2,660 to 3,991 kuna, and this is a good measure. It subsidises 50% of the rates of housing loans to young people, the first four years with an extension of two years for each newborn or adopted child, which facilitates the acquisition of the first real estate housing and family establishment. 2,400 requests have been received and will continue to do so. It should also be noted in the tax system reform, with a general reduction in tax burden, a personal deduction has been increased for children with a pronounced progress that amounts to deductions for each of the following children. So, for example, the parents of two children had previously been exempt from income tax up to 5,680 kuna net, and that threshold rose to 8.000 kuna. The programme of subsidies and the construction of new and adaptation of existing kindergartens has also been launched and more than 400 kindergartens have been adapted in construction and adaptation. The government is aware that this harmonisation of the measures of family policy, intrinsic, housing and migration policies cannot operate only one ministry, one agency or one office, and therefore the Board of Demographic Revitalisation has been set up to prepare new packages of demographic measures that will be introduced in part this year, but also in the coming period. What I want to say is also, and can be seen on the web pages of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy are all those measures that occur from the lowest level, so at the level of municipalities, cities and counties to the Ministry itself, and these measures are a few dozen and they are all shown on these pages. So measures and programmes related to demographic revitalisation are being done. What is not good and what is to be said is a social climate that is bad in our society, and it contributes to that and contributes to a bad demographic picture or to the eviction of youth from the Republic of Croatia. The fact is also at least in my work I saw that the system should be integrated, so it should be integrated from the lowest unit, I would say from the local board, the municipalities, the city, the county to the ministry itself or the government. We would have far stronger and more efficient demographic measures, I hope and believe, and as far as I can hear with the political will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is done intensively through this council, and I think we will also have certain shifts and demographic measures that will contribute to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78195	Thank you. Now we're going to stop and go to the point of view on behalf of the MPs' club, and then we're going to continue, of course, after that with this point. The first came from a respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The following is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78197	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, both from this pay phone and from this high house, we have talked countless times about the problems of blocked citizens, and so in April this year, the government has announced the creation of measures to help blocked citizens, and today it has adopted three laws to implement these measures. It is the Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons, the Law on the implementation of enforcement on money and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on consumer bankruptcy. In the 2016-2020 government programme, one of the measures is to address the problem of blocked accounts, citizens in the long-term blockade, and to create a long-term debt payout scheme for blocked citizens. In order to achieve that measure, it is proposed to adopt a Law on the write-off of debts to natural persons. According to FINA data, 324910 citizens were blocked on 31 January this year. Of the total number of blocked citizens, 85% of citizens have been blocked for more than one year and 66% longer than 3 years. Only by allowing the write-off of up to 10 thousand kuna, a larger number of citizens would be unblocked. The law determines a group of creditors, Group I creditors, who are obliged to write off debts up to 10 thousand kuna per debtor. The principal and the cost increased for the corresponding interest, namely the Republic of Croatia, the budgetary, extra-financial users of the state budget, companies and other legal persons to whom the founder of the Republic of Croatia and other legal persons are obliged to make declarations of fiscal liability. In order to write off the debt, the implementation of the debt on 31 December 2017 must be carried out on cash by account and shall continue until the date of entry into force of this Act. There are also group II creditors, who decide independently whether or not to approve write-offs, and that group includes local and regional self-government units, their budgetary, non-profit users, financial institutions, all other legal entities and natural persons performing registered activities. They also decide on their own how much of the debt they are due to write off. Any creditor who writes off the due debt, up to 10 thousand kunas of principal and expenses and the corresponding interest will be considered to be tax-recognised expenditure. For citizens whose debt exceeds 10 thousand kunas, provided that the debt applies to taxes and other public duties, the possibility of reprogramming unwritten debt of a maximum period of 60 months is given. The measures are also adopted by the Proposal for a Law implementing the implementation of the budget implementation. Three key innovations adopted by this Act are to limit the duration of the implementation on money and only for natural persons, if the claims from the payment base are not charged to the performer in full within 3 years of receipt in FINA, after there has been no payment for that basis for the last 6 months consecutively from the account of that perpetrator, the Agency shall cease to carry out that payment base. The perpetrator will also not have to submit FINA's requests because it will end with automation. There's also a way to make up for it. The executive will... The costs of running the operation in FINA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Executive Director will also be able to obtain data on the blocking of the account in FINA, which will affect the more rational implementation of the cash implementation, which means the smaller total cost of the performance which is ultimately borne by the performer. The final proposal for the Law will have the following effects: the number of perpetrators to be unblocked is 71291, and the amount of debt recorded in the eyewitness will be reduced by 32 billion kuna and 76% respectively. The number of unblocked citizens will be further reduced from month to month. One of the following measures in the package is also helping blocked citizens through changes to the Consumer Banks Act. The measure refers to about 120,000 citizens who have blocked accounts for more than 3 years, whose principal debt amounts to up to 20 thousand kuna. It is proposed to introduce a simple consumer bankruptcy procedure for citizens who are in the so-called ‘citizen’. the long-term blockade of accounts for more than 3 years, allowing the work of insolvency citizens to settle down on creditors from assets in a accelerated and simplified manner if they are similar and to be released from the remaining debt or if there is no property or if it is insignificant, a simple bankruptcy procedure will also be carried out, which means that the bankruptcy will be opened and concluded at the same time, and the court will free the consumer from registered remaining obligations. This way will certainly reduce the number of blocked ones, and in the future it will be easier for them to simply get rid of that debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78199	We're moving on to the agenda now. Excuse me, we have another debate. HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78200	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, in this assembly, we often like to accuse, present certain lies, misinformation. So if you look or if you call someone to the government, then they'll tell you that the government was called today at 8 o'clock solely because of the protocol obligations of the prime minister. So, at 8:00, he has a meeting with the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, then a meeting with the EU court president and then travels to Brussels. And that's just the fact and that's why the government is here at 8:00. The other thing I want to say before I move on to specific things is, colleagues and colleagues, we, when we brought the Rules of Procedure, then someone suggested it, suggested the rules that we have to stick to here and that we have to discuss, discuss and act on. And if you look at the debate on the new Rules of Procedure, you will see, colleagues and colleagues, that no MP on the left or on the right or on the middle has looked back on the article. 3. ct. 5. Not one. No one has mentioned this in their debate, and in the case of St. 5, it is time for this Rules of Procedure to hold a meeting and consult the Club of Representatives on the item of the established agenda of the session of the Assembly. So it's crystal clear that it can't be clearer. Now, take it from us if we keep breaking it, pretend we don't know what we're making on the citizens of Croatia. But let's go for what the HDZ Club has asked for a free word, as we like to call it. First of all, if someone finds that a law is not good, it is known how laws are passed, how laws are changed, and that they are passed exclusively in this home, and everyone can enter their opinions and attitudes. However, when we talk about health care, I would warn all of us colleagues and colleagues about something that is the problem of all governments, systemically, systemically, structurally, whatever kind of problem you want, which is that if you look at the budget last year, everything costs around 23 billion kuna. 18 billion and 870 million kunas are collected from a health care contribution for which, frankly, whenever someone is talking about the price of work, about the incompetence of the Croatian labour price, then the high price of pension and health rates, which together when they are cumulatively summed up annually, creates a minus of some 20 billion kuna, and colleagues and colleagues, if you turn that into VAT, is 10 percentage points of VAT. So Croatia could have a practical VAT rate of 15% if it didn't have this minus. And those are the facts. The next fact is that according to the data contained in the report on the implementation of the state budget and the financial plan of HZZO, you will see that the total health care owes about 6 billion and 800, of which HZZO 2 billion and 100, state hospitals somewhere around 2 billion and 600 and hospitals owned by local and regional self-government units somewhere around 2 billion kuna. Of those 6 billion and 800, 2 billion and 800 million kuna arrived. It's done. So, at this point in time, the hospital and HZZO didn't pay someone 2 billion 800 of the goods delivered and the services done. And I think that's really the biggest problem right now. Because a lot of these people hire people, they need to get paid, and they don't get paid for delivery of goods and services. And that's what we need to talk about when we talk about the budget and when we talk about health care. And when we talk about the Health Insurance Act, then we talk about what kind of health care is like we want, but then we need to figure out how much that kind of vision and how it costs to provide health care to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Only if we talk about two topics and at the same time, can we say that we want to change something good in health care. We don't want them as well as ourselves as council representatives. And I'm gonna end up with that brilliant idea, if the health care goes out of the treasure, the health care will bloom roses. So remember how much the former government has executed. This government increased 500 million last year. They've separated from HZZO. What happened? We only have a non-transparent financial plan than was the financial plan of the HZZO as part of the former position of the Ministry of Health. So colleagues and colleagues, if we want to help someone, we suggest an amendment to the law and let's clearly say that we want it to be that way, Just one more second, please. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you. Thank you.]] But we must also say how much it costs to Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78201	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78202	Thank you very much, President. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, because you have deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly because the break is described on page 140, means Art. 248. where, during a session of the Assembly, the representative of the club of representatives may, once a day, request a break from the club of representatives. The representative of the club of representatives is only obliged to state the reasons for asking for a break and a proposal for the length of its duration in the exhibition for no longer than two minutes. The chairman will approve a break with the fact that the break cannot determine a time of less than 10 minutes or more than 30 minutes. Stanka is described on the page of the new Rules of Procedure 140, Art. 248.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78203	Okay. So the break is defined, I won't give you a warning now, we've been through it many times. But here's another time to finally round it up. So here are the days and explained concepts in art. 3. Explanations where the break is clearly defined as a time specified by this Rules of Procedure in order to meet and consult the Club of Representatives on the item of the session agenda set out. So, my colleague Bulj made it clear to everyone, and today it was particularly unnecessary what my colleague Strenja-Linić did because you had opportunities for free speech. And now she's looking for a break about something she could talk about for five minutes during free speech. So, please, we have a Rules of Procedure, we brought it together, we stick to the Rules of Procedure, and there will be no incidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78204	And the last club to sign up is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78205	Thank you very much. One of the most difficult chapters to conclude Croatia's EU entry negotiations was the one concerning shipbuilding. It is very interesting that in 2013 we listened to pompous statements that the government of SDP, HNS and who was already in the coalition saved Croatia's shipbuilding, that it was restructured, was brought in and how much money, etc. Five years behind what we got? Shipyards on your knees. I also remember the rape that the Sailing Oiler was credited with HBOR. And now there's one question. If certain processes happen at a time of one government, at a time of one political option, how now someone can simply ignore that it happened and ask someone to do something that they should have done. I had to react to my colleague Jovanovic on behalf of the Club because here, you were then a member of the government, discussing the 2010/2011 famous deficit. That's when I told the Prime Minister at the time that he didn't know what he was doing. I think, therefore, a complete programme of restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding loaded to the 2010/2011 budget. The restructuring programme for Croatian shipbuilding was exactly how much from the state budget as the cost of restructuring should be given to Trogir, Split and 3 May Shipyards. If the obligations of the Croatian state from the budget are fulfilled, then the question should be asked to the people who at the time managed the 3rd of May how the money could have happened to go where they went. I think it just needs to ask a question there. Because it's not good political to brag that you've done something you haven't done. You did something the HDZ government didn't want to do, didn't want to sign certain sales contracts. You know that well. You did it in 2013. Therefore, you bear political responsibility for that part. And I can't say today as an ordinary citizen without speaking as a representative in the Croatian Parliament that I don't care what happens to May 3rd. May 3rd is not just a river, May 3rd is a synonym of shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia and anyone who normally thinks and thinks doesn't care what happens on May 3rd. But you've unfortunately delivered a political speech here, and you've scored yourself an auto goal. We can take a phonogram of discussion not to you because it's not your area, you've reacted here more as a man living in Rijeka and I understand that. But I'm telling you what political evaluations and evaluations were. Just remember that the deficit of the state budget that was raised to 15 billion in 2010. And in 2011 at 15 raised somewhere to 25 billion. The total cost of restructures shipbuilding is set in those two years to use that term. So, I also remember the pressure that HBOR gives the oil loan to the boat. I think the HBOR even approved that loan, even though it wasn't approved at one session, I don't know what happened afterwards. So, if someone boasts that he did something, and if that process fails, then whoever boasted he did it lies with political responsibility. So this government can just... What year did the 3 May money go to the Oilman? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How could that happen? What was the management doing, what was the supervisory board doing? The second thing, that 3May sent the report and was obliged to send the report towards the treasury, as well as how he spent the money on restructuring. So, these are facts, let's determine first these facts, call those responsible, and make sure the government takes over everything, because both the SDPs and the HDZ Governments since 2002-2018 shot about 28 billion cash in shipbuilding as a restructuring cost. And where's our shipbuilding today? Here, unfortunately, it is because of those who have misrepresented themselves, as they did in 2013, 2014, in 3May, that you are giving money, the Oil ship. Because if someone bought 3May, and he also owns an oil boat, it's different houses, two different bills, actually, 2 different wallets, because someone can't just transfer money just like this. Therefore, there are responsibilities and these people simply have to answer. There are also certain obligations that someone has made at the time of the purchase of 3May but also support all those fighting for the survival of 3May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78207	We have another presentation of the position of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78208	Thank you very much. Fortunately, the records of discussions in this House are kept in the archives, so I would remind you all of the 2014 extension work up to 67 years. The other thing, no one will say that you then took a billion and 600 million from the second pillar of retirement, you took just to show a better picture because you were in the measure of an excessive deficit. I have no intention of defending anyone here, I want to talk about facts, but if you're taking a billion and 600 million in 2014, '15. And '16. It wasn't controversial, today about something that was imaginary because honestly speaking I don't want to talk about any pension reform because I didn't see it, I didn't see it and nobody saw it. A colleague of Petrov's is probably funny. But also when we talk about mandatory pension funds, look colleagues and colleagues we had here a report on the work of pension funds for 2017 15 days ago. Each, every club, every single person in this House is able to come to this pay phone or speak straight away about what he thinks about the work of pension funds and tell those people right here in the face. And you know who only told them in their face what we wouldn't support and what we wouldn't accept? Only the HDZ club, look at the record, and you'll see. So, fellow Petrov, I am asking you nicely to respect at least if anything else towards a man what you are doing is below all levels. I listened patiently while you spoke. Nicely please, you said, I'll say on behalf of the HDZ Club what we think. So everyone had a chance to say here what they thought, nobody said anything. The second thing, to talk here about risky, non-risk investments, is a clear ignorance of the financial market in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to open a debate here because we're going to have a chance to discuss today when the new Pension Fund Act is in what and how to invest. A colleague of Lovrinović said something I used to say a long time ago, but it is important that some others say that the Croatian financial market is like a watershed without grain. And now I'm saying that pension funds can be invested in one way or another, not riskyly, and at the same time, we've prescribed by law that 60% must invest in government bonds. And now look at the situation we're in, on the one hand, as citizens, we're happy when the state issues bonds as low as possible, and on the other hand we've committed pension funds to investing 60% in these bonds and then we'll say you made a small contribution. Definitely the cost of borrowing the Republic of Croatia will be getting smaller and smaller, then we can't if we force someone to invest 60% of their assets in that saying you have small yields. Yes, on behalf of the club, I told them openly, that we will no longer tolerate it in the reports that they invest in some companies where their mother banks have been a little scrupulous, publicly and openly said it from this pay phone not once. But today we have the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds and each of us will have the right to say that his thinking and thinking is. You see, unlike many who are drilling today, I said in February when the economic crisis began that the pension funds should be abolished and the 20 billion then withdrawn to resuscitate the state. Look what the stakeholders have done. Today and for this reason, I also reported in agreement with my colleague BAčić, pension funds are the most powerful financial institution in Croatia, the most powerful financial institution. They have 100 billion dollars, each year they have slightly less than 6 billion secure incomes from 5% of their contributions and another 3 or 4 billion more to make. And precisely because of those already at the end of this year 100 billion kunas, colleagues and colleagues, our responsibility is extremely large. And no one can pass a law to this House that will devastate the property of Croatian citizens. It's just a fact. And I called on behalf of the club to give the facts. Facts that anyone can verify and facts that cannot be debated politically. What can be discussed is the Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, which today is the second item of the agenda. And when the pension reform comes, then we can talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78209	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. I'd ask my colleagues not to break in or interfere with the speakers. It's also said that we don't disrespect each other. But we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 238(5) has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Namely, a respected colleague, Schuker, disrespected Minister Pavic by calling his statements imaginary even though there was nothing imaginary about Mr Pavic's performances, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u78211	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grbino, and I am pleased that you are taking care of the institutions of the state, as well as the ministers of the government. I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt, even though I've asked the speakers not to disrespect anyone in their statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80562	Honorable MPs and MPs. I welcome you to the beginning of today's agenda. As announced today, we begin with the point: - Final proposal of the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 327. Before that, I would like to warn you that we are going to change the planned agenda for today, so after discussing this point, which I have just said, today we will discuss a point planned for Friday, which is a) a proposal for a decision on the resolution of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities and (a) a proposal for a decision to appoint presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. The reason for this is that the proposing representative simply cannot be, is prevented from being here, and today he is here, and on Friday we would then discuss another point: Proposed law on probation, first reading of P.Z. No. 312. Now, we'd move on to club-carrying. ... Here you go, buddy. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80564	Dear Vice President, I'd like to ask you as Vice President of the Parliament to appeal to the President of the Parliament. We have been here for months in front of the Croatian Parliament building looking at a man who comes from Vis. His name is Miroslav Kuljish, his old mother, who was in '31. Every year, I think they came from Vis to Zagreb 15 times. I don't know if what they're saying is real at all, whether it has anything to do with reality, but this kind of relationship between the institutions is not appropriate and it would be good to accept them to see if what they're saying has anything to do with reality, these problems, not to look at them here in front of the Croatian Parliament building. I personally don't have the heart to watch them come from Visa 10 times here and nobody wants to see them. They're looking for the President of the Parliament and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80565	Now we will cross as we have announced, at agenda points and the first is: - Final proposal of the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 327 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The rules of procedure of the establishment of the agenda adopted the proposal from the applicant to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. The amendments were submitted by the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Dear Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In accordance with the objectives set out in the Transport Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2017 to 2030 relating to the road transport sector which define the obligation to establish accessible, safe, quality, efficient and economically sustainable public transport, the Government referred to the adoption of the Proposal for a Law on road transport with the final proposal for a law. The main objective of the adoption of this law is to adapt domestic legal changes to the road transport, freight and passenger markets that have occurred as a result of new trends in the realisation of transport processes due to the emergence of new modes of transport which had to be regulated legally as well as the need to meet the obligations set out in EU rules. During the final draft of the law, proposals and views on issues needed to be addressed through the work of expert groups and through continued communication with the interested professional public have been collected. Most agreed that the legislative proposal would serve as a more efficient and efficient exercise of public transport and transport activities for its own purposes, the activities of stationary services and the activities of road agents. A total of over 3,500 remarks and proposals were received in the public consultation held at the end of last year on the text of the draft law through the e-consultation portal and over 2,800 remarks and proposals sent in writing. It was primarily about the observations and proposals of car taxi carriers, members of the HOC professional association, in which disagreement was expressed with market liberalisation and market access to all on equal terms. In part, more than 800 remarks were accepted and over 560 were fully accepted, with the final proposal of the law given quality. The legislative proposal that is before you brings numerous improvements to the existing and several entirely new solutions that are regulated through reform measures by transport activities and follow-up activities in road transport, freight and passenger systems. One of the most important newspapers proposed by the final proposal of the Road Transport Act is the organisation of public liner county passenger transport through public service contracts based on the provisions of EU Regulation No. 1370/2007 which regulates the regulation of the market, public road and rail transport which is transposed by this law into the Croatian legal framework and in the road transport sector. The county itself will conclude with the carriers of the contract in question and give them the exclusive right to carry out transport on a network of lines which the county will form in accordance with its transport needs in its area. Instead of the current system of permits that the competent county authorities had no greater influence on, public service contracts will guarantee the implementation of minimum levels of transport service under certain quality standards and in these areas where there is less demand for transport, thus avoiding problems of abolishing non-erable lines and departures, ensuring minimum traffic availability and contributing to further eviction of the population from rural and traffic-related areas of the Republic of Croatia. The reform of the car taxi transport which is implemented by this law involves three essential provisions, under which the introduction of an electronic application as a medium for selecting the shortest route of transport and setting the maximum transport price per passenger is made in advance known conditions, thereby contributing to the digitisation of the company in the transport sector, contributing to the development of information society services in accordance with the principles of economy, cooperation of the European Commission, and allowing users to choose the way and type of payment of the transport service and to enter into a distance transport contract. Under b) car taxis are provided with full entrepreneurship freedom in such a way as to be able to carry out car taxi transport of passengers where they see their economic interest, while according to the current Act, they can only carry out transport in the area of that unit of local self-government where they have their seat or residence. And under c) a limit of the number of car taxi licences in the area of a specific unit of local self-government is abolished, making it possible to comply with the real transport demand, which is particularly important during the tourist season when the transport demand is rising. In addition, a specific test on the knowledge of the area of transport for car taxi drivers, which did not justify its purpose and showed unnecessary administrative burdens in the business of car taxi carriers, the acquisition of professional training for car taxi driver through the examination of the rules governing car taxi activity, the introduction of specific vehicle records carrying out car taxi transport without the obligation to own a license, and the limitation of the maximum price of car taxi fare allowing easier and cheaper access to the market, and carrying out activities on equal terms for all, without introducing new forms of passenger transport to passenger cars. This Law introduces micro transport of passengers to Croatia, primarily in rural, less populated areas modelled by transport-developed EU countries, and creates a transitional but clear legal framework for the full implementation of the integrated passenger transport system through the integration of road, rail and other transport branches into a unique organisational, tariff and technical system. In this way, a new dimension of the quality of transport processes is added, assumptions are created for providing more accessible and cheaper transport services, and will allow end-users to use transport services that are a motive for using public transport instead of transport for personal needs, which will result in less traffic jams, increased road safety, and a more overall more efficient transport system. The adoption of this Act reformes the system of acquiring the expertise of road motor vehicle drivers, which contributes to addressing the problem of driver shortages in the labour market. Test centres shall be introduced for the submission of professional training tests, literature for the preparation of exams and the implementation of education, and qualitative conditions for professional staff to conduct driver training in relation to the current legal solution in driver training centres shall be laid down. In this way, an increase in the number of young and unemployed people is expected to do the job of a road motor vehicle driver, as well as an increase in the level of their knowledge, skills and skills, which will actively contribute to improving the quality of transport services and increasing road safety. The role and location of bus stations in the passenger road transport system is also being reformed, facilitating the distribution of cargo licences through county chambers and redefining and putting under control of the operation of transport for its own purposes. The law restores the provisions of road transport contracts in the Croatian legal framework, ending the transfer of the European acquis relating to road transport of passengers and freight, i.e. regulations and directives of the EU, the European Commission and Parliament which have not been implemented so far. Finally, I believe that the new Road Transport Act will enable more quality and accessible public transport, provide citizens with lower transport prices and offer a wider selection of transport forms in order to meet their transport needs and personal mobility. After the implementation of a number of objectives, primarily in the section of road transport infrastructure, this Law will allow for the regulation of the second segment of the road transport system, i.e. transport industry, and the application of the Law will result in a clear and orderly relationship between all the factors involved in transport processes, transport market regulation and a number of benefits for end-users of transport, primarily through a cheaper, more accessible and more quality transport offer. I therefore urge you to adopt a new road transport law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80567	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas, let's start in a row. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80568	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, it would be good to say here, not through form is possible, there will be no more concessions limited by the number of units of local self-government, but to say whether it will be possible under this law to transport persons in the form that today in the Republic of Croatia, that means whether the Law defined whether Uber can operate, or if there will be no more restrictions on local self-government units, means that more cities will not play a significant role in determining the number of taxis, i.e. people dealing with these jobs in cities, so I wonder whether there is a possibility that there may be a cost of concession fees that, for example, the city of Zagreb will have a larger number of people to be carried out, or a reduction of concession fees, the amount of concession fees, given the increase in the number of people who will now enter this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80569	Thank you. The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80570	Your Honor, I was in the opening section saying maybe it wasn't clear to everyone. So, this Law is going to liberalise the taxi market, in other words, cities and municipalities will no longer be able to determine in their area a certain number, but it will be in a way that will issue as many permits as there will be. That's one thing. Secondly, all work under the same conditions, no one is a special type of transport and anyone who meets the rules and prescribed conditions under this law will be able to carry out car taxi transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80571	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash. Comrade Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80572	Excuse me, thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, in your opening statement, you mentioned the subject of traffic safety several times, or, rather, road traffic. We have a chance to see that last year, the number of road accidents was higher than it was last year. And in the first quarter of this year and at the level of the previous year. My question, actually, about this, is that there's a limit on the age of the vehicle. So it was an idea to limit the age of a vehicle that would serve in a taxi ride, no matter what they called it. I'd like to know how you've decided on that restriction and on what basis and what's the point of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80573	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80574	Thank you very much, ma'am. After this law has been passed, it will be approached by the adoption of a regulation that will define this subject, which you have spoken of. And the proposal is that the age of the vehicle will be limited to 7 years. We will release this rule next week into a public debate and then collect everything, it takes 15 days, then collect all the comments and all that is necessary is whether, we will listen to the profession and the public and then make a final decision but the proposal to be 7 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80575	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80576	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. In fact, here we are on the Transport Committee talking about this law, it's good, it's going in the right direction. And I've made a few remarks about this law, and I'm going to repeat them now, here's when the minister is here. I'm glad to hear that the county will give the permits again. However, here I have asked for permission to go into agreement and conversation and the approval of the local self-government unit. Namely, the county has a specific unit of local self-government in its area, some say public transportation goes together with the transport of primary school children, some not responding. Well, if you didn't put the law into the law, it means with the consent of the local self-government unit. And the long thing, you spoke here about integrated transport, I'm glad that you finally started to integrate the approach, Zagreb County, City of Zagreb and Zagorje County have long been in that integrated transport, for years we haven't done anything, whether it is possible to put a deadline in which this integrated transport must be implemented and started to operate. Here, specifically, so please, here, can you answer and solve this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80577	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80578	We've been considering this part of the esteemed representative as far as county and county relations and municipalities are concerned. And we've estimated that it's better that the county, when they edit transport in its area, conduct a debate together with cities and municipalities, go with the final proposal. We were afraid that with such a single proposal, to include both cities and municipalities directly into the law, I don't know if we could make the deal, that's how we assessed it. The proposal is to have these county offices in their area. And, of course, every mayor and every "real county government" will conduct a public debate and agreement with cities and municipalities on their territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80579	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80580	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Mr. Butkovic and his associates, so I will express my dissatisfaction with the fact that you have brought us into this situation as a representative in the Croatian Parliament. We are today discussing an emergency procedure in this law, which concerns almost all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. From those who use transportation services to those who give them. Of course, not getting into the fact that there are good provisions and bad ones in this law. But why did that happen? This problem has been going on for a very long time, it's being talked about, and the taxi drivers have been protesting, so why have you waited so long? The public debate was held, I see correctly, there are a lot of remarks, however, whether this could have been done despite the studies you've been doing, whether this could have been done long before, to avoid this situation, that now before the tourist season itself we are talking about it under emergency procedure and whether people will have time to prepare for the season itself, given what the law requires them to do, and that is to issue both permits and licences and all they need to have to do this job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80581	Thank you for the response of the esteemed Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80582	Your Honor, it always could have been before. I agree with you, but we have worked very hard on this law and there has been a wide public debate and working groups etc. And we didn't just process this bill and car taxi ride. There were other things, which you also commended to be good at law. The emergency procedure is because we are approaching the tourist season, the riot is on the ground, and we believe that by passing this law, and with the aim of paying the citizens cheaper and making the taxi more accessible, we will do exactly the opposite of what you said. We want this law to make taxis, repeat, cheaper and more accessible to citizens. This law did not go in order to go against the citizens. So the intensity, the legislator here, the government and the ministry was exactly the opposite. As far as procedures are concerned, existing car taxi carriers will be extended for five years. So they won't have to go beyond procedure, like the others who will be new.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80583	Thank you. I need to correct you, the intensity, the promoter, this is a legislative body. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80584	Dear Vice President, you spoke of liberalisation, none of us here, of course, are against it, or we all advocate liberalisation, of course, under the same conditions for everyone on the market, that should be so, on every regulated market. Also, what some colleagues have already mentioned during their discussions, with an emphasis on the safety of our citizens, I think it is for all of us, and I hope it is in your interest. What I would ask as a question of liberalisation and that, I may agree that it is not good, that mayors and mayors determine how many cab drivers there will be in a particular area, but we have certain objections, for example. from Dubrovnik from the mayor of your party that it will create chaos on Dubrovnik streets. So has the ministry thought about it and how does this problem deal with this liberalisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80585	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80586	Your Honor, the liberalisation of the car taxi market is going in two directions. The first is that the auto taxi carrier will be able to carry out transport in the area and those local units of self-government which sees its economic interest etc. If we go into liberalisation we couldn't limit and say certain cities would be able to limit the number of permits, knew or go into liberalisation or not. If we want to go into liberalisation, and we want to, I repeat for a reason but that everyone has the same rules, like you said, there are no exceptions then we said that cities and municipalities will no longer be able to determine the number of permits in their area, and that's the goal. The crowds, there's no need to be afraid of the crowd, there's gonna be crowds and there's gonna be crowds. This can also be solved by mayors through traffic solutions and through a whole series of proposals within their own city, or their local units or municipalities that lead to these crowds being reduced. We can't say we won't go into liberalisation, we won't make a more affordable and cheaper taxi because there's gonna be a crowd in one city. We need to do everything we can to make sure they don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80587	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80588	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. The county liner transport and public transport in local self-government spoke about the availability and preservation of life in rural areas. Did we predict here that units of local self-government will probably need to subsidise that public transport to carriers because they can't find an economic calculation when the county or local self-government makes a network where the line should go, so the public carrier definitely can't find an economic calculation. Is there an opportunity for local self-government to subsidize such transport and thus solve this part of the availability and preservation of life, the improvement of life in rural areas?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80589	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80590	Very briefly, Your Honor. Countys determine, and no one defends the county or the cities and municipalities to subsidize such transport, so absolutely this law opens that possibility and solves the problem, precisely with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80591	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivin Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80592	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with their associates. Representatives of the associated taxi carrier at HGK radio taxi, eco taxi, Dubrovnik Taxi Association, Radio taxi Split at the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure have submitted about five thousand remarks, proposals on the draft of the Transport Act. The biggest dispute over the position and opinion is that it is favourable to a foreign company or Uber company. Were their comments founded or were they liberalising a market that is perceived as a pity to their interests and citizens' interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80593	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80594	Your Honor. I repeat once again, so this law introduces the same rules for everyone. No one's comfortable, no one's privileged over the other. Here the only one who is privileged and who should have benefits from this law are our citizens who should pay and have to pay cheaper car taxis. Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80595	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80596	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. Like counterpart Hrg, however, you said here that local self-government units here with a liberal market have no more influence. I'll tell you one example, you've got a number of villages, settlements of a high-end, cetin area where I come from where no transportation is organised, you say you're going to subsidize the unit of local self-government, but these local self-governments don't have enough resources, or have an interest in those non-performable lines because simply private people don't want to drive there. So you here have to predict this demographic possibility of survival of these people having an organized transport, that's first. And the second is very important safety and how you will be the safety of passengers and the other crowds, is in Split all will be at the port and Split Airport. Who's gonna be at the hospital, and how are you gonna organize that one? So you should at least have some kind of impact on these hospitals, schools and Taksi facilities there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80597	The answer of the respected Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80598	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, as far as this first part of your issue of micro transport is concerned, this is precisely the law that gives us the opportunity to give local self-government the opportunity to introduce this kind of transport in rural areas. We can't by this law and we can't regulate the financing of such a transport, it's not within the scope of this law. I agree that local self-government doesn't have enough, they all don't have enough resources to finance it even though, I'm just going to brief the tax redistribution of 1.1. have many cities and municipalities in such areas got some funding. Okay, I agree and I accept. As for the second part, I repeat, we are going to liberalise the market on equal terms for everyone. Our goal is a cheaper and more accessible taxi to our citizens. As for the crowd, let's not be afraid of the crowd. This law will not produce that everyone in Croatia will today be engaged in a taxi ride and that these people will not be as many and as many as I count.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80599	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80600	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers, respected secretary of state and representatives of the ministry. My colleagues and colleagues. So it's about one law that is extremely important for, we can say for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it's important for those citizens who live in rural areas, and so am I, one of them, and also for those citizens who live in cities, as well as in tourist centres. From the point of view of rural spaces or what needs to be covered by this law, I will say it later, we have a lot of praise about the very amendment or the proposal of this law, however, from the point of view of the regulation or liberalisation of services transport services to the Republic of Croatia, and we have had a number of laws so far, such as the law on the liberalisation of the rail market. We have constant remarks because we don't think there's enough time or space left to talk about these topics any more studiolikely. We also resent the ministry that, after all this time, this law comes by emergency procedure to the Croatian Parliament. In fact, the economic definition conditioned two key, key directions for the development of an individual economy. It is that the landlord offers the service he is educated for, which has knowledge, experience, some means, a tradition that he can offer on the market. And then he on that market has to be competitive to succeed, that's one segment. The second segment is if there is not a very market for services it offers, then it must monitor the market and develop those services that the market requires. It's a different form. However, today, with the development of the digital market, with the development of so-called "the digital market". The sharing economies have come up with new forms that bring us back a little bit, let's put it this vividly, at a time when people used to exchange a good trade. So once the treasure was worth the exchange of goods, the treasure is still called in many areas today, animals are called treasure because it was the way of exchange. Later people developed mechanisms to delay the trade, so money came up and everything that came out of the money, so not only did they delay the value of the trade, but they could also increase it with certain mechanisms, and then we see how it ends when things like that don't control the Agrokor case. But let's get back to the law itself. This is where it really appeared, people who saw the transport service, the supply of transport, those who needed it, could improve with technological achievements. So there are certain applications in which one who has a means of transport can offer to one who needs the means, that means. And it started to work, people got a cheaper service, but what happened? The business was outside the legal framework, so the law did not foresee in this direction itself, and I understood the criminal application filed against the minister by the cab driver's association, I think it was a criminal application, because it did nothing because certain companies were operating under the law. What the ministry needs is, in fact, to make efforts, but not just the Ministry of Transport, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the competent ministries, to use this technological development for our own benefit. So the Ministry of Economy must also be involved because if new actors appear, if new ways of offering services to the Republic of Croatia, which this law now regulates, then the existing ones must, as we say, enable traditional service providers to develop them to use it as their advantage. We welcome certainly that units of local self-government cannot limit the amount, the number of carriers that will actually get permits for the simple reason why the public is very sensitive and we have heard here in replicas that there is reasonable doubt that certain local self-government leaders are eligible for certain legal entities and therefore it is good that the number of carriers is not limited because in this way we will be able to achieve a favourable competition. As for the newspaper that introduces this law, which is a microtransport, he should be particularly welcomed. There are areas rural where there is no interest in any form, linear mode of transport and, in that sense, local self-government units now have the possibility, whether they finance it, whether they finance it in another way, but to solve the problem of the inhabitants in rural areas and, of course, they should be commended for the possibility of public line transport subsidisation of public line transport, the same for those areas that are not economically interesting to those who seek concessions or other way of contracting public transport services. What we cannot possibly avoid, and there have been talks and when we adopt the Law on the liberalisation of railway services, we see here and the law provides for an integrated form of transport, there will be really powerful players in the transport market, here is the deutschebundesman, it is not a secret, they have everything from train to bicycle, they can offer anything as a transport service and we will not be able to prevent further liberalisation, or it is fate for us as members or EU Member States. But what we can do is certainly through the competent Ministry of Transport, bringing such a framework legally, encourage other ministries to help all of our legal and physical entities who will try to survive in this market, so to speak. Here's why, just one remark, and it's about the very process of gaining professional training, so this little bit of it all seems a little bit funny when you're avoiding the word course and it's called an accelerated education. Imagine, now, that if in the Law on Education and Education, Article 69 provides for compulsory transportation, insurance of local units, in fact the founder of the transport of primary school students to schools if it was written in that article 69. The Law on Education and Education that the Minister will regulate the appearance, age and other technical conditions of the vehicle to drive the students. That was kind of weird and funny. We have to ministers, we have the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, we have the Law on Professional, Pardoned Act on Agency and Professional, and on adult education. And you are now again in the regulation of this law editing the way in which this education and test centres are implemented as if we cannot solve it with an existing school system. What exactly is this about? On the one hand, we try to make it easier for their entrepreneurs, to say their expenses, to cut down on the administration, but we are introducing it again. Because the point of the whole story is again that someone has to charge for it and it will be charged by the users. You probably also said to the Ministers of Dimming that now the cheapest license is 300%, it can't be 300%, it's clear but the ministry has to make it possible and that's the whole... Governments to allow entrepreneurs to survive as easily as possible on the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What people wanted to show on the market daily is one of the problems with licenses. There are 7 types of passenger transport in internal road transport and only 3 types of licences. And that creates confusion with the carrier but also with the inspector on the ground because they don't actually know what license they'd be asking the carrier for. What is important is to mention when we talk about this bill and the question of when it will come to life because we are primarily a tourist country, our large part of GDP is based on tourism revenues. And in this sense, we should really think about integrated transport as one of the forms of transport that can be brought to life during tourism because what we witness every year in our tourism sector is very busy and Croatia could be able to, if this law had already predicted that it would be one of the tasks of this law for the development of the economy Croatia could use it, and let's say by advertising annual vacation without car. Then this legislative proposal would make sense, then it wouldn't be that concern that my colleague Bulj mentioned in his question when he said how much it would be, or how busy it would be, how busy it would be in Dubrovnik, how much a transport permit would actually be there. And then people rightly wonder if they'll be able to survive both the end and the survival of those carriers and the roads themselves. It is clear that where there are more tourists there will also be a greater interest in obtaining permits and where it is less will not. In my case, let's say this problem won't be with licenses, probably no one's going to ask for a taxi license, but where there's an interest there's going to be that. So what is important as a message to the ministry that more participates and more cooperates with other forward ministries, to observe strategies as part of, all strategies actually develop the economy, so development of tourism, here development and transport as a whole, and that there are no derogations there, because then we will reduce the risks that are now emerging and the fear that our taxi drivers are experiencing that this law will actually have to close their trades because exactly the tendency has to be to allow through the Ministry of Economy and through this ministry these craftsmen to operate as easily as possible and to make it easier to survive on the market but of course that market reduces the price and that our citizens have a cheaper price. In the end, the job you took isn't easy, the job is done. I think there's a lot of good solutions, but again, I'm sorry to have had no more time for us to get involved. We only, we MPs can include in this phase, it's a phase when we need to get involved and it would be good if then there were two readings that we could, our suggestion is that you could still respect it. This is how we will have to go with the amendments, and based on this and the debate that is being held here, and based on the amendments that we are going to make and your response to these amendments, we will also take our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80601	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80602	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, State Secretary, Associates. We have before us the Law on road transport and we have first and second reading. For the beginning of this debate, I would somehow lead in the usual way as others, so I would say that this is a really good way to make sure that the resolution minister is in this assembly. We have a chance to see really a series of laws when the Secretary of Resort doesn't have one. With his arrival, the minister shows two facts. One fact that he cares about what the MPs will say, what he will hear in the debate, and another fact that it is an extremely important law behind which he stands and is ready to answer all the questions that will be asked. I understand, and I have to say that we rarely and really need to be fair, we rarely get laws in the procedure that first and second reading is, usually the laws in the first, and then behind that in the second reading, and sometimes we say they could be. The same is true of a law that had been in public debate for a long time, the law that was discussed and the main issue of the media debate was about taxi transport. This law regulates, I'd say roughly three subjects. One topic is to regulate transport of the market, another topic is how to access the market in road transport of freight and passengers. The third topic is to actually edit all of this or maybe simplify it, so I say that the first topic is to liberalise the market, the second topic and the microtransport and the third topic is integrated transport. Likewise, when any law relating to road transport is discussed it is good to know the next fact and I will repeat it every time and there is something we have to do. In 2011, a strategy was adopted on how to reduce road transport, i.e. road transport by 2020, where the obligation prescribed by the EU directives to be killed in road transport, i.e. all modes of transport are reduced to 50%. This was for the Republic of Croatia that in 2020 there should be 213 killed in road transport. And it all went smoothly from 2016 to 2016. In 2017 something happened, so in 2016, 307 people were killed in road traffic, and it was less and less on a regular basis every year. In 2017 it was 331 and data for the first quarter of 2018 exactly as it was in 2017. When you're discussing road traffic at all, then the reason for that is, of course, the first and the primary man, then what we're driving by and what we're driving by, so let's simplify it. So vehicles that are in road traffic and infrastructure quality. I think that the situation of the indicators is already such that through further analysis, through follow-up, the ministry needs to see a little what happened here, what happened and that in time we react, and in the context of this is extremely important and that provision that will be related to the age of the vehicle, or to the age of traffic that will be used in taxi transport. The first topic is market liberalisation. So someone who's in a party called the Civil Liberal Alliance is absolutely clear to you what to stand for. It will be advocated for market liberalisation, will also be advocated for clearly defined conditions, will be advocated for the possibility that everyone participates and that our citizens can do certain jobs, but that conditions are clearly prescribed and that these conditions do not differ. The worst thing that can happen to you if you have one part unregulated on the market, as we have at this point and that you have different types of unfair competition. So we are absolutely in favour of being the same conditions for all, that the elements are clearly defined. It's no wonder it's caused so much public attention. Something we've had a chance to see in the last year or even in two years when we intensified the UBER transport and actually whether the UBER problem was solved on the road. It's what's worst that can happen, that people are physically solving the problem, that they're attacking each other, that cars are pounding, that uber drivers are being followed, so it's not good for the street or the road to solve that problem. This problem must be addressed by legislative frameworks. And now we come to the point of whether in this law everything is best defined and best written and who it pleases or doesn't suit. There will be several amendments in that sense where we will seek some improvement. Likewise, every law should be considered as follows, no law passed in this House should be considered but in the beginning that it is carved into stone so that any change in the law is a new stone again, a new engraving. So I'm always up for an option to let in a certain change, a certain law, and then life itself will see what's possibly good or not good. Today we are, in fact, what we see is next. If you ever win in certain municipalities or cities of concession, there you should have of course acquaintances, the best knowledge is having with the mayor. That the number of these approvals is regulated by a certain number, that it even wants to define a certain amount, when people started using taxi transport more? Because in this way, let us be honest and facilitate public transport when this price has become available and there is no need to look, only we always look at the big city, we watch Zagreb, then of course we watch Dubrovnik which is in the tourist season, regardless of the additional possibility of taxi transport will be an absolute collapse and we must be aware of it because everyone with their pet wants to come to the very center of town. Some cities solve this in another way, I have not yet had a chance to see it in Croatia, and these are large free parking lots at the entrance to the city where you leave your car and have a continuous public transport that drives you to the city center, in the price of that transport and these tickets to go and return to you and parking in that parking lot. It's one of the models that works in other cities, so it would be good if the cities recognized it a little bit. However, the theme we are returning to is market liberalisation. It should be really clearly defined, clearly prescribed in time to adapt, acquired rights are, of course, always acquired rights and should be taken into account. There is a story in the town of Zagreb, and of course I will take an example of that city I live in, which is that taxi drivers, for example, can't get to Dolco, can't get to the part of Jurisic, can't come to Jelačić Place because it's like a ban on coming and taxi drivers for reasons not to be too many and not too much traffic. Then when you have our fellow citizens who are in years and who live in that part, and you know that the old population lives with that head, without wanting to offend anyone, go to the hospital, go home from the hospital, the cab driver can't get him where he is or the lady or the gentlemen are going with Dolca and call a cab to take them home, it's impossible in certain parts, and there's no one, and I've asked the mayor for an answer, there's no excessive answer. So liberalization, defining clear criteria and clear conditions, it is no wonder to me that all taxi drivers have been involved because of the unknown there is always one particular fear, but it is always important to have this participation and conversation with both associations and individuals for the simple reason that you can always resolve some recommendations there. The second topic is micro transport. Let's be honest and say the following. When you move away from Zagreb which has 800,000 inhabitants or when you move from Osijek which is in the continental part or along the sea is more interesting during the summer, so these are cities that repeatedly exceed the number of inhabitants, there is a problem everywhere else. The problem is for the simple reason, that there are absolutely no carriers in this world, which in any way would be profitable, that with one big bus they leave 3 or 4 people. And here, this proposal should be commended for trying to find a solution. Of course, it always takes a few participants to make a deal, but this way you open up certain possibilities, you open up certain possibilities, and that's what I'm talking about in a few spins, from this pay phone and in this assembly, and that's sustainable development. What is sustainable development? Sustainable development is that you, a child who lives, now not to mention, any place, say in Slavonia, that no one finds himself offended, allow the same, approximately, you can never allow the same, but about the same conditions of life, as there is a child in large cities. Something they have the same are your cell phones. When you see a cell phone no matter where it lives, the kids have the same cell phones. But unlike a child, who can easily get to his school and regardless of using public transportation, they have children who can't do it. Which, to get to school takes 2 to 3 hours, to get back from that school equally. I believe that one solution and recognition of the problem is micro transport. Here again we come up with a topic that would be good to think about, which is that however county, they talk to their municipalities and cities and that in some kind of joint cooperation, which may not be formal consent, but I kind of advocate for form, it is always the safest, to come up with the right solution, because where the problem is, of course, the mayors of the municipalities, i.e., the mayors of cities and there should be one joint co-operation. And third subject, integrated transport. My dear colleagues and colleagues, the whole of Europe and all the cities in Europe that want and deal with their development and that traffic read as economic development, like all other types of development have something called integrated transport. We have it as a dead letter on paper. There is even a company in the City of Zagreb, i.e. a company that was founded to deal with integrated transport. And when you do a little traffic in the City of Zagreb and you ask what they're doing and you ask people who do it there, so there's no confusion there, there's employees who did it, and there's a little problem here. So they have a problem that's not the law, so they have a problem, which has no strategy, the problem is always in your head and in your decision. No law, no strategy, no action plans could have been realized. We know that the City of Zagreb is a place of attraction, that the City of Zagreb has certain jobs, that in the City of Zagreb it is from large, therefore, our citizens who live in Velika Gorica, and then who live in St. Ivan Zelina, not to list some of our esteemed parliamentary representative and president of HSS, as well as citizens of Samobor and integrated transport is something that is minimal, which can simply be solved. You pay for the transport, and those carriers that participate, according to how much they are shared from that transport and agreed in advance. So, if you want to be able to, it's just a question of whether or not you want to be in the end line, yet you want to harass our citizens and show that it's something terribly important, so they, once upon a time I went from Velika Gorica to Zagreb, the fact is that these opportunities are always, where you somehow try to show the absurdity of the system, is of course in some pre-election campaigns. And then I'm thinking actually that they're lying to me, that they're joking, but you're taking the brother-in-law on the bus, but in one part, I've forgotten now, not to say wrong, there's one place where you have to whistle that same card again, or put it, because in a different way, it's being calculated. If someone came to you from a town in Europe, you'd think it was a hidden camera. Those hidden cameras aren't, it's a real situation. Integrated transport is one way to make life easier for our citizens, to do what we have to do all the time, not all have to come and live and pay dearly for housing in cities, so that they can do so in the nearby or further surroundings of cities. That we have to enable them not only to be safe and fast, but not to really lead them into all this madness and all the payments that regardless of whether the citizens are paying him directly or paying him his employer is something that is insane and something that is not necessary. In that sense, we appreciate that it is good, that it is also this provision in this law. The fact is that any law, which brings any newspaper to us and challenges public attention and upsets the public, there will also be several amendments that I appreciate will allow for simpler implementation, then, a clearer statement of this law and of acceptance, that is, the rejection of these amendments, will depend on our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80603	Thank you very much. I have a need to say something, colleague Mrak Taritash mentioned the urgency of the proceedings, and some colleagues had previously spoken in the replicas of the minister the urgency of the procedure, I draw attention to the fact that it is a law of the category P.Z.E., therefore, by definition it is urgent, it is not something special, and it is not something different from other P.Z.E. The law. Here, now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, we will speak to the esteemed representative, Hajdas Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80604	Good afternoon, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Road Transport Act itself, I can argue, is good, therefore, that it has covered all segments of road transport and that it has taken into account, I will say something, which is everyday, so that is digitisation and that is, in fact, the technologies that we all serve. I'm not going to limit myself to the most mentioned form of transport because there are a lot of those in Europe, so this is just about apps. But what I'm supposed to be at, but I'm not saying within the framework of this law, but working together and with the Ministry of Finance finds some solutions because it's not quite possible for you to get 25% of the commissions of applications that have been reported in Amsterdam in the Netherlands because it's not fair for people who drive to say so and who have a fundamental working relationship with that basis. The liberalisation of competition, the price of taxi service falls, which we also support, and perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, see if the persons involved in the taxi transport of any app, does not matter whether they need to be seen especially through the regulation you mentioned, whether there is a possibility that they may be reduced by a part of the excise duty or any other duty to restore their actual general fleet. We're going to have a few amendments, and now I'm actually going to make them, so maybe if you have time to change some of your own things about liberalisation rather than the other part of the law. Therefore, the first remark is Article 4(6), meaning the definition of the rental of a vehicle with a driver. In my opinion, and in the club's view, you're stricter because you've put that kind of transportation down to only the highest-class vehicle like a limousine. In practice, users do not use these most expensive luxury vehicles but also medium-class vehicles, so we will propose an amendment that would enable this and make this type of transport more accessible to users or citizens. So a little bit would still lower the vehicle category, not just for Mercedes and BMW to be very plastic. Also in the same article under point 36. so I am speaking Article 4 is defined as the specific transport of pupils. In our opinion, it is not good that special line-carrying of pupils can only be established in case there is no relevant classic line transport. We will also propose an amendment that would allow the establishment of specific line transportation of students from and to school in case there is an appropriate public line transport. A unit of local or regional i.e. regionally, and this is the county’s view that special line transport of students should be organised in its area. In this way, our opinion is to ensure greater safety of children, as well as better timing of driving to school with instruction. So that's where we should go towards the children's interests, not exactly the bus drivers and their profitability. I'm sure that's what's most important to me. Furthermore, Article 51(1) therefore defines the way in which passengers are transported by road and tourist train, freight vehicle or other road vehicles, we believe that a municipality or city should decide, not a county, because of the forms of transport that... are carried out in the area of a city or municipality, so it is logical that such transport is approved by local self-government units, not regional self-government. County. And in the end, what's really most speculative to me, which is the question of the station and the obligation for the transporters to be used by the station if they're built. So, in our view, because of the flexibility of transport in shorter relations or on local character lines, we do not necessarily think that it is necessary to force carriers to the bus station because it prolongs driving time, and one of the characters of shorter lines is to be faster and less demanding times for passengers. Of course, it's also an environmental aspect because the bus is less driven. So we suggest that it be an appropriate 40km limit, in today's law it's 50km,... 40km. And more or less that's it. We generally have some remarks... which I said if you adopt one part of the remark and the club will vote positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80605	Thank you. The next club of MPs who called for the debate is the HSS Representatives' Club, on their behalf, will speak MP Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80606	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. Here on behalf of the HSS Club we can say that this law that is really comprehensive is important for the operation of traffic in the Republic of Croatia, but above all that has been taken care of and should be taken care of by passengers' safety. We know that this law and laws of this kind and laws are regulated and that economic activity is regulated in transport, but it also has an important impact on the safety of passengers, transport primarily children, students, students and on this side we will have certain objections. Of course, we all find it strange that the main reason for this law to be passed in an emergency procedure is that the minister announced that it should be brought before the tourist season, so in the opinion of the HSS Club, it is not important that the law be passed before and as soon as possible, rather than that it should be as comprehensive and comprehensive as possible, to be enforceable on the ground and to be just for everyone. We see that in the debate over this law there has been a lot of controversy and that the profession has also made a lot of criticism in the public debate. There have been more than 6,000 comments in the public debate and the main remarks that have already been made here, but here I will repeat it on behalf of the club that this part of the amendments granting permits that taxiists could be violated by the new law and that, above all, we need to protect domestic entrepreneurs and craftsmen, that the business of certain companies that are not registered in the Republic and do not pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia, but on the other hand, of course, we are in the interest that the citizen also has cheaper transportation from point A to point B. And therefore the announced cost of services in taxi transport is going in the direction that citizens have a cheaper service. However, in order to avoid this decision and to lead to the position that most of the crafts are being turned off after a year because we will have a situation that in the tourist season you will have increased pressure on the municipalities and cities in Dalmatia and Istria where additional licenses for taxi transport will be sought and there will be a terrible competition, and in a certain way threaten the danger of riots on the ground, since domestic taxi drivers will certainly be against it. It takes the right of the local self-government unit to define in its area how many taxis there are, in this way here and we are going to counter the decision on decentralisation and descent to units of local self-government to regulate this area by our decisions, and on the other hand, we are putting those who are now working in Dalmatia on those 3 or 4 months, how long the tourist season, an increased number of transportation and higher income and practically cover that part of the winter months when they do not have that job. There will now be terrible pressure in the summer months from other areas on these cities and municipalities to grant permits. We will have, though cheaper probably then, and the transportation of these people, but will we have the same quality service? Because only a local man can give the right information about the city, about the cultural offer, about the gastro offer, while the man who will come to Split for 3 months will certainly not be able to provide such a service, and in a certain way we will be worse on the tourist market than we were, since the domestic taxi drivers had also passed exams and gave all those instructions that the passenger in that transport had the opportunity to get. So in this work we certainly do not support the law and that there is still a need to sit with interested people and primarily protect domestic craftsmen and entrepreneurs and thus regulate this part of the transport. When it comes to the transport of county lines, the transport of primary and secondary school students, of course we support the introduction of micro transport as a public transport because of the less populated places. We already had an announcement this year in Osijek County 32 lines will not be driven because the carrier who has the pass is not interested, there are no passengers, and on the other hand we have an obligation to ensure our high school students have the opportunity to reach their school. So one part of it can certainly be solved with these micro-transports. We in the boat-posavia County have already done so for a municipality, we have this good experience, but there has already been an observation that the county still needs to agree and needs with local self-government units, so with municipalities and cities it can't even be decided by the county itself. Of course, we expect that a final decision will be made whether we finance high school transport, our students throughout the year and in the future because it will depend a lot on whether a child will be able to go to high school and one disproportionate that we have so far in ticket prices, that the student cards, because that salary ministry was 1200 kn, and for the same route the working card is a monthly 400 kuna. We must also make the same order and allow children to have a ride to school and that the price of the transport ticket is justifiably high or low, i.e. to be economically sustainable for the carrier and, on the other hand, to be acceptable to the student and the family, or his parents. Of course, we should definitely go towards those countries that have gone a step forward in the organisation of transport, through integrated transport, through the organization to get us into cities, so now we have an example in Zagreb, do not come to the centre of the city cars to do so, as Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash said, organizes with large free parking lots at the entrance to the city, and then cheap public transport to the city centre. It is also necessary to consider better stimulating the purchase of cars with less CO2 emissions and, of course, electric cars and that Croatia can do more to ensure better quality transport for citizens, cheaper cars that are less polluting, and, on the other hand, to ensure clean air and citizens here in Zagreb and citizens in Slavonska Brod, and there is certain that we need to make another step more in cross-border traffic, our border crossings are on weekends, especially when holidays are suppressed and here in the light of Schengen, and I expect that through one co-operation and agreement with neighbouring countries, we will have to ensure that these passengers have even more congestion and bumps, and in Slavonski Brod and in the Old Town and there are certain that through one co-operation and agreement with neighbouring countries we must ensure better traffic flow, and on the other hand we ensure that they will be able to stay at these crossing points, as easy as necessary and the need to be able to stay here, while they are safe, while they are safe. And that's where we're looking for more quality regulation, and this way, given that there's been a lot of objections and that we're supporting these requirements of taxi drivers, we're not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80607	The HDZ advocates' club also reported for participation in the debate. In their name will be spoken by MP Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80608	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The new Road Transport Act regulates an important economic, social and social issue, which is to establish an efficient, accessible and cost-effective public road transport of freight and passengers, which is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the entire social community. The whole law is set out in a way that provides everyone on equal terms with access to the transport market, to allow for business freedom for all road transport operators and to establish clear rules for the mutual relations of participants in the transport process with a view to making road transport more accessible, better quality and cheaper. The adoption of this law will also allow the implementation of the Transport Development Strategy for the Republic of Croatia from 2017 to 2030 in the part of road transport of passengers and freight and other activities in the road transport sector. The takeover of the European acquis in part of road transport of freight and passengers will also be carried out. I must highlight several solutions that we consider to be the most important in this law and that it will have the greatest positive effects on the whole society. First of all, it is about organising a public liner county transport of passengers on the basis of public service contracts that the county will sign with carriers and thus allow the counties to directly form a network of bus lines based on transport needs in their territory, and to ensure through the provisions of the public service contract from the termination of lines or departures without prior analysis of the real situation as it was recently in Osijek-Baranja County. Thus, the current system of arrangement of the county liner transport of passengers has shown itself ineffective by means of transport licences for the reasons that the carriers themselves set timetables, and have proposed changes to the timetables, while the counties had almost no impact on the carriers in terms of defining the obligation to carry public liner passenger transport, especially on those lines and on those departures on which the demand for transport services was lower. The public service contract for the transport of passengers in the county liner, in accordance with EU Regulation 1370/2007, which is fully transferred to the Croatian legal system, will enable the granting of exclusive transport rights and the subsidisation of transport by the competent authorities of the counties and the state where necessary, to enable better control of the spending of funds which are now spent primarily on co-financing of the transport of secondary school pupils and the financing of the transport of primary school pupils. This Law will also allow students of primary primary schools to be transported by public line transport which will rationalise transport itself and increase its efficiency, and through the harmonisation of the tariff system at the level of all the counties that we expect after the entry into force of this Act, we believe that for the same service, prices will be evened at the state level that the state pays and instead of the current differences, large differences in prices between counties. We can easily conclude that public line transport, based on public service contracts at county level, will be able to drive together different populations of passengers, primary schools, high school students, pensioners as well as other citizens, and in this way we will certainly have more profitable, more regular and safer bus lines. We also welcome the introduction of micro transport that will allow quality public transport and transport connections in less populated areas and will make a direct contribution to stopping the population from moving to rural areas, which are now very often completely traffic-insulated. The introduction of micro transport also opens up the possibility of new employment or additional work for our citizens, e.g. a registered craftsman or entrepreneur after obtaining a license for micro transport and work permits will be able to transfer passengers by means of a personal car and van, thus ensuring their income, and, on the other hand, accessible and affordable transport to different populations of passengers from less and less traffic-related places. The integrated transport of passengers is a new institute regulated by this Law which connects road, rail and water transport into one system, will allow for more efficient and cheaper public transport, which will be organised and implemented by modelling the good practices of other EU transport-developed countries that we need to be a role model in this area. Namely, the alignment of the timetables with the unique, means a single ticket will allow for the integration of different transport branches through a unique tariff, technological, organisational system and this is major progress. We must all work together to bring integrated transport to life as it is in Europe and the world. With us, when it comes to road and water traffic, there are no major problems about the timetable and the discipline and respect of that timetable. However, in rail transport, if we look at it at the level of the whole state, we cannot say it too, because we know that rail infrastructure is quite detached, both it is mobile, the speeds of transport are quite low, there are great deviations from the timetable, but here are the great investments in rail infrastructure, in fixed, means building and modernising railways and other facilities on that railway track, and here is soon the 4th railway package, that is the liberalisation of passenger transport that will allow both supply and new equipment meaning those mobile infrastructures, trains and wagons, and so that this will be a significant contribution to the establishment of integrated transport of passengers at the country-wide level. However, in the suburban lines, these three forms of transport work well, and we know that a lot of people come to Zagreb with bus, train, and then tram, but they also have to buy more tickets every day to get to work. This Law will provide a single ticket for all three modes of transport, both faster and more efficient passenger transport. The HDZ representative club supports the liberalisation of car taxi transport as part of public passenger transport. Here I stress three very important newspapers, which are the introduction of an electronic app that the passenger can order car taxi transport in such a way that he is familiar with the itinerer of travel and travel price. Another possibility is that carriers, regardless of where their business headquarters or residence in the Republic of Croatia are carrying out car taxi transport wherever they see their business interest. And thirdly, that these carriers can carry out car taxis without being able to limit the number of permits by local self-government units. By accepting the offer of a forward direction of travel and the price of travel via an electronic application already used by most car taxi carriers or their associations, a passenger with a car taxi carrier shall enter into a distance transport contract and know in advance what amount it will end up paying at the end of the journey and which route it will travel by. We expect that the possibility of connecting such applications with fiscal cash registers through which a car taxi fare must be issued, will strengthen the fiscal discipline of the carrier and, of course, the tax revenues from the payment of the transport service. The ability to operate a car taxi carrier in accordance with their business interest without limitation depending on the headquarters of commercial companies or the residence of craftsmen and without restrictions on the number of car taxi licenses per unit of local self-government will allow all carriers from the Republic of Croatia to have the same tax freedom guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so far. If they see their interest in certain car taxi carriers, for example from Slavonia, they will be able to work in another major city or at sea, which will make new employment possible and make another contribution to stopping emigration from Croatia for economic reasons. In short, it means that operating a taxi transport will have to be a license in the district office of the state administration, first register companies, a license and from local self-government, towns or municipalities where it is intended to work, a license will be requested to perform that work, the revenues from that permit go to units of local self-government, they are also defined by this law and there is a limit of the maximum price the city can charge that is 1/10 average salary of the place in which the licence is sought, for example, for example, for today it is the permit in Zagreb 1500 kuna and this will be about 700 to 800 kuna. I expect that the transport offer will eventually be brought into line with the demand so that due to the introduced legislative changes, we do not expect major changes in traffic in major cities and at sea. The tourist resorts in the summer months are too expensive, extremely high cost of accommodation, nutrition, especially when the family lives in another remote place, it is necessary if we are there for more than 3 months to report and stay, means having your own apartment, so that this liberalisation will certainly open up a space for new employment but here above all I think of the domicile population which, due to the existing limit, could not be engaged in car taxi transport until now and then, to a lesser extent, also for car taxi carriers from other remote parts of the Republic. The provisions of this proposal also lay down that car taxi carriers, for the purpose of boarding, can use passenger landings intended for vehicles of public transport and taxi stops, can use specially marked lanes which give them the advantage of movement so that no problems are expected in this part either. I also welcome the other positive measures adopted by this law, which is to regulate transport for my own needs, redefined places and the roles of bus stations, better availability and easier distribution of foreign licences for freight carriers and a number of other newspapers and improvement compared to the current regulation. The introduction of registration of transport for its own needs to state administration offices, depending on the seat and residence of the carrier, will be subject to more effective control by the competent authorities both in terms of easier control of the vehicle and of the driver and in the sense that carriers carrying out the transport for their own needs and which do not have a transport licence cannot unlawfully enter the public carrier, passenger or freight market and thus compete with public carriers. We welcome and strengthen the role of bus stations in a public transport system that will perform a monitoring function of transport, reporting to the competent authorities on observed irregularities, which will improve supervision and guarantee compliance with defined standards of quality of public transport and timetables themselves. Freight carriers will be able to take over all types of international transport permits in their county chambers, reducing their operating costs and increasing business efficiency. Namely, the ministry continues to reserve the right to both quotas and to issue those permits, but by way of this law, it will not have to go to Zagreb for the ministry to take over these permits, but it will do so in its county chambers of economy. And finally, we state that this law will ensure by its application that the ultimate goal is to ensure that the inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia, the guests during the tourist season and all other interested people are better, better quality, more accessible and cheaper public road transport of passengers and freight. The HDZ Club will therefore support the Final Proposal of the Road Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80609	The club of HNS representatives reported for participation in the debate, on their behalf will be represented by Representative Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80610	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There have been a lot of objections also through public debate on this bill and during the public debate itself, and especially after that, however, I believe that the right measures have been found, it is also primarily related to the implementation of certain EU practices and, as well, through public debate, some of the doubts raised in the public debate itself. What is acceptable to us is primarily better regulation of the market, especially as regards passenger transport. We were faced with a series of illogical and bad practices which were especially in certain parts of Beautiful Ours, then the liberalisation of the car taxi transport market, the possibility of introducing micro transport just as much as we can especially witness and we believe, in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of a single version, a new concept of public road transport of passengers where units of regional self-government will be able to regulate and respond to a series of needs of the citizens themselves for far more orderly and secure transport of their passengers. The current situation in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory, we are witnessing the elimination of a series of bus lines, of rail transport lines, the fact is that we are also looking at trains in certain semi-empty relationships, not to say empty, equally bus and the fact that a large number of companies have organised their own transports for their workers. I believe that this law will be able to solve these problems in some way and better quality. What is another newspaper is not a newspaper, as far as the concept or desire to be realized is integrated transport, which should now be on the threshold of a better, faster and more accessible transport of passengers to citizens. There is also what is possible, which so far did not have units of local self-government, so-called. micro transport, because we are witnessing just the abolition of certain current lines, at the county level, for incompetence, means that local self-government, as far as it can respond, will, of course, depend on the fiscal capacity of individual environments, so that it can provide certain transport and quality to its residents. There will probably be some arrangements, co-financing agreements, because if so far certain lines, which have been targeted, especially as regards the transport of workers, without co-financing, I believe that if new lines are reached at the county level, they will also have to be reached into the budget of local and regional self-government. But, look, it's a day's chance so who has the possibilities and needs I believe will react. What has one dilemma, one question, primarily this, means gaining the right to drive, Article 8, is about age, means middle-aged education of the driver, I know that up to 21 years of age, young drivers are, however, asking whether or not a compromise could be made here, because drivers, who finish and qualified are drivers and all together from the age of 18 will be able to drive certain categories of vehicles, which are C and CE, so they will have a certain break and will be able to manage practically, only by vehicle. It is a freight transport of C1 and C1E. I believe it's related to other laws. I suppose, if it was possible, that you would also classify it, because practically, there is a period of three years that makes it impossible to manage, and I don't see any reason why, if they have acquired qualifications, if they are qualified. Similarly, some other, larger issues, or, we do not have a dilemma, the HNS Club will support this bill, although it is quite extensive and would be believed, perhaps some of the more high-quality, longer debates, if it were, for example, a little more time, for his, to read it. One appeal, according to you ministers, although it is partly regulated by this bill, is particularly about transit transport, especially freight, to try, as much as it is in accordance with both the law and our practice and the European legislation, to place transit cargo on highways, primarily on highways and to get off state and county roads, as far as possible. Simply for reasons, which is why a large number of traffic accidents are happening on state roads right now. Take just the direction of the sub-level highway and some similar where the very dynamics of slowing down transport, the safety of transport, without saying, costing or so it could be expressed, the state roads, which are not exactly in the best condition, to prevent themselves, and of course, this would also increase the income of Croatian highways. I believe that this is the direction of thinking, but I am saying, as far as possible and as far as possible about European practice and certain perhaps sublegal acts, some things may not be more precisely defined by law. But here, this is our appeal, I believe we can all agree here and you will have full support if you succeed. Here, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80611	For individual participation in the debate, MP Miro Bulj reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80612	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished representatives of road transport associations. Here, we have before us a law that goes into first reading, which goes immediately in one reading,... go in 2 readings, because it's a very important law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is clarity that needs to be clarified and, of course, as said on behalf of the club, and I am the position that, based on this debate, which is not enough, we should have gone in 2 readings to listen to the suggestions that we have heard, both the parliamentary representatives and the public, because simply, above all, the most important safety in traffic is that there is no going on in our streets to be transported by us, our children. Those who have during the winter, summer tires, so it puts them in danger or you say that you will limit the car to traffic, but I will start with the most important things, which is demographic, the first issue of transportation in the demographic breakdown of Croatia, because the fact that in rural areas, which is also told you in the replica and certain colleagues, that bus lines, which are simply unreservable, are extinct and that is one of the key problems, the main problems, which is why people are moving out of these parts. I can transfer it to the region of Dalmatia, Dalmatian Zagora, that numerous villages simply and settlements,... The area, Cetinska krajina and Kninska krajina, Drniska simply do not have a secure transport to all settlements because no one wants to drive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've centralized all this with this law, you've left it on the market, but local self-government units can no longer influence. You say micro that there will be some kind of micro-line, the possibility that local self-government, however it should be legally defined, which is why, because examples in the Trillic area, or from the Dolva or from... The area, the carrier has no interest, someone has to subsidize it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You left the funding to local self-government here, and you took all the authority. So you took away your powers, you say micro-possibly, that you took away your powers why? Because they're going to have to co-finance, as they have so far, and they don't have enough funds. And transport is very important for those parts because we have less and less young people in these rural areas, all of these are older people where they have no insurance transport, have no vehicle and I believe that in this work, undeveloped, where no one shows interest in transporting, that they must play a role and co-finance countries. You can't disenfranchise, so of course you can legally release the market, and leave funding and co-financing to units of local self-government of non-performing lines. A line no one wants to carry. So that's one huge problem on the demographic issue and the issue of emigration, because who's going to live if there's no organised transportation, but these are beautiful villages, beautiful neighborhoods, and let's not make this law even worse and sell now catastrophic shit, you can very easily check it out. It's very important that when we talk about taxi transport, you liberalize this law. So you're liberalizing, you're enabling, but the same criteria are very important for everyone, that's the most important and the most important thing. Do you guarantee that by this law we will see from the debate. Of course, it is a very important price and that our citizens look at the price and availability most, but I will tell you again again, in Split, Dubrovnik, in the tourist season, there will naturally be a number of taxi carriers. It will happen that there will be some places where ports, where tourists are coming, where airports are going to be, there will be people waiting because there they can earn, the liberalized market of course. But what about hospitals? How local self-government will regulate, for example, at KBC Split's place to be? You got it. I speak to dotted problems, hospitals, other institutions, nursing homes, will they be there? Of course, even where there are more opportunities to earn, where there are more people, where there is greater potential, we will leave one chaos with institutions that are needs and undeveloped areas. I personally think and I will repeat this, the most important criteria are for all who will transport us citizens, to be trained the same and to be the same. That's two key things. It's being debated in public, we need to talk publicly, and you need to talk about it publicly, too, that with everything that citizens expect and what citizens support is that they have a lower price that they don't happen to be comfortable with someone. It is very important legally, you say that you do not favor anyone, who you are in contact with, whether in Croatia the state, but that is another law, will be paid by all taxi carriers? These are very important things that the public is opening and that we need to talk about here openly. I know that the interest of citizens here is as cheap as possible, but it is an interest to pay taxes in Croatia for all the same and to be in Croatia all the obligations they have to be paid in Croatia. So the criteria are important for all of them, which will carry taxi service, transport security and that the Croatian state has taxes of all alike. That money doesn't go away who knows where. These are the things that appear in public and I am free to open it, and you are obliged to explain it to the public, because you are also aware that you are talking about it, and I see no reason to keep it under the drawer, but to talk openly, and for these reasons I think you've gone too fast, that you rushed a little in one reading, this was supposed to go in two readings. It wouldn't mean anything for 15 days, 20 days to be well analysed by the law, because any anomalies and suggestions that you have to, you don't have to, but most of them in the House support, but I think that based on this read, we're going to give amendments and we're going to reanalyze both your answers and all your queries, and we're certainly going to be safety in traffic, the safety of citizens, that they have criteria for all who will be in the taxi service and the third thing that Croatia has no harm at all. It's very important, you mention railways, railways all over the system, road traffic, shipping. So we have worse and worse railways, we don't have investment in infrastructure, we have railways, let's be real ministers for making Western films the cutest, even that, insecure trains, sooner you'll walk from Split to Vinkovec and you're aware of it or to Zagreb, that all the slower and slower are our lines, the old and the infrastructure, in which we've talked about it, was your secretary when it was debated, it's commendable for binding everything to be complete and to be connected. However, the fact is that very little is invested by those stories that they will invest when we enter the EU, in the railways that we will be a system of railways, unfortunately we are not. That's what you're witnessing. What you're doing, I don't know, but I expect citizens to expect that rail traffic to be much more organised and much better. Here I was short, and as I said on behalf of the club we'll listen to this debate well, we'll give some amendments. I'm sorry it didn't go into two readings if it's a very important topic, it's about people who live on it, of course it's about those who get into this business, and first of all it's about traffic safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80613	Thank you. Representative Damir Mateljan has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80614	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You spoke about public transport on demographically devastationed areas, so public transport is a public service and as such in many ways marks the quality of life in a particular local space. As far as this public service is at a low level and as far as it has become non-universal, it is evidence that 15 years ago, more than 90 local lines have been abolished in Karlovac County, which means that today, in our Karlovac County, I come from, and 2% of the settlement is connected by public transport. This law, in part, corrects or has certain positive developments in terms of public transport at the surrounding level, however, when we know that some other laws such as the Proposal for a Law on the municipal economy prevents units of local self-government from setting up public undertakings that would just bypass this market share and could thus enable a higher level of municipal service, or in this case public transport than market companies could. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80615	Well, it's one of the key problems in rural areas, and you've well realized that more bus lines of the inerts have been shut down in rural areas than there are now, that's a fact. And the fact is, when you said we had laws that were discussed here in the Parliament, one doesn't give local self-government the opportunity to set up a company that would at least for those parts where no one wants to transport non-erable lines to establish, and here we bring in this law as micro-line that will allow. Simply local self-government will be bound by hands, and it will still be extinct by these parts without public transport in these areas secure, because it can't be on the market simply no one has any interest in transporting it, and the lines are shut down. So the legislator directly assists, there is no liberalisation, there is the triba to be organised transport and secure transport. This law, and it doesn't ensure it, and that's why there should have been two readings, because of these suggestions of yours and what I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80616	Thank you. The next replica from representative Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80617	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleague Bulj. I'm surprised at your presentation because you didn't listen to the minister's report. It is a law which through public consultation had more than 6000 questions, of which about 3,500 remarks via mail and 2865 through the office. So this is the law that has caused the public's greatest attention and a number of problems have just been identified here through these reform measures presented by the minister here today. It is precisely the purpose of providing equal conditions for all. I will mention only the reform of the linear transport of the passengers you are calling for, so far the carriers have determined where they will drive, where they will not, which is worth it to them, which is not so many of our villages and villages are left without public transportation. This makes it practically possible for local communities to fix it. So do you expect the state to determine in a village or have a situation where a huge bus takes three passengers to a section? It's the jurisdiction of local communities. So to mix here and talk about some other regulations that regulate some areas like summer tires and the like, I think it's completely lost and unspeakable to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80618	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80619	Thank you very much. Well, I listened well to Škorić, so it's just like you're an employee of the county roads and you're asking about Split's problems on the board of Split's traffic and entrances. So it's a failure, and you know it all, exactly. Monopoly which was also an inert line, which is an exemplified example in my cetin area, you don't see it coming sometimes when a tape is opened or when the elections are paved in and it was a monopoly and these non-erable lines are shut down. And directly if the state doesn't help local self-governments that don't have financials, for example. The city of Vrlika, which has no means to co-finance this law, contributes nothing. And we just heard that we have another law that we've been passing here that's completely hairy because local self-government can't start a transport company. And it shouldn't be a big bus, it might be a van, it may be, but the fact is that 90% of these villages don't have organised public transportation. I can list them for you, you don't know it, of course when you go outside Split you'll see that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80620	Representative Ivan Shuker has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with his associates. Probably in the near and near future, one law did not cause this much controversy in a public debate like this, but it is very interesting that what makes up practically 98.99% of public transport in the Republic of Croatia does not have a lot of obstacles at all, and today there was not even much debate about it because it was urban, suburban line transport. But what caused a lot of controversy and debate, frankly speaking I think Ministers that you had the courage to deal with something where there was a lot of confusion. So there was no problem with the taxi service, they had their provisions and their laws, but there were others who participated in the transport process. And what you said in your opening part, I want to discuss those items of yours. So, first of all, you pointed out that you want to liberalise the market and that's what it can certainly bring if the right instruments are used and the right tools can benefit those who provide services and those who use these services, so that's what's very important. Another thing I would like to point out, and later on when some of the provisions of certain articles are commented, which is that for what caused the most disputation in the public debate, you tried to set the same conditions for all those involved in providing these public services. There are certain misunderstandings and I'm going to point out first of all about Article 47 and 48, maybe some things should have been more clearly defined, but I'm saying here you had the courage to step into action because everyone before you were running away from it. Because the easiest thing to do is to throw the hot potatoes aside and leave those involved in the process to be sprayed. So you tried to catch up with it and you said the next thing. Change of this, actually this new law should lead to an increase in employment. And what is very important should lead to the price of those services provided, which are regulated in this law, to be more acceptable to those who use them. What I also want to say here is that, in practice, what is very important in this law and which has caused the most dispute in the public debate are the practical provisions of articles 14 to 23, where licences are regulated, where the conditions for obtaining licences are regulated. However, what is also very interesting and this is Article 15 of the conditions for obtaining licences and in internal transport where certain criteria are set. And I would just look back here at these financial abilities that I think might have been regulated in a different way. Because if we are talking about financial capacity then it is necessary to clearly define whether these are financial resources or whether they are having a basic means of carrying out their activities. Is it exactly the same thing or does it rule out each other or does it have to be the same thing? The second thing is, it is illogical that those who need more expensive vehicles to carry out certain activities should have less financial capacity than those who have less, that is the provision of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2. However, what is the biggest challenge, I will speak openly of it here, unlike many who today say with a manual what they say about it and that is what they most object to and what the taxi carriers are most troubled by, these are the provisions of Articles 47 and 48. And I'm just asking myself one question here, so Article 47(5), which says that units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb cannot limit the number of licenses issued in its area. Now there is one question that is being asked here because many colleagues have talked about something that is going to happen, let's say logically that from the continental part of Croatia in the tourist season many will go to work even though it is under one large questionnaire. However, this raises another question under one other law. You, when you are temporarily staying in one area, are obliged to report a temporary stay. And you have to register with the MUP and there's got to be some kind of record that you're staying here. You're actually a temporary resident. Now I don't understand if someone would, say, have a taxi license in Zagreb and now they want to go do it in Split, he has to report somewhere that he will be staying or staying in Split for the next two or three months and doing some kind of work and that it is some kind of basis for obtaining the permission issued by the local self-government unit in the area. Because one cannot come to an area for a long period of time without being recorded anywhere. For a million and one reason, not to repeat now, because that's the problem and the subject of another law. And if you noticed from the public debate what the taxi drivers suggested and what some colleagues in their debate were saying here but with a little delay and with hidden intentions and not openly. So I want to speak openly in this Article 47th paragraph because we in Croatia need to be aware that there is a so-called bound laws. In order to meet the needs of one law, you must satisfy certain things of the other law. Now the question is, can you stay in Dubrovnik for 3 months without reporting a temporary stay there? You can't. So that, too, has to be built in, and I think that's going to answer some questions that, because I don't think there's a lot of controversy between what you've had the courage to suggest and what the taxi drivers are looking for. I don't think there's a lot of wrinkles, but there's just a few things that work out. The second point of Article 48(1) says car taxi transport of passengers is carried out in a way that the carrier carrying out the activity of the car taxi transport is allowed to board passengers and to start transport only in the area of the unit of local self-government, i.e. the city of Zagreb for which he is authorised. And now that this Article 48(1) is compared to Article 47, what do I think if he has one vehicle, what happens to his permit to transport passengers to Zagreb at that time when he gets permission to transport passengers to Split, Dubrovnik or elsewhere? And the other thing, colleagues and colleagues, no one will come to Dubrovnik and Split to live on a tree, live on bread and salt and water, simply have to live, have the cost of living, and I don't think taxi carriers have such... So we can afford something like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's a series of things, a series of questions to talk about. And to conclude, Mr. Minister, I think you've had the courage to catch yourself with a hot potato, I think you should just define these things by referring to the provisions of other laws and then many of the provisions of this law will be clearer and more precise and I think it will solve some of the recommendations. And also what I'm saying, so according to the way we want to strengthen that kind of transport if we succeed in the Value Added Tax Act to install that rent-a-car companies and taxi drivers have, taxi carriers have the right to deduct 5 taxes, I think we should think about some different kind of excise duty given, and even co-financing and subsidisation so that in the city then we have what we want. And in the end, I want to touch something that unfortunately wasn't a lot of talk about it, which is suburban and city transport because I think at this point when we unfortunately only talk about HZ in a negative context, I think the potential of HZ and for profit and for aid in suburban transport is enormous. And if the great line Zagreb-Dugo Selo has proved to be 20 years old, which has solved many problems and is profitable, I do not understand why it is not done for the Zagreb-Vika Gorica line, for the Zagreb-Zaprešić line and the Samobor line without saying if we go down to Dalmatia that the bottom line of such a line is Split to practically Kaštela would solve many problems. So this law neither prevents or allows, it doesn't actually make it impossible, but I think we should also talk about it that's far more important. And, Mr. Minister, to conclude, I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the residence law with this article of Article 47(5), I think things will be very different then. I will support this bill of law and congratulations on your courage to deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80622	Thank you. Before we go with the replica, I would like to welcome one round of applause from the students of the Economic, Commercial, Restaurant and Samobor School who are now here at the gallery. There's a replica, it's from a representative of Gordan Maras, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80623	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, in your presentation, you looked back and congratulated the minister on courage but the minister did the only thing that was realistic at the moment when there is a situation in Croatia where 3000 people work in one area of service activities of passenger transport, he made it possible to put it in some normal frames and to sort of level the conditions on the market. So he had to do it because that under quotes, how you look at a problem, but for the vast majority of our fellow citizens, the benefits have come to pass for the past few years. So just over the past year, for a year and a half, 3,000 people have been employed in this segment, and it had to be done, and I also welcome it, and as far as seasons are concerned, the same thing is with seasons in tourism that work for 3 months and go home, so there won't be any big difference, there are seasons in Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik, given its capacities it can't meet the need for workforce in summer months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80624	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, yes, you told the truth but you can't say that I didn't tell the truth because everyone before Minister Butkovic had a chance to deal with this. So no certain modes of transport appeared in Croatia yesterday, they last several years. And if it had been cut off at first, we wouldn't have gotten to so many thousands of those people who couldn't tell us we were dealing illegally but someone had the opportunity to do it but the minister, that's why I told him, and it has to be said publicly, had the courage to say you can all drive but on equal terms. On equal terms, not that anyone can do this, someone like this. Someone pays a tax like this, someone pays a tax like that. Someone had a marked car, someone didn't have a marked car. So simply if we do one job, we have to have it all the same but you forgot to say what I said at the beginning, to be satisfied with those who accept those services, which they use. And at the end of the season, one is the seasons that go to work on the seas that have no work, and the other are working somewhere, having a job and a job and going to sea to do practical extra activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80626	A representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk also appeared for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80627	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I'd like to welcome the adoption of this law for a number of reasons. Under the first liberalisation of the market, reform of liner passenger transport, introduction of micro transport, integrated transport of passengers, reforms and categorisation of the station and reform of the acquisition of professional training of drivers. But what I particularly like about the measures is to move from this system of public road road county transport system of transport licences based on a contract between carriers and the entire area and regional self-government so that we will no longer stop living in some parts of the school or that we do not have any transport. It is especially in rural areas and in areas of poorer population, we had a case in Osijek-Baranja County and equally reform and categorisation of the station. We know that the stations are the place of demand and the supply of transport services so if one of the concessionaries has a concession station and just his buses don't drive to some of the places here in Babina Gred, you come to the station and they'll tell you that you don't have a bus but there's some other carrier out there somewhere in front of the station that right now might be driving with the fact that I welcome the reform and categorization of the station, or this measure of this law. And now I will return to the reform of the acquisition of professional training or the initial qualification of professional drivers, and I will propose amendments or I will propose amendments to Article 7(1), so it would read that the initial qualification, other than the initial qualification set out in Article 5(2) of this Act, is obtained by attending the course by checking knowledge or by speeding up the acquisition of initial qualifications. Furthermore, in the same Article 7(2), I propose that the amendment and the second paragraph of the course and the knowledge check shall consist of training for the acquisition of the initial qualification of 280 hours and the theoretical and practical part of the exams following the submission of both parts of the examinations, a certificate of professional training on initial qualifications shall be issued. In addition, Article 7(4) also states that replacing it is an accelerated acquisition of initial qualifications includes attending a 140-hour course, a knowledge check, after the examination, a certificate of professional competence is issued on accelerated initial qualifications. Therefore, the explanation would be, of the two options allowed, the acquisition of the initial qualification of drivers provided for in the provisions of Directive 2003/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council on initial qualifications... training of drivers of certain road vehicles for the transport of goods and passengers referred to in Article 1 3. of the Directive in question, the amendment proposes to select the first option for the reasons that it prescribes the implementation of a 280-hour course, ensuring the preconditions for better quality and better adoption of the knowledge of candidates for drivers and the content and hourly burden of candidates, at least approximately that of regular high school students who are educated in the interest of drivers of road traffic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, concerning driver training centres and test centres, I would also propose an amendment, i.e. in Article. 1st, 2nd subparagraph b., to add to the text at the end of the sentence, of which at least 3 persons in a permanent working relationship to full-time work, which would explain that full-time training centres and permanent working relationships employ at least 3 persons who meet the prescribed conditions for professional staff performing education would increase the quality of teaching, i.e. provide for conditions for continuous training of professional staff, respecting the fact that they will have a basic job, i.e. a job. In particular, teaching candidates for professional drivers requires continued monitoring of the rules in several areas of traffic and other rights, continued education and training to contribute ultimately to the achievement of quality results, i.e. increasing the expertise and skills of drivers, or contributing to increasing road safety and would also refer to licences for foreign EU carriers and carriers, and would also be in art. 87th proposed a new article, Art. 9. which is a legal or natural person carrying out the loading or unloading of the cargo is obliged to verify the correctness of the use of an international cargo transport licence and any irregularity detected to report to the supervisory authorities. In the practical application of the use and handling of licences for the carriage of a load for a permanent carrier and EU carrier, many cases of abuse of licences appear in such a way that they are used to carry out several different transport tasks on the basis of one licence. It is also particularly important from the date of entry of the Republic of Croatia to the present day for the reason that the liberalisation of intra-EU transport has failed to control licences at borders, and this amendment introduces that control by persons carrying out loading or unloading of loads, as well as their obligation to report identified irregularities to the authorities responsible for the supervision, inspection of road traffic or customs in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, here, once again, I welcome the adoption of this Law, especially with these measures that I have already said in the introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80628	Thank you. One replica from MP Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80629	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maximchuk. So watch how we are fundamentally different. In this part of which you propose all amendments, I even agree. To improve this part of the training story. However, we have in the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, we have an Agency for Professional Education and Adult Education. We don't involve these people anywhere in the law. What's the Agency doing? And what we really, we keep in the Republic of Croatia is our systemic error. We're all new, we're new. It says here you should have a magic record. I don't know what a magic record is. When I Googled it, I got some kind of toy. They are, such things shouldn't be in the law. We have a system of education and education, we're preparing reform and vocational education, and there's a law here on vocational education, general education, and I think it should be included in this Law. Where are the obstacles to the work of the people who are here, you're talking about professionals who will work. They don't mention obstacles anywhere to work, and yet, no matter what they do to adults, it's still a educational process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80630	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80631	Thank you. Dear fellow, yes, I agree that we should include, of course, our educational institutions in this Law. But here's what's happening to us. It happens to us that we don't even have enough drivers to do this kind of service. Of course we're raising the number of hours from 140 to 280 and of course we're going to get closer to that, that number of hours to that education. Of course it won't be the same, but the requalifications were, they'll be in all the professions and so on in the driver's professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80632	A representative, Ljubica Lukačić, has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. Here I am today going to talk about the adoption of this Act probably nothing, and my opinion is that this is extremely important and, at first, I would like to thank you, Mr Minister and your associates, for the accessibility, that is, the transportation of persons with disabilities and in this law, and I believe that, behold, I would say finally after the signing of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and this burning problem in the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which says that "The States of the Parties to this Convention will take all appropriate measures to ensure accessibility to persons with disabilities and to build environments, transport, information and communication, including information and communication technologies and systems, as well as other services and spaces open to the public as well as in urban and rural areas." I purposely read Article 9 of the Convention on Accessibility, which contains all accessibility segments, in order to provide people with disabilities with easier and simpler lives or lives that will not need other people's help. As for the accessibility of transport to the Republic of Croatia, we can talk today about accessibility perhaps in some cities. The city of Zagreb is an example of this accessibility, so when we talk about public urban transport and so today we often talk about living in Zagreb for people with disabilities. Last year, the Republic of Croatia also adopted a document that is extremely important for all other persons with disabilities and accessibility, which is the Strategy on equating opportunities for people with disabilities according to which the document would require units of local and regional self-government to bring their strategies. Unfortunately, however, this is not often the case, only some counties and some cities have such strategies and try to address accessibility issues in general and then accessibility when it comes to transport. For many years, however, as a major problem, a really big problem, an intercity transport issue opens up for people with disabilities. Today you cannot get on a bus to Zagreb and leave for example. in Split because no such bus is adapted. I remember one bright example I'm going to mention here today, I had a chance to drive on one of those buses that was driving on the Zagreb-Osjek route, so it's possible that only the carriers need to want it. That bus was a bus upstairs but it was low floor, so you can get on it. A person with disabilities can enter as well as a person with less mobility. That was a few years ago, I don't really know if a bus like that is driving today, I hope that car carrier didn't go backwards. In order to improve transport accessible to persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility, we as a HDZ club, and here I have to say on the proposal of a large number of persons with disabilities to give two amendments concerning such transport, I will only explain them here one brief explanation, and one applies purely to terminology. So in Article 4(1), point 36, we cannot talk about persons with physical impairment but we must also comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as well as with all European documents, as well as with the Sheraton Declaration that we have brought to Zagreb in 2003, so it is about persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and persons with reduced mobility. The following amendment, which applies equally to Article 4(2), and point 31, in the case of an act called the general conditions of transport, that definition is further extended in a way that regulates both the conditions of transport and the rights during transport to persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility. All other problems related to the transport of persons with disabilities will be addressed and thank you for this, here from conversations before this debate and on committees, we have concluded that after the adoption of this law, it will be in amendments to a series of regulations that directly regulate transport, which will apply to persons with disabilities, as well as to stationary services, so that these sublegal acts will solve all that will be necessary for the transport of persons with disabilities. And another problem that we're going to solve equally with a sublegal act, the last few weeks here intensively talk about how taxi drivers don't want to take into their cars a person who's weak-sighted or blind with a dog or a person who runs a therapist dog. I think it's discrimination. On several occasions, however, the associations intervened, and here I expect that this problem will also be resolved by means of a sublegal act in order to suggest to the taxi drivers that they are obliged to respect all international documents and thus our domestic laws and sublaws. Before this debate began, I received several messages from our citizens regarding further clarifications or possible corrections in this regulation. I'm not going to talk about them now because I wouldn't have that much time, but here I have passed it on to the minister and his associates, so the minister will believe a little bit in the closing statement at least look back on those questions. On behalf of all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia who have been long for many years and it has been really long since the signing of the Convention, so since 2007, they have been waiting for this word problem, I hope that we will finally get this opportunity too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80634	Thank you. A representative of Gordan Maras has also applied for individual participation in the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. This is a local topic and, of course, a global topic at the level of Croatia but it can be seen from a local angle and therefore a very clear message to Croatian citizens that when there is a problem, the problem should be communicated because if there were no Croatian citizens, 3000 people who have been employed in the transport sector in the Republic by transporting persons, earning their bread every day and feeding their families, there would be no legal solution either. And so here's why when we look from a local perspective, a lot of these people work in the city of Zagreb, and I've used their services and people do their jobs fairly and it's good that it's finally put into certain frames and that's how citizens should act. And that is why I am using this opportunity to invite all the citizens of Croatia and the city of Zagreb, for example, to engage in another activity that will have a culmination tomorrow in front of the City Assembly at 7.30 protest against the waste management plan organised by our fellow citizens from Brezovica, Podsused, Vrapča and Resnik, and to support these people that the mayor of the city of Zagreb does not push the waste management plan that should not be and I will end up there because I wanted this especially highlighted that people can see that something can be done and hope that tomorrow in front of the City Assembly they will gather as many citizens and that the mayor of the city of Zagreb will not ignore their demands. As far as I'm concerned, and that's why I've put this invitation in front of me, and it's convenient for the citizens to see that it's being organised tomorrow at 7:30 in front of the City Hall. As far as this law is concerned, I will support it, I think it's good that we have such a defined law that opens up the possibility of economic activity, the action of all our citizens, I think it's a good idea to level the price of passenger transportation because it doesn't make sense to me that the price in Dubrovnik is 10 and more thousands of kunas, in Zagreb 1500, somewhere a few hundred kunas, and finally define it at one acceptable level where anyone can if they dare engage in that market, and it's not just like some people think, I'll sit in the car, and I'll put myself in a cab and drive whoever I want because there are market tools, there's a way to get to the consumer and there's no one to engage in certain activities unless there's strong sales support. And on the other hand, I'd like to say that this opportunity for people to engage in economic activities, to feed their families, must be something positive. I do not think that it is a limiting number of people who do business seem to be services to citizens, that it seems to be a service to one part of the people who have dealt with it, yes, but that it does seem to the citizens no, because the price of liberalisation must fall and people must have a service that is acceptable to price and quality will also evaluate and choose the one that is most acceptable to them and therefore it is not bad or it is good that it is finally regulated in this way. It will also avoid those ridiculous situations and ridiculous situations where, for example, the City of Zagreb Assembly made decisions to inherit permits in its family. means why it would be unsolicited for one circle of people if they could just do one job or one job and the other would want to do it, they couldn't do the job. So be careful what Mayor Bandic came up with, that in his family, someone on his knees will be doing the taxi job. What does that have to do with some family tradition and I don't know what he wanted to do with that community of people who did this job in the past? So I think that this will lead to lower prices which is certainly our interest, to less anxiety because we were certainly all witnesses and situations that have been going on over the past years, sometimes physical accounts between people because some colleagues who have been dealing with one job thought that someone was going into a market that they shouldn't be on under unfavourable conditions and that de facto takes bread from the table and then the state was letting the unloved scenes take place, especially, here, this Mr. Shucker probably knows well, in Velika they were the biggest anxiety around the airport because it's the most potential, I would say a line for taxi drivers and for those who deal with the transport of passengers in the city of Zagreb and Great Gorica, and it's good to finally get off the agenda and to allow people to deal with this business and if they want to work at the time of the season and go to sea, what would be problematic? Well, he's not a man, or his place of work, unfortunately we've witnessed this very often today, not only with our city, but with our own country. So we have hundreds of thousands of people leaving the Republic of Croatia because they'll be able to work somewhere else in a normal environment where there won't be certain situations they're not happy with in the Republic of Croatia. So by opening the market, we will allow people to work, consumers to have lower prices, and I think that ultimately the result will not be negative but will be positive. And I hope that it will make some who are engaged in the transport of these services to the Republic of Croatia for additional, I would say, and lower prices and adaptability to passengers and all that today's consumers in the Republic want. As for certain other amendments to the law, something counterpart Hajdash-Doncic was talking about. So, as to the transportation of students, or passengers, we do not see why it is limited to the possibility of such specific lines being organised in cities where there are already lines. So, on this side, it is possible to please certain or concessionaries or those who offer these lines, but why not units of local self-government, and that is a standard that, by me, in small towns or small municipalities and cities on it should be insisted if, for example, here is the information I get from my friends from other countries, for example, from Ireland who went from the Republic of Croatia, their child being brought in front of the house to school, which is why our cities and municipalities should not organise it if possible, and even though they have a parallel line that covers it? This has nothing to do with each other, and I think that this should be possible through this Law, that is to say, not to be exclusively related to those cities and municipalities that do not have a line transport organised in such a way. On the other hand, the question of the station, the question of practicality, the question of the costs of the carrier absolutely do not see why they must be used, and those sides would be made possible, especially in larger cities, larger areas, for example in the city of Zagreb, it would be possible to organise transport in other ways, leave passengers and some other stations that are equally adequate, I would say equipped, but for example 15 or 20 km or 10 km away from the bus station. Therefore, it should not be fully tied to the bus station, on the other hand, if it is possible to go out with both carriers and consumers. So, I'm going to support this law as a representative. I think it's a step in the right direction, I think we can give support on that side, I think it's a good thing to finally get off the agenda of that anxiety that's going to run through the Uber in the Republic, and I don't think it's going to be, as far as consumers are concerned, any problems, as far as those who've been doing taxi services so far, they're simply going to have some extra competition in the same conditions, and what I think the Law also needs to relax further is that car rental, or Rent-a-car services with a driver shouldn't be limited to the highest category of vehicles, given that it's perhaps inaccesssible to one part of people who might be able to use it, but this way it's going to be kept on the exception, or very few vehicles will be used in that way. So here are the few exceptions I think that, or change in the law, I think would lead to a better quality law, and on that side I hope that these amendments and proposals will be accepted, and on the other hand I support the Law and I think that it is a step in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80636	Dear ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome the delegation of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the Republic of Macedonia, the State Audit Office of the Republic of Macedonia, who visited the Croatian Parliament as part of a study visit to the State Audit Office and held several meetings here with our colleagues in order to exchange experiences. Give it up! We're moving on with the debate. Representative Petar Skoric also applied for individual participation in the debate. Since he's not here, he's losing his right. Representative Allen Prelec also applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80637	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, one of my colleagues said this was one of the most important laws that came to Parliament. It is clearly important because of the operation of the entire Republic of Croatia and transport. I'd say this is also demographic law because it solves people's problems, young people, all those who leave our area. In fact, Croatia is what it is, an exceptional number of people are going abroad, and I believe that one of the problems is exactly that transport, public transport in our region. However, here is when we talk about transportation I will refer a little bit to the previous discussions, and there was the Law on Islands where there are one coalition, I would say the unusual coalition 3B Bačić, Boric and Bauk have stood up to help the islands in Croatia. This is not bad but, in fact, here's the admiration for saying that my colleague, Bauk, on the left, and colleagues on the right, and Bacic and Boric, have taken up the position that our islanders have a good ride. When we talked about the islanders then we can say, here is the third participant of the 3B coalition, that all agreed together that islanders should be helped with transport and made better communication with the islands. Here's every honor to the islanders, maybe we can call this coalition 4B if Minister Butkovic is going to be the same in that 4B, but I'm saying this is nothing bad but dada, here I admire all those who fight for islands and space. But I will try to fight when we talk about this Law on road transport for islands in Zagorje, islands in Lica, islands in Slavonia, when we talk about islands then I really literally think that here I am working as chief and working with many of the Commissioners I would say rural spaces and mayors and I know what their problems are. When we talk about this law, we talk about how he must even the transport and the price. Unfortunately, it's not true nowadays. We here in Croatia have extremely unequally developed areas of municipalities and cities, I, when I talk to my colleagues, have a colleague who is the head of the Zagorje villages and we are talking about the need to re-establish the Zagreb-Kumrovec railway line that would in many ways help the operation of the end of Croatia's Zagorje and she says that she does not have any public transport in her municipality. That's just what surprised me, and that's why I'm talking about islands in Zagorje. And I can speak equally of islands in Lika and Slavonia. You have a very large number of areas in Croatia that do not have any public transportation. Clearly, in a place like this, young people go, if they don't have a job and they don't have normal communication to a small town or small towns where they could work, clearly they don't see a perspective in that space. And that's why I said this is one demographic law that should allow all corners of Croatia to have an adequate transport in which people will be able to communicate. So I say and hope that my colleagues will not blame me for this 3B and 4B, I would like us all to fight for good transport throughout Croatia and that this Croatia will not go towards 3 million people but 4, and one of the reasons will be better transport. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to give you one amendment, and I need to get involved in integrated transport. I am a Zagreb County resident who is clearly relying on the city of Zagreb, a few years ago it may have already been 6.7 years ago, the city of Zagreb and the mayor of Krapino-Zagorski Mayor of Zagreb, Mr Kožić and Kolar, have launched an integrated transport which should have been a pilot project in Croatia of integrated transport, it has been going on for years. And this amendment of mine will go towards giving a period in some way when integrated transport should be implemented because if we talk about the integrated transport of the city of Zagreb being solved already here I would say 6, 7 years, and I don't think it's a science but we just need to copy the integrated transport that exists in Austria, there are other EU countries, and we're writing studies, books and we haven't done anything in those 6, 7 years. All those who come to Zagreb daily know what traffic is on these roads to Zagreb, and it is also related to Zagreb County which is the ring around the city of Zagreb, it is also connected to the County of Zagorje and this integrated transport should be implemented as soon as possible. I will not only talk about the integrated transport of Zagreb, Zagreb and Zagorje County, so is the integrated transport that should operate around the city of Split, around Rijeka, around Osijek, and that would be one stopper in solving people's problems and demographic politics. That's why my debate is going in that direction, I would like the ministry to set those deadlines when integrated transport should be implemented. I have listened to the paragraph, the law, the recommendations and all that together in the past few years or many years, but when something really needs to be done then it takes years. I think that for this law and integrated transportation of the city of Zagreb and the surrounding area it does not take a decade but should simply sit down, copy and implement well in this space. We have a suburban railway Long Village-Savski Marof, I think all bus carriers can drive towards that line which may be one of the more profitable, if it is not the only profitable line of HZ in the Croatian state and I don't think there should be too much philosophy. One more thing I'm going to praise, and I know that on the board, Miss Secretary of State said that it would allow units of local self-government to be transported along with the transport of primary school children. Here's what I'm glad that the last law made it impossible, many units of local self-government simply don't have any public transportation, I think it will allow all of them to be an adequate space, that primary school students will first of all have safety in transport, that's what's most important and it should never be ignored, but I'm saying that it's all possible and that's why I'm giving this full support in this part of the law. Finally, and I believe that the law is going in the right direction, that it is a step forward and that it will allow better operation of transport in Croatia. I'm just saying another addition, I'm asking if it's possible that local self-government units have more possibilities of agreements, i.e., to commit the counties, that they have to negotiate with local self-government units, related to that transport, because more than once the county has specific municipalities, some of which corresponds to something, some are not responding. And if they put it all in canteens, it'll be something that won't be good. It means obliging the county to discuss and to agree with local self-government units how to organise transportation in each area of the local self-government unit. And just for a little while to look back at Uber, I think Uber is welcome to Croatia. I think it's going in the direction that citizens will have better, faster transportation, and ultimately cheaper. However, there should be little regulation of the situation regarding taxi drivers, if they are not in a more unfavourable position. I believe taxi drivers at this point have a fuller regulatory framework, and they are much harder in this situation than the Uber that has a platform, and it's all much simpler and therefore they can be cheaper in transport, to be helped a little bit. I'm saying, I'm not part of the cab lobby, not at all, but in fact, I think that Uber is one really step forward, that taxi drivers wouldn't be in a more unfavourable position, and here's just a little bit of degression, and I believe that you're thinking in that direction, and that this law will be a significant step forward, for all units of local self-government, and that people will be more satisfied and that transport will be better. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80638	Thank you, counsel. Gordan Maras, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80639	Thank you very much. Mr. Prelec, in your debate, you said that some jobs might be opened, people won't leave Croatia, and I'm sure of it. I am sure that this law, i.e. by these amendments, will allow for both the next year and a few days, to open up new, perhaps up to 10,000 jobs in the transport sector of our fellow citizens, and on this side I support this law, and I do not think that this is a bad solution and should be supported. But once again I will remind you and point out that only the pressure of citizens, and the pressure of people who have begun to make their incomes in this segment, has also come to the conclusion that the law is being written and the law is changing. And that is why I call once again on all my fellow citizens tomorrow to respond in front of the Zagreb City Assembly to put pressure on Mayor Bandic, not to bring a waste management plan. Do not compose in Brezovica, not a recycling yard in Posused Vrapč and not a large waste dump in Zagreb's Sesveta district in Resnik, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80640	You've run out of counsel Gordan Maras time, but I would beg you to stick to the topic of debate. The answer to the replica, I hope by this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80641	Thank you. That's why I'm gonna point my colleague in the right direction. I would love it if we mayor Bandic would have to implement this integrated transport of Zagreb, Zagreb and Zagorje County because he can. He's the power that can do it. We know that we have a company, an integrated transport of Zagreb and the City of Zagreb, which has its own director, and already works I don't know how many years, I'm not sure that we're far away from it all together. That's why when there's this protest, I support this protest, which you say about and waste disposal and all that together. ... Mayor Bandic is true that integrated transport is on its way and not a post. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80642	Representative Arsen Bauk, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80643	When you mentioned transportation to the islands, I remember this debate from the report on the implementation of the Island Act. I must say, this law has been contacted by taxi drivers and others who are engaged in transportation on islands, because they have expressed certain concerns about the lack of respect for the sensuality of their work. And they expressed a certain fear, that in the summer they would lose part of their income, and that in the winter they had no income. I'd like the island management to return to where it used to be at the Ministry of the Sea. That's what we've changed, and I believe Mr. Butkovic in that sense, if he were a minister, a month, two, five, a year as it is, so that he could, in a better way, understand island problems. And I ask him to reconsider the comments of the taxi driver from the island, and if he considers it necessary to intervene with the amendment, following the debate in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80644	Representative Marko Vesligaj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80645	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here you have, colleague Prelec, in your debate on public transport issues, primarily in rural areas that have certain specificities of their own, hence reducing the number of people and a different way of life. And today, actually, public transport is no longer what it used to be in those rural areas and there are no certain nor market grounds, unfortunately, for its, sort of greater use. What remains most important, of course, is the exception of the single, elderly population, which does not have and some of its basic transport is the transport of primary school children and high school students and, in this direction, I commend, that this can be done together now. What I think, given that education is first of all, given that all political options stand out and agree on how important and important it is, I think that the state should create a framework, which will finance this high school transport, and not that every year, we actually have some discussions and recommendations within the counties, between counties, cities and municipalities, about co-financing and the amount of co-financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80646	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80647	I'd like to thank my colleague Vesligai, and he's on his way, and it's going to be a big problem. In fact, many units of local self-government simply do not have the opportunity to finance public transport and it is therefore as bad as it is. The smaller units of local self-government, there are fewer fiscal opportunities and capacities and can't co-finance public transport, and we know that public transport is actually inconclusive in all units of local self-government. And there should be legal regulation, there the ministry should make it possible to level that transport in all or in most units of local self-government, to be an acceptable price, whether it co-finances maybe the ministry, the county and together units of local self-government and that we do not have at least that motive for leaving people from optimal environments because public transport is bad, and it is really bad and I say, small units are not able to co-finance that public transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80648	Representative Ivan Pernar reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80649	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Today, the debate on taxis is, otherwise I'm reluctant to propose the HDZ government, but I think this proposal is good, of course it can always be better, but this proposal is certainly better than the situation we have right now, and here's why. The first thing is that cab drivers wanted everyone to be equal in front of the law, so it's not possible for them to pick up one rule, and for the cabbies the other. This law introduces equal rules for all, so the basic requirement of taxi drivers is met. The second thing is logically that the licence is issued to the person who seeks it and is not hereditary, i.e. it is not transferable. There's no need to be portable, why? Because anyone who meets the requirements can get it. Before it was another thing, before you had to get those licenses paid dearly, i.e. buy and what's worse, they didn't buy licenses from the state office or administration, from the city, no, licenses were bought from someone who had them before, so someone could have had 5 licenses, 4 licenses, could buy them, sell them, etc. It's a completely insane situation. This law regulates it in such a way that a licence can be obtained by anyone who wants to deal with this transport. The situation so far has been, I will give the following example, drive me a man with a car, Zagreb taxi I think it was and what was it? He had a taxi meter in his cab, I drove around countless times with a Zagreb cab, I was never taken by anyone, I was never fooled by anyone. But that one time, the meter turned, according to my assessment, faster than it should have been. You just see the numbers spinning in front of your eyes. And now I'm asking this man what good is that? And he says, you know, if I don't do it like that, I don't get it, I can't make it. And why was that happening? Well it happened because he didn't have his license, he worked for someone else who had a license. So someone had, like, four licenses, and then he told him okay, with one of my licenses, you're gonna drive, but you got to pay me 4,000 kuna a month. which will say that he made more money on the license than one individual needed, instead of getting a license from a country or city. So it's complete, the current system was actually doing what? He seemed to be the licensee, that those licences were portable, that he could give them to whoever he wanted, etc. Very one crazy system. And what I'm saying is that the good news of this law is that we move with technological development, so it used to be a meter. Today people are driving, let's say I'm a younger person, always ordering a taxi over the app, never by phone call. And I can honestly say that, since in 99.9% of cases I was satisfied with the Zagreb taxi, I always ride with them here. I never ride with UBER, with CAMMEO very rarely, because I'm satisfied with them. And the reason I'm driving with them is because, let's say UBER has a cheaper price, yes, but I'm not satisfied with their service, I prefer the service of Zagreb taxi. And what's being introduced now is this application billing is actually a top-of-the-line thing, because then every time you drive, it gets to you, i.e. You can see what road you've traveled, how many miles and you know what the price of a mile is, you know the total time you've been driving, no one can say that the price of that is different from the one you are. As long as you don't actually have the perception of those numbers at the taximeter, they can spin whatever the man wants. Of course, 99% of people are honest, but there's always a part of the dishonest. And another problem exists, which is that taxi drivers often knew how to rob passengers. I know, like, when I say robbery, so they used to charge something worth 100 quid, 200 quid. You had a situation in Dubrovnik where for transportation from the airport to Dubrovnik, the taxi driver is in my opinion a lot of charge, in my opinion. And this bill prevents overpayment, i.e. overestimation of those services. If someone's gonna do the same thing for twice as much money and do the same service, the state's here to make it happen. The role of the state is to break up monopolies and allow for the free and smooth development of society. Well, it can't be 4 million people plus I don't know a million or two guests being hostages of interest to 2,000 taxi drivers. And so far, so far, a group of people have been blackmailing. I remember when there was still, before Camme's arrival, so that was awesome, those cabbies were playing chess, no, they rarely drove any passengers, and then when they were driven, there was a much more expensive ride. And I remember how much resistance there was even a taxi Camme coming in, I remember like yesterday. They were protesting against Camme. Today things move even more in a more positive direction, the free market is actually being introduced, the one to whom it is worth doing the job he will deal with, to whom it is not worth the work he will not do. What's crucial is that passengers drive cheap and relatively safe. As far as the vehicle's age is concerned, I don't think it should be limited to seven years. Why? Well, because no one guarantees you that a six-year-old vehicle drives better than an eight-year-old vehicle. It's individual. Depends on the vehicle to the vehicle if the vehicle had a collision, there was no, is the way in which the vehicle is operated. You have someone who in 10 years will pass three times the mileage of someone else at 7. It depends, of course, on the way the vehicle is treated. You can drive a car gently, you can be rough with it. And accordingly, it feels on both shock absorbers and motors, brakes, etc. So here's my only suggestion is this constructive nature, so it's not limited to 7 years, let's give at least 10. Here, let's take it to 10. And what's crucial is that if anyone sees the i.e. the person on the technical examination to know that this car is used for taxi transport, she may say if the vehicle is younger or 5 years or 3 years old, simply to say listen but this vehicle of yours because of the condition in which it is located does not meet the conditions for it. But if the vehicle is the most normal. What does it mean if it's a 2008 vehicle? Well, that doesn't mean it's a vehicle that shouldn't be driven by passengers. It can be a top limo, it can be a Mercedes just like that. So what now? You're not supposed to drive him because he's over 10 years old, so what's the logic? That's because he's over seven years old. And it could be a top-of-the-line vehicle. And also these taxi drivers had to pay a lot of these charges, many of which I think are pointless, in fact their goal was to get a license, I think we need to simplify this team more than I think it's crazy to ask someone who's going to take a taxi to know, say, all the streets in Zagreb. Well, he can't know all the streets in Zagreb, but that's why there's an app, so he can write here we go from point A to point B and the app just says turn left, turn right, drive 500 meters straight, you get to the destination, you have 200 meters to the destination etc. I think we should, sometimes people had tickets, so I remember that or they just had to know. Today there's no need for you to have smart devices, you can find out any information at any moment. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80650	On behalf of the promoter, the final word, Minister Oleg Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80651	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. At the end of today's debate on the Road Transport Act, I must express my satisfaction and thank all the clubs and all the individual debates, all the MPs and MPs who have discussed and who in their discussions and attitudes have presented some things that could have been better, which should be corrected and which should be regulated perhaps in a better way. And we're definitely going to take a look at all the amendments that come in, some of them we've already looked at, they make sense, they definitely have the ground to do better and look at them and some of them we accept. As far as I am concerned, I may finally say, I repeat once again, the law is, the aim of this law was to first take over all those legal, legal property of the EU all the directives that have been adopted in the meantime and what is most important and what has been talked about today is that this law will regulate public liner county transport and certain MPs have talked about removing lines in their fields. This law and this bill of law give the counties the opportunity to conclude with the carriers the contracts in question and to arrange public line transport that becomes a public service. Of course, in cooperation with cities and municipalities, which should actually start an initiative on the need for such transport. The other thing I want to say is that all of those proposals that went in the direction, the esteemed MP Lukačić, we will absolutely accept, I think they went too far because we took care of it but we always need it more, so thank you for that, we will definitely see your amendments, we will surely as a ministry accept it. The next thing you know, what's most about is what you've been talking about, and what you've discussed most about, it's regulation of a car taxi. Once again, the goal of this law was to establish equal rules for everyone. No one is privileged and no one is different from who is now already performing and who will be carrying out a taxi ride. That's the first thing. Another thing, we're introducing an electronic app as a medium to select the shortest route of traffic and I think that's good. It's a matter of whoever orders it through an application, whether they accept it's a matter of contract, whether they accept it or not to accept that kind of transport and such an offer, and I think it's something that the citizens will absolutely welcome. The second thing is, we provide car taxis with full entrepreneurship freedom in such a way that they can carry a taxi ride wherever they see economic interest. Why limit someone from Slavonia to drive a taxi in Split or Dubrovnik? What's to limit it for? Well, they're all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If they are good at catering, if they are good at other activities and work over the season by the sea, why prevent them from working and driving taxis over the season, why? Why would these people go out of state and work outside? So I think that we are definitely here and I accept many debates from the people who said today and pointed out that this law will allow for the creation of new jobs and should absolutely be welcomed. And the third thing, the car taxi license limit is lifted in the area of a local self-government unit, but we're not taking away the right to local self-government to issue a license. And that's where I agree with my colleague Shucker who said that law remains a unit of local self-government. So all those with valid licences will be able to enter that particular unit of local self-government and request permission to work. That's what I wanted to point out. We will look at all these amendments and here tomorrow it will be in the Government, and then we will propose to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80652	Representative Arsen Bauk reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80653	Minister, I accept what you have said about the citizens of other parts of Croatia who come in the summer to work in many activities and so on, and the activities of transport, yet I would like you to answer me, do you understand the specificities of taxi transport on the island? It has two specific features compared to the rest of Croatia. The first is that it occurs exclusively during the season because very rarely someone uses a taxi on the islands of winter, and the second is that it is more used as interurban transport, as a public transport substitution and is mainly used in summer and mostly in ferry ports. So there's a certain specificity here, my question is do you understand that specificity and can you say in any way to solve this specificity in relation to others? That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80654	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80655	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I know about this initiative, it came in writing, there were certain numbers and media advances and such requests by the island. Look, we can't single out anyone in this law. That was our attitude. There are other laws and a whole series of applicable laws that put islands, which are truly specific, in a different position than the rest of Croatia. I will mention only in my portfolio, you know that all legal and physical persons on the island of Krk and surrounding islands are freed from the Krk Bridge, that they pay 50% of the tickets whether, that we started with 80 million euros of investment on islands exclusively for island integration. So there's a whole series of measures that this ministry is doing right for the islands so this law, we think, wouldn't be good if we were to single out and put any exceptions into this law. But that the islands should continue to be helped, that they should continue to work through other laws, I absolutely support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80656	Representative Branko Bačić reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you are right with this final finding of yours, we have long tried to find a way through this law to particularly value the island's or taxi transport on the islands in view of the circumstances that my colleague Bauk was talking about, but you claim, a number of measures have already been taken towards the Croatian islands when it comes to traffic connection and better conditions of transport are taken with and on land. In that sense, I would like to thank you on behalf of the islanders, Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the inhabitants of Mljet, Korčula and Lastova for establishing the entire annual fast-ship line from Dubrovnik via Sovra on Mljet, Korčula to Ugljan on Lastovo, which will start on 1 May and become an entire year's fast-ship line which means a lot, connecting primarily the island of Lastova with the headquarters of its county, which was not the case now. In this way, it has proved in fact how much your ministry and personal care for the islanders are, in that sense, especially the islanders of my county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80658	Ljubica Maksimchuk's representative answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80659	Thank you very much. Here, at the end of today's debate, a short question of the Minister, refers to Article 117, which states that within 60 days of the entry into force of this law, the rules are to be laid down here that this number of regulations from 12 is to be reduced to 10, so I ask the Minister, will these deadlines be respected, given that the current road transport law that was adopted in 2013 and the permit rule for the transport of passengers was adopted at the end of 2015. Here's just so this doesn't happen to us, so can you honor this 60-day deadline for the adoption of these regulations?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80660	Replication response, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80661	Thank you, well-respected MPs. So the goal and intention was to make this law go according to emergency procedures for the tourist season. A law without regulations doesn't make much sense. So next week we're going to release the regulations into public consultation or public debate so that they will be adopted safely before that deadline for a maximum of 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80662	Representative Allen Prelec has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80663	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you have come here today, that we have discussed this very important law together, that you have listened to our remarks, and I hope that you will continue to appreciate some of the things that we have brought out today in this debate because they were truly well-intentioned and heading towards better transport. Here you have now said in the final presentation that much depends on the counties that should sign certain permits and cooperate with the units of local self-government and this concerns me most because many times the county has no understanding, nor do they want to talk too much with local self-government units, and should, this public transport clearly depends on one and the other, and above all to do well to small municipalities. I am more concerned with this speed of law enforcement, the implementation of transport, and I hope that we may speed it up a little bit and that bureaucracy will not be an obstacle to solving some problems, but rather to encourage problems to be solved as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80664	This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80665	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Road Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 327. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club, the GLAS and HSU's Club of Representatives, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists and Alen Prelec's representative. The review of the amendments was sent to you by electronic means, there are 16. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, with us is respected Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure Oleg Butkovic. We're starting ministers with the first amendment, it's an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80666	The government does not accept the proposed amendment of the SDP Representatives Club. The definition of rental of a vehicle with a driver was intended to clearly separate the way and purpose of carrying out and the activity from the activity of carrying out a car taxi and to highlight the purpose and manner of providing the service in question. In view of the targeted users of the car rental service with a driver who was able to pay the price of such a service, it was necessary to define the appropriate type of vehicle for that purpose, i.e. the highest class of passenger cars with up to 4 seats and a place for the driver.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80667	The SDP club, the esteemed colleague... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80668	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80669	You're withdrawing the amendment, thank you. Then we'll go to the second amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80670	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80671	Then he becomes an integral part of the law. The third is the amendment of the Maritime Committee, transporting infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80672	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80673	It becomes an integral part of the law. Fourth amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80674	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80675	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 5, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80676	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80677	It becomes an integral part of the law. Sixth, Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80678	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80679	It becomes an integral part of the law. The seventh amendment, the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80680	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80681	It becomes an integral part of the law. The eighth amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80682	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80683	It becomes an integral part of the law. The ninth amendment, the Maritime Committee, transport, infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80684	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80685	It becomes an integral part of the law. The tenth amendment, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80686	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80687	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 11, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80688	The Government does not accept that amendment. A provision allowing car taxi drivers to enter pedestrian zones to board and land passengers with difficulty in moving, sick passengers, passengers with children under 7 years of age, we hold that it is not the subject of this law but the Road Safety Act. The provisions of the Road Safety Act, i.e. traffic rules, using appropriate traffic signalling, may be allowed or restricted to the movement of certain types of vehicle, as well as to vehicles operated by taxis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80689	Here you are, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, the esteemed representative of Čikotic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80690	As regards the Road Transport Act, we believe that this provision should be more clearly defined, especially because of persons with disabilities, and also in the amendment, it was actually proposed to formulate in a different way a provision, that taxi carriers should be limited not to stand at public transport points in order to avoid the collapse of public transport, especially in Rijeka, Split, Dubrovnik, where buses enter city centres because the situation will happen that buses will not be able to stand at their intended points of view and how people with disabilities will then use public transport if we do not have the security of the bus stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80691	You're asking me to vote? Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 12 of the SDP's Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80692	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80693	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 13 to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80694	The government does not accept this amendment as it proposes a decision on how to carry out special forms of passenger transport, a solution issued by the competent administrative authority. In view of the provisions of the rules on the content of the solution as an administrative act, it is not necessary to oblige the competent administrative authority to take a specific decision on the conditions for issuing that solution, such a decision may be taken if the competent administrative authority considers it necessary to define the conditions for the exercise of the activity in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80695	The obvious, esteemed colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80696	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. So we here on several occasions are talking about decentralisation, about mutual cooperation. This amendment that was proposed actually went that way. Obviously, the government did not recognise that what we are saying we really want through the laws, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80697	Then let's join the vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number 14 of Agent Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80698	The Government does not accept that amendment. As the Special Law on integrated passenger transport is drawn up to regulate the problem of integrated transport in all transport sectors, the deadlines for the application of integrated passenger transport will be specified by that Act, if they prove necessary. However, it should be noted that the introduction of integrated passenger transport requires significant material resources, clear projects and personnel resources for its implementation, which should be taken into account when prescribing any deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80699	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80700	Pulling... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80701	Okay. Thank you. We're going to Amendment number 15 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80702	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80703	It becomes an integral part of the Law. And last, the 16th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80704	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80705	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the Law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Road Transport Act. Please, let's vote. I find that the Law received 102 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 10 votes against, and thus passed the Road Transport Act along with all amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80706	The next item on the agenda is - Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities - Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8. Law on electronic communications. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Oleg Butkovic, Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80707	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The work of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities shall be managed by the HACOM Council appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the term of office of president, deputy president and members of the HACOM Council expired on 22 February 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has previously carried out a public call procedure to propose candidates for 5 HACOM council members as prescribed by the Electronic Communications Act. A public invitation to propose candidates for 5 HACOM council members was published on 27 December 2017 in the NN, the Morning List and on the website of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Applications for a public call could be submitted within 15 days of the date of publication of a public call to the NN, i.e. on 11 January 2018. 40 applications have arrived within the time limit for submission of applications. On the basis of the procedure followed by the published public call, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision on the appointment of presidents, vice presidents and members of the HACOM Council at its meeting held on 15 March 2018. The President, the Vice-President and members of the HACOM Council shall be appointed for a period of 5 years and may be re-appointed. At the same meeting, the government of the Republic of Croatia also opened a proposal for a decision to resolve the president, deputy president and members of the HACOM council for the end of the term of office. Both proposals for decisions with appropriate documentation were submitted to the Croatian Parliament. Following the above-mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament proposes the resolution of Dr Drazen Lučić to the office of President of the Council, Domagoj Jurjevic to be the deputy president of the Council, and Zdravko Jukić, the doctor of science Nikola Popović, and the doctor of science Marijan Bolarić, as members of the HACOM council, to expire his term of office. In conclusion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Tonka Obaljen to the President of the Council, Darko Josipovic to the Deputy President of the Council and the Master of Science, Mislav Hebel, Ante Milas and the Doctor of Science Nikola Popović to the members of the HAKOM Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80708	A representative of Nikola Grmoy has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80709	Dear Minister, you know that on many occasions we have warned the director, Drazen Lučić, of the term of office, on several occasions here in the Croatian Parliament. We heard from the media that you wrote to the government of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder why a man who has the power of judgment didn't do anything? In the case of Drazen Lučić, why didn't you do more yourself, why did the Government of the Republic of Croatia do nothing but wait for his mandate to expire? About the new director you proposed, I don't know much about the man, I wouldn't want to attack him because we didn't even give him a chance to see how this job would work, the fact that he's a brother from Minister Osula, but it wouldn't be very problematic here at this point. I'm interested in how it could have allowed Drazen Lucic to carry out his own will in HACOM, all the accusations that we've made here, the fact that he lied to the MPs here during the debate, and that neither you nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia did anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80710	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80711	I'll be right there, thank you. Mr. MP, president, vice president and members of HACOM elects the Croatian Parliament. About Mr. Lucic's work and you're right, I wrote what I think, which is why the gentleman was acting in office and that nothing in the criminal act that you're implying from your question has happened, I can't give you an answer to that question. What I can say is that during this legal procedure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the basis and qualifications of people and good preparation, i.e. reviewing the entire documentation of five candidates we believe will lead HAKOM in the future as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80712	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of the Grmoi.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80713	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238. Your Honor, I wasn't talking about criminal responsibility. She's been established. He has the power of judgment. I was talking about the fact that your colleagues from HDZ, and according to the government, supported HACOM and Director Lucic's report. I ask the question why? Why you supported him when you knew about it, and we introduced you here. I've brought and shown the power of judgment. That's the real question. You may have done something, but what did your colleagues in HDZ do, what did the Prime Minister do and what did HDZ do in full?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80714	A representative of the bush. I didn't notice it was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so be careful next time, otherwise there'll be a warning. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? We have the II students with us. High school from Zagreb at the gallery, please welcome them with a round of applause. I'm opening a debate. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists for Participation in the debate, Miro Bulj reported. Here you go, Mr. Grmoja. Otherwise, it's a rule, so I'd like to ask the MPs, please, ask the MPs to be patient. [[We'll take half the two of us.]] Otherwise, the rule is to apply before, since it happened, now I'm letting go, next time I'd like to ask the MPs to take care of it to apply before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80715	Comrade HDZ, you don't need to be afraid of what I'm about to say, and I've already said that here in this House. You don't need to be nervous. So, on several occasions, we warned of a catastrophic situation in HACOM, a very bad situation on the market, the fact that we have a monopoly on the market by one operator and that it wouldn't be all negative, so I see some shifts as well. I see that the government has made a decision to move into the construction of the state aggregate network, which I am more, which I have talked about here in the Croatian Parliament on many occasions. We know how much resistance the HT has been, or Deutsche Telekom, that the state is not going to build a aggregate network. However, the government's decision, which was made clearly under the pressure of us here from the opposition, is very positive for the Republic of Croatia, and in this direction it is to be welcomed, but the situation in HACOM, the situation in the regulator is in no way good. And what I brought here to Minister Butkovic in the replica, the situation that we had a man in charge of HACOM who has a powerful verdict, who has fooled us here by all the MPs and claimed that it wasn't true when we showed him the paper, proved to be true. The fact that you've been defending him all this time and now that his term is up and running, it's certainly not something that's good and that needs to be welcomed. What needs to be welcomed, and what I welcome from this place is the fact that the state has made a decision to build a aggregate network that will be owned by the state, which means that it will be offered to all operators on equal terms, which will ultimately lead to better services for our citizens, which will lead to the fact that these services will be more favourable and that we do not have a situation for one operator to have such a monopoly on the market. We all remember that in the media talking about the relationship of one person from the Government's Office with HT, that we have warned about it here in the Croatian Parliament, I think that my colleague Glavasevic has even raised an application for conflict of interest, I think that the application was finally rejected, but it is a good thing that the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Croatia had the strength to resist the intensities of Germany that wanted only Deutsche Telekom, or HT has a monopoly in the Republic. We are all grateful to Germany for what it has done about international recognition of the Republic of Croatia, but Croatian interests must be ahead of any other interests, or interests of our citizens. As far as the HACOM Council itself is concerned, all those accusations we made at the expense of Drazen Lučić are well known to everyone. I'm sorry that what the minister demanded was that and what was the job letter that it wasn't recognized by the government. I don't know why the government of the Republic of Croatia decided to protect this man, why they decided to do so, why they decided to protect him from HDZ representatives here in the Croatian Parliament and vote each time. What's positive is that there's a change going on because his term of office is up. Many media speculate that it is not good to be the brother of Minister Obuljen, as one bad message is being sent. This time, I'd stay restrained, see what the results of that man will be. We can agree that the message may not be the best, but it is certainly good that there has been a change at the head of HACOM, and the results mean that Mr. Obuljen will show whether this change, or whether it was the happiest solution. It is likely that here, during the debate, he will be troubled that he is the brother of Minister Osula, probably also colleagues from the opposition will attack it here today. I will remain restrained on this issue, I will see how a man will do his job, and in the vote itself, we will make a decision at the MOST Club, and what I would like to stress once again that all of our regulatory agencies should fight the monopoly on the market, they must not please anyone, that is the task and management of HACOM and hopefully here, and that these decisions that have been, which are positive, which have been made recently, will go exactly in the direction of suppressing the monopoly. The fact is, I hope, that everyone on the market will have equal conditions, that this will ultimately lead to lower prices and better services for our citizens. I think it's in everyone's interest here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80716	The second part of the debate is taken over by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80717	Thank you very much. I would also briefly repeat that as far as the new appointment is concerned, I don't know anything about this man except that he's a brother of the minister. With that, as my colleague Grumo said, we'll see about him. However, the fact is that HACOM during the current director, which we warned at MOST and what we talked about all that was done and what was of the union ban, the action of the union punishing these people, the driving these people out of a system where quality was lost, and what are we talking about? We're talking about an agency that regulates $11 billion. So, post office, railways, telecommunications. The monopoly and the way we have in Croatia on telecommunications is visible and I welcome everything that is of interest to Croatia that a colleague of Grmoja said in building infrastructure for the Croatian state to be involved. However, the fact is that HACOM did nothing about teleoperers. I'll just mention the antenna pillars and the base stations, here, yesterday came one solution in the country, in a Sinj village to remove the base station, but that's after four years that it's illegally placed. So if Tele2 did it, he should have done it in Sweden, he shouldn't have thought of it, because they'd be incarcerated, detained, ie. Shut down. So we use our spacious and our ministries as well as HACOM are not the main ones that should have pointed out, they even allowed cultural goods, sing local self-government to be installed in spatial plans, to install these base stations. And, of course, to health homes and schools, kindergartens. They'll say it's not their role, that it's a spatial plan. Here, who operated as Mrs. Taritash, she knows how to plan things spatially. However, HACOM is the one who regulates a huge market, this so far president of the council should have been removed long ago, not this way when their mandate expired and once again crucially I will repeat it, today, i.e. I personally participated in a protest then, as an optimist and organizer, the setting up of base stations wherever they thought of it. Without it being regulated, as a simple structure, to set up an antenna pillar, with base stations, you don't need any permission. When you expand the balcony on the apartment, you need a building permit, a neighbor's consent, we absolutely agree with the old teleopers, i.e. Looks like we're their colony. Why their colony? Because everything they do to harm health, our space, HACOM did not, of course, say that, and could agree that in other countries it is because it regulates that market, because it does not work in its own countries. It doesn't work in its own countries. In their countries, however, they pay in order everything they have to pay, when you're doing some kind of facility, but teleopers don't pay for it. And I think, it's not just Hacom's fault, it's the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health, all the signs there were looking through their fingers, because of course, because they were silent. And we here fellow MPs, we can't keep our mouths shut about it, because it's been easier so far, I think he should have gone a long time ago, the man I was talking about, now that he's leaving, it's stupid to repeat at all, and about the new, respected ministers, but there's no minister, he's gone, we don't know anything except that Nina's brother Ossued. As far as HACOM is concerned, they are left alone, left to fight for themselves, here, as in the case of base stations, that every day ended windows, people, children living there, did not react as a regulatory agency. I know they can't interfere in space, because it's a matter, local, county and state-owned, spatial plans, but they've been silent and convenient. And we need to know that these teleoperators operating in the Republic of Croatia have the biggest profits in Croatia, but unfortunately they do not invest in Croatia, the only thing called Croatian... But they invest in other countries, that's the profit of our citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's the guilt of this system, it's the guilt of the silence and the heads of HACOM and the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Construction, everyone involved, allowed money to be drawn from our citizens and invested in other countries. That's the fact, about Mr. Lucic, I won't talk about the new ones anymore, we told him, the fact that the only thing we know about the man and what I know about the public, I won't, I'm just going to say that he's a brother from the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80718	The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate. On their behalf, MP Josip Boric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80719	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable representatives of the ministry. Very briefly, the HDZ Club will support the decision on the resolution of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, Mr. Drazen Lučić, Domagoj Jurjevic, Zdravko Jukic, Nikola Popovic and Marijan Bolarić, and the appointment after a public call by the president, vice president and council members, i.e. Mr. Tonko Obolen, Darka Josipovic, Mislav Hedel, Antun Milus and Nikola Popovic. Just a few corrections here, given what is said, that no one has done anything, has done, we have here a decision on resolution and appointment, as regards the monopoly in mobile phone, we have 3 operators, in fixed, I think 5 or 6, that can't be a monopoly, since we know how many operators there are in other countries the size of the Republic. With regard to HACOM itself, the objective of HACOM is to ensure competition, stable growth and innovation space in the electronic communications market, postal and rail services, as well as to protect the interests of users and passengers, as well as the possibility of selecting different communications and postal services at acceptable prices. It also aims to provide sustainable competitors with conditions for operators, as well as postal service providers and railway undertakings. And of course in the end, great support for economic growth. When we talk about HACOM, we talk about an agency whose work is made annually in the state budget of over 700 million kuna, it regulates the market worth more than 15 billion kuna, which employs over 20,000 people and the user has hundreds of thousands when we talk or millions when we talk about postal and mobile and fixed telephony services. What is ahead of us is certainly an important strategic goal, to realise over 120m euros from the European Regional Development Fund, to develop a wide-ranging internet and, of course, to the extent that this new council, which will vote on Friday, is expected to show by profession and knowledge that they are able to protect. I say, all rights of users, but also ensure even better market conditions and above all development and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80720	On behalf of the SDSS representative's club, which has applied for participation in the debate, says MP Boris Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80721	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a very important personnel decision in front of us because the Parliament is tasked with appointing the leading people of the most powerful agencies in the Republic of Croatia because HACOM is such an agency that is stronger than some ministries, and to the greatest extent in its work HACOM has no one above it to control its work, although, by definition, as an independent and non-profit legal person with public authority, it is the responsibility of the Parliament. A few months ago, when we discussed the report of the Management Council of HACOM, I pointed out that this kind of responsibility and debate is only in the Croatian Assembly that insufficient control of such a strong agency. This agency is also financially independent, which means that the money actually makes money on the market, and that it does not receive so much money or that their revenues are not from the state budget, and very often just such agencies that are called financial independent, understand their independence in a way that they are actually not responsible for their work because they do not receive salaries from the state budget but are earning on the market, although they are actually the founder of the state. So the founder of such agencies, including HACOM, is a state. The state gave public authority to the agency by law, so it transferred its state-owned authorities to the agency and the agency on the market performed as a monopolies and performed with the authority of the state. This is not a debate on the work report, nor would I look back at it because I say we discussed it a few months ago and the Parliament adopted it with almost 2/3 of the majority, 100 votes in favour, but I will remind you that the Council whose proposal to resolve the offence is punishable, what I know, I know of at least two judicial rulings of the High Court of Justice. On one occasion, the President of the Council and the Director of HACOM were found guilty and punished because they had exceeded their legal powers because they had prevented the establishment, i.e. they had affected the establishment of the union, and the other they were punished for using and delivering personal data to third parties of their employees, therefore, to their employees, this was contrary to the provisions of the Labour Act. I think that this composition, therefore, that we're solving, is actually what the government proposes to resolve has not been celebrated in its relation to the workers. If we remember the work and business report that HAKK has been especially doing minus business for the past year, and this has worsened the business, then we can say that they have not even celebrated their business. In any case, I think the fact that he's in a state-run institution is defending the establishment of a union and persecuting unionists, dominating labour rights is scandalous to me. As regards a concrete proposal for the appointment of a new composition of the Governing Council, it certainly draws attention to the public because of a proposal for the President of the Governing Council. I have already said that HAKOM is a very important institution that regulates the market of very high value, and for the president, a person who is related to a member of the government, or a culture minister, is proposed to Mrs Obuljen. It's not illegal. Whether this is a conflict of interest, let the ruling or decision be taken by the competent Commission for the conflict of interest, but certainly leaves one questionnaire in the public. However, the fact that the proposal for appointing has brought public attention is good for me because the action of Mr Obeden as President of the Council and all the other members of the Council will be under public scrutiny. It will certainly be more careful to assess his work and his moves and I believe that he will not make the mistakes of his predecessors but will actually work to correct them. Recently, a few days ago in a daily paper article about that one HACOM employee actually got fired, a powerful verdict was sent back to work after three years, that actually when she went to work, they told her in HACOM that she would be fired again, that I couldn't actually return her to that job. This is just proof of how much human human relations in HACOM are violated and that the new Council is up to a great deal of work only in that part, that I am not talking about this expert section relating to the regulatory part, to the regulation of the market where we have a small number of operators, where we have a very large number of unsatisfactory users, who are seeking therefore their rights in accordance with the consumer law and in accordance with some other laws. We as the most representative body in the country with the public must follow how the new HACOM Council will work which will have... Last name Obuljen, but this does not mean that it will not work in quality, so the SDSS club, with hope, will, therefore, support in good faith the Government's proposal and the government's proposal for a new Council composition, with the hope that the Council will work successfully in accordance with the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80722	Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80723	We're talking about the appointment and resolution of a very important agency. I'd just like to say briefly what it is, as I said on behalf of the club, the attitude of teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia towards citizens and towards space. Here's the news, the teleoperator must remove the base station on Radosic. The construction and spatial planning ministry has reached a solution in which the teleoperator must remove the base station on Radosic. I remind you, in 2014, there was a protest that illegally set up a base station on Radosic. And so hundreds of thousands. This is a micro example but the victory of the man over the system, 2 years ago was an inspection, so 2 years ago, only now was the inspection given the solution to remove the base station that the teleoperator illegally placed next to the home of Mr. Nikola Crnca, who tied himself to the base station chain, I was then as an activist involved in these protests and it is not only Radosic's. However, the fact is that Hakom does not say a word about it. It's not something teleopers can do in their home countries. I can't go to Sweden, Germany or anywhere else. So here as Parliamentarians, I've also given the ministers in charge here to change the rules, they haven't changed them. Of course they're going to give a legal initiative now, but it was supposed to be one, I know that this director had to regulate the market, that there was no monopoly, that we had a good service, but that's not the case, all that we did in this Parliament when we talked about appointments and resolutions, we were working against interests, that is. The ministry against the interests of this people, which is the case of this solution at Radosic's near Sinj. They call the people of Istria, Istria has sorted it out, now legally and some cities have solved it, too, but it's a dead letter on paper. I expect the future director to do the job in the interests of the people, protect the interests, regulate the market, and not allow the monopoly because it's a big piece of work where he regulates around 11 billion kuna, it's not a small market. It's a huge market regulated by HANFA. Once again, let's not let foreign colonialists do to us what they don't do in their own countries, that should be bold and bold to say. Let them stick to the rules as they stick to their states. This case on Radosic shows this, this solution to the removal of the base cell of the Lanterian column with the cell is proof that the system is not working and that people are left to themselves and that they are simply under the violence of these teleoperators. Since this is part of the regulation, regulation is part of the HANFA area, he would ask not to force it to be placed on cultural good base stations as it is in the case of Klis on the fortress. Go to the fortress of the ravine, a huge base station. Will he put the trap on their minds now for even greater cultural goods, for the bell towers, for the cathedrals? The time to engage if professional people, if the current director is an expert, should he propose and take up that part to be the same as in other EU Member States where these teleoperators come from in these areas. It takes courage. I know these stakeholders are now going to attack me, my colleagues because of these words, but the fact is that we're not asking anything else to be the same regulated terms. Teleopers such as in other countries, the EU we are calling for to be in Croatia. This is what we expect from the newly elected director, to be put in place as well as all the competent bodies of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia and we in Parliament, because so far we have left ourselves in other people's hands to be literally simple about their exploitation, that is so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80724	Representative Sagar reporting for replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80725	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, so the work of former director and HACOM and HACOM himself shows us one thing. In fact, the three governments have tried to convince the European Commission to accept the government's argument that the fast internet market is characterised by high prices and a small number of users compared to the EU average. We have expensive Internet, slow Internet and a small number of users. However, just a week before the European Commission approved 101.4m euros, HACOM releases a report saying the situation is great and has positive developments. At that point, it seemed to be suitable for certain stakeholders you are talking about, and that is why HACOM's leading position is important. I won't ignore the fact here, it's not a negligible fact that it's the minister's brother, she's exempt herself from conflict of interest. However, the conflict of interest will continue if HAKOM does not carry out his task and we will see soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80726	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80727	So it's clear to everyone that it was about the interest of taking over telecommunications, means the way it's taken over,... and after that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we will welcome this move that MOST warned that the network was building Croatia, to be Croatia, and not another state, but we also suggested that the right to the service of local self-government, privates, institutions, natural and legal persons where the service is and where is the one who manages the property because property and legal relations are not solved. Of course that was even in the public debate last and in the procedure, however, when the law came here, it was deleted because the night before the prime minister met with HT president. Therefore, these are not good things, we must and only ask that the interesting lobbys take their paws away from us and that we have the same conditions as we have in countries where teleoperators come from because telecommunications are left to foreign hands and taken from the people, without the people being given swear and they manage our system, that is the question even national security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80728	Representative Gordan Maras has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80729	Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, in your debate, you pointed out the importance of this institution but not only is this institution responsible for certain control of whether big money or billions of kunas go from Croatia to other countries. What worries me is what our Ministry of Finance doesn't control certain flows of money, investments, for example, in bonds from some of our telecom companies related to companies in other countries, in which way, I would say that part of the money goes out and is not paid as investments in certain financial instruments of taxes that would be paid in other situations. This is where the Ministry of Finance should see how much money goes out of Croatia and whether Croatia and Croatian citizens receive from taxes as much as they should in terms of taxation and taxes on the profits of all other taxes paid by these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80730	Replication response, counsel butt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80731	Well, sure service, we all know that the services that citizens pay and the profits of these companies run by teleoperators to invest in other countries, so we see, even boast that they will invest in other countries, only they have the advantage of Croatian telecoms. Of course we're not owners and that the state doesn't control it and that this profit that's huge in the Republic of Croatia is invested in other countries. So our citizens, it's not controlled to get you invested in other countries. They say that's the market. Of course, such a market, however, when we start from the very beginning should not be such a market because it was created by the Croatian man, he did not get shares for what he invested in the infrastructure. Each man individually, a thousand two marks then paid for the infrastructure. In the end, where did it go? Those who privatised, as Mr. Mudrinic participated in the process, later only became the director of the foreign company in Croatia that bought our telecommunications. It was absolutely against the interests of the people and against the interest of the security of the Republic of Croatia under cover we are in the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80732	Representative Gordan Maras reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80733	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. This is a very important institution that regulates a large market and people who are named, i.e. who should run that institution, should have expertise, have moral integrity and should in some way regulate a very large market and ensure that, as a regulator, certain standards of infrastructure in Croatia are improved, given that certain money is paid by companies present on the market, and we are unfortunately still in the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately we have an Internet-related infrastructure, or something that has become normal, the speed of the internet in Croatia, unfortunately not at the right level, but we are among the weakest in the EU. What I will say about some proposed candidates, I have a positive opinion, everything I have heard, for example about some, specifically about Mr. Obulena is good, only his, unfortunately, relationship with the minister raises certain doubts about the appointments, but the gentleman certainly according to his characteristics, what people have told me, is pleased to work in the board of directors of the institution, but here immediately Mr. Josipovic's first associate is a gentleman who apparently came here on the humane party key because there was clearly an HNS, HDZ. It's a colleague who has nothing to do with that profession, but nothing at all. The man who worked at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who graduated from transport in 2007, at 36 years of age, does not mean that it is not good to educate himself all his life and someone who doesn't finish college at 20 if he had to work, if he can be educated, should be educated both in older years and on that side it's not bad, but then the man transferred to the economy and became that specialist and his entire career was related to the work that he was doing was very much related to the HNS. Now a man is asking himself whether we can move away from that work or we can't get away from it that little bit here, little party personnel are pushing there, or try to see that really professional people end up in the right places, especially in such an important institution as HACOM. So that someone wouldn't say Maras here has a priori negative party attitude, I say about Mr. Ossued I've heard all the best about his profession, his abilities, etc. Yeah, it's not exactly a good-looking circumstance that she's a minister's brother, but a man with his career and his references can support that place he's nominated for. On the other hand, we see that in this situation immediately the first man came from a whole other world, unrelated to that profession, with very little or almost no experience if we except that the Faculty of Traffic Sciences is one piece covering and that area, one can say that, but I don't know now which direction exactly the man has finished so I can't catch myself with the certainty of it. But it is evident that we have not strayed, but unfortunately our colleagues, that is, here in the Parliament, and until yesterday's coalition partners continue with their good practice of collecting support in the Parliament and most of them through the placement of certain personnel, and that is something we have witnessed for many years. I have to say, personally, I wasn't the happiest person to see it as a coalition partner, and I've always had a bad feeling that I finally came true, but I hope we'll end up with it. I am sure that we will end up with this, if nothing at the end of this election cycle because voters will recognize it, they will simply no longer see the point of rewarding foreigners who are then just looking through the monetization in certain places and keeping as much and as long as possible in power. So I'm going to discuss at the Club of Representatives of the SDP how we're going to be asked about this, but what I'm not happy with, although I don't think he's the former director, they've had a lot of people objecting to his work, but I have to take a certain dose of skepticial work with regard to these elements that I said, which is that he's not chosen exclusively by professional refrencies, but there's been a lot of observations of party refrencies. But once again, I'm going to say that someone doesn't think that I'm a priori against the man he's proposing is because of what's from the other party, I have to confess once again here that the gentleman who's proposed to be director of the board of directors is really qualified and able to do that job. But as far as this will be possible under the given circumstances of political trade, we will only see this and therefore I have a reserve for the whole process which, once again I will say, is a very important place, a very important institution. We will also talk in the next points about what and how to develop in Croatia related to light infrastructure or cables that unfortunately Croatia does not yet have throughout its territory. And on this side, we are still far behind the developed countries, which certainly helps that the Croatian economy is not at the level of competitiveness it should be at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80734	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80735	(a) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President, the Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities and (a) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President, the Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, is hereby concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President, Vice-President and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Please, let's vote. I find that most 90 votes for and 21 abstentions have been made in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 1. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice-president and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for and 21, are abstentions and 5 votes against decisions taken to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80736	We are now going to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 329. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure adopted on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda a proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The honorable secretary of state at the ministry is being made by Mr Darko Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, I welcome you all together. So before you, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation is also called the GDP of the Regulation. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all EU Member States. Member States are obliged under the regulation to provide for a legislative framework that will allow for the implementation of the regulation for which this law is actually adopted. Certain articles of the Regulation allow Member States to establish, through the adoption of laws, additional rules and to resolve issues which are not specific to the regulation itself. This proposal sets out the additional powers of the supervisory authority because, under this Regulation, the States are obliged to designate a supervisory authority to monitor the application of the Regulation. In the final proposal of the law that is before you, it is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, and the countries are also responsible for determining the accreditation agency in this case and in this proposal of the law, it is the Croatian Accreditation Agency. The Agency for the Protection of Personal Data has so far had the status of a legal person with public authority in the current law. This proposal makes it an independent and independent state body, stressing the purpose and importance of that body. In fact, the protection of personal data is one of the fundamental human rights of individuals, and it is estimated that it is best to care for it by an independent state body. The most debate on the adoption of this Regulation, or the very proposal for this law, may have triggered Article 83(6) of the Regulation, which provides for the imposition of administrative fines. This is something that I have mentioned in this law and in this article, which I have mentioned, and the amounts themselves have caused a lot of controversy in our public as well. This is about penalties of up to 20 million euros, or up to 4% of the total income of a particular company, company or someone who could be punished for using this data. So it is not the purpose of this law that I must point out to punish these people with such amounts, the purpose of this law is exactly the opposite, and it will not, by any means, be immediately imposed in the light of Article 58 of the Regulation and of what we have built into this law. This law, namely this final proposal, also provides for the processing of personal data in special cases with respect to information society services, the processing of genetic data, the processing of biometric data and the processing of personal data through video surveillance. In relation to the provision of information society services directly on the child's proposal for a law, it is prescribed that the processing of child's personal data is legal if the child is at least 16 years old and the age limit of the child prescribed by the General Data Protection Regulation. So here's what I'd really like to say, today I've talked to the committees on many occasions about this topic. I expect, of course, your questions, suggestions, amendments and everything else, so here I am, going to show myself individually on each of your proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80738	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80739	Thank you very much, Mr. Neklic. What I'm interested in, I think I strongly support this Regulation, I think it's something that's necessary. We see a debate that prompted the testimony of founders and owners of Facebook Mark Zuckenberg in the American Congress, you see that it is not uncommon for people to witness about various topics every day in Congress, unlike those of us who are closing Agrokor, others are opening up everything that the citizens are interested in. I am interested in how much the agency has been capacitated to control such companies in the Republic of Croatia because a lot of companies in the Republic of Croatia collects personal data from our citizens, that I do not now cite institutions from the banking sector, telecoms and can also trade and treat them inappropriately, the security of these data is also questionable. I would like to know how much the agency is able to carry out this job at all and what your plan is, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to train the Agency that a really full lung can bring this Regulation into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80740	Thank you. The answer of the respected secretary of state, Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80741	Well, at this point, it means, after this Law is passed and after the application of the Regulation begins, the first job we have is to select the director and the deputy director who will then continue to work on the Agency's capacitations. I can't tell you exactly at this point whether the agency is sufficiently capacitated to implement all of this planned in the Regulation, but we've accepted and we need to provide the Agency with means that we need to secure all the capacities we've accepted through this Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80742	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to ask if the Committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by the esteemed representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go. ... I believe that we will have to as a practice, it does not say in the Rules of Procedure, but we will have to introduce as a parliamentary practice that, except in exceptional cases, when someone gets sick or something like that, the one who reports talks. [[You can't hear it.]] Because it has become almost a regular custom, at least for some to constantly change speakers, clubs, etc. which then creates here, situations like this now that in the end even a speaker on behalf of the club doesn't know that he should speak on behalf of the club. Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation is, as the name says, an implementing law in which we also introduce additional implementing provisions, particularly relating to a body that will monitor the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation adopted by the EU, so EU bodies. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation with the Final Proposal for a Law shall also elaborate on a constitutional provision on the protection of personal data. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following The Republic of Croatia has been prescribed to guarantee the security and secrecy of personal data. Without the consent of the subject, personal data may be collected, processed and used only under the conditions laid down by law. The law regulates data protection and control of the operation of information systems in the country, and prohibits the use of personal data contrary to the purpose of their collection. This Act, i.e. the General Data Protection Regulation, also has important economic and social consequences. Its implementation will affect thousands of legal and natural persons who collect and process personal data, and we consider protection of personal data to be one of the fundamental human rights. We welcome the planned administrative strengthening of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data because the current number of employees will not be able to properly implement the envisaged measures particularly in the direction of educating citizens on their rights and providing professional assistance to entrepreneurs in the application of the rules. The agency's internal structure makes a few new rules. The legal person with public authority provides for a transformation into an independent and independent state body operated by civil servants, i.e. a director and deputy as state officials. But whether the agency will remain independent and independent if their employees become civil servants and their sole income is from the state budget. Why not strengthen the financial independence of the Agency by providing them with income from the Agency's activities and the equal position of the Agency's employees through general labour rules. It is a good solution for the Croatian Parliament to appoint the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency, which gives us some guarantees of independence, but also the procedure for proposing candidates should be given to the parent parliamentary board, not to the Ministry of Administration, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is formally proposing candidates for director and deputy Croatian Parliament. We consider it a good solution in the Law in which children are protected by the age of 16, and before that it is important to educate parents on the protection of their personal data, and this agency's work must be more visible in cooperation with other organisations and state bodies. We would also point out some remarks on the law and some of the remarks we saw in the public debate, which were not accepted by the legislator. The proposed law should extend the activities of the Agency in a way that actively promotes the knowledge of the protection of personal data, raises awareness and information about the role of the protection law, keeps the data protection officer register and publishes the following data from the same, leaders, or processors and contact details, including the address of the electronic mail of data protection officers, which would strengthen citizens' trust in the work of the Agency. The Agency shall, as a measure, impose high administrative penalties for infringements of the provisions of the law and of the General Data Protection Regulation in accordance with Article 83 of the General Data Protection Regulation. However, the agency will not fine, for example. The ministries, government offices, cities, municipalities and counties. One of the arguments put forward by the applicant is that this is the same budget, so it would be the overflow of funds from one budget to another. However, fines are effective, and this sends a message to citizens that there are some persons and functions that will not respond in cash if they abuse personal data. We believe there should be no exemption from fines for the heads of those bodies. Moreover, if the administrative fine is imposed against a legal person with public authority or against a legal person performing a public service, the fine imposed shall not jeopardise the exercise of such public authority or public service. We wonder why such a situation would not have both small and medium-sized enterprises of the association and similar legal entities which could also be at risk of carrying out their activities. We regret that quite late this bill comes to the Croatian Parliament, in the light of the final proposal of the law, that we did not have a regular procedure of adoption, so that it is possible to install the comments of MPs and clubs in the final draft of the law. We believe that the new agency will protect the personal data of all citizens and guarantee all legal and physical persons their independence, independence and guarantee high professional and ethical standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80744	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Andrija Mikulic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80745	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. We have before us a draft draft law on the implementation of a general data protection regulation with a final proposal for a law. The law implementing the General Data Protection Regulation will therefore allow for the implementation of the 2016 Regulation. The European Parliament and the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 94/46 of the EC, i.e. the General Data Protection Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is fully binding and directly applicable in all EU Member States. This law should be adopted by the date of application of the General Data Protection Regulation, i.e. until 25 May 2018, in order to ensure the conditions for its application and, above all, to establish the national supervisory authority responsible for implementing and monitoring the application of this Regulation. The General Data Protection Regulation is fully binding and directly applicable in all EU Member States. The General Regulation also prescribes, among other things, what all Member States are required to regulate by law, and what Member States can regulate by law. The proposed law significantly regulates the establishment of a supervisory authority and its additional powers, the Croatian accreditation agency as a body responsible for accreditation of certification bodies, the processing of personal data in special cases such as child's consent to information society services, the processing of genetic data, the processing of biometric data and the processing of personal data through video surveillance, and the procedure in the jurisdiction of the supervisory authority and the legal medicines and administrative fines. The proposal for a law proposes that the supervisory authority be the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data as an independent state body, in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation. Therefore, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, which now has the status of a legal person with public authority, becomes an independent and independent state body and continues to work under the same name. The Director and Deputy Director of the Agency shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of a public call for the delivery of applications, which shall be published by the Ministry of Administration. In accordance with the general Regulation, the power of the Agency to impose administrative fines for infringements of this law and of the General Data Protection Regulation shall be determined. Administrative fines shall be imposed with a measure or instead of measures prescribed by the General Data Protection Regulation. In accordance with this Regulation, which provides that each Member State may lay down rules, whether and to what extent the public authorities or bodies established in that Member State may impose administrative fines. Therefore, the draft law prescribes the exclusion of administrative fines for state administration authorities and other state bodies and units of local and regional, or regional self-government. The imposition of administrative fines in each individual case for infringement of certain provisions of this General Data Protection Regulation must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. However, by punishing the public authority, by giving administrative fines to public authorities, the purpose of the punishment would not be achieved, given that the funds for the work of those bodies are provided in the state budget. Therefore, the payment of administrative fines from the public authorities would only represent the transfer of appropriations from one budget item to another. In particular, it is noted that the supervisory authority may forward to the public authorities any other measure prescribed by the General Data Protection Regulation, which the supervisory authority makes in the exercise of, investigative, collective and advisory powers. Furthermore, the bill provides for the processing of personal data in specific cases, as I said earlier, of child's consent in relation to information society services, the processing of genetic data, and the processing of geometric data, and the processing of personal data through video surveillance. In relation to the provision of information society services directly to a child, the proposal for a law provides that the defence of personal data to a child is legal if the child is at least 16 years old. Therefore, the age limit of the child prescribed by the General Data Protection Regulation and for the purpose of protecting children residing in the Republic of Croatia is prescribed. The processing of genetic data and the processing of biometric data shall be governed in accordance with the general Regulation, also on data protection, under which Member States may retain or introduce additional conditions, including restrictions, in view of the defence of genetic data, biometric data or health data. The proposed law prohibits the processing of genetic data, for the purposes of calculating the appearance of disease and other health aspects, subjects in the framework, operations for the conclusion or execution of life insurance contracts and life insurance contracts, where neither the consent of the subjects can lift that prohibition. In relation to data processing through video surveillance, it is also proposed to regulate this law, because of the problem the agency has encountered so far in practice, which are related to unclear and outdated regulations in the area. In particular, video surveillance of working rooms, business residential buildings and public areas is being edited. And in relation to the procedure in the jurisdiction of the Agency and the legal medicines, it is prescribed that the infringement of the right of the Agency is decided by a decision adopted in the administrative procedure against which the appeal is not authorised, but the appeal may be brought before the competent administrative court. Furthermore, the amount of fines for infringements initiated by the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency and by the Agency’s official shall be prescribed, in the event that the unauthorized person reveals confidential information, which he has learned in his or her duties, that is to say, in the performance of the workplace he has been assigned to. Administrative fines for breach of the provisions of this law, relating to the processing of personal data through video surveillance, are also prescribed. Finally, the HDZ Club will support such a proposal for a law implementing a general data protection regulation with a final bill, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80746	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm going to split the debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club into two parts. One is the part that speaks of the general regulation itself. I don't think there should be too many words here. It is a good legal act, a legal act, which is as such binding, for all EU Member States, a legal act, which is a future regulation and directly applicable throughout the EU territory. The final line is a legal act, in which the adoption of which was also part of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia, because for all acts adopted by the EU, we have a system in which Member States participate, either through their representatives in the European Parliament or through representatives of the Government, acting in bodies such as the Council or the European Council, and in many cases, in most cases, by joint action by those bodies. Therefore, the regulation in question will increase the protection of citizens' rights, enable better protection of their privacy, prevent a whole range of legal persons from collecting data, which they really do not need. They really don't need them, and we really don't have to go into some kind of criminal situation, which would be best described by the fact that the bank has to know what my shoe number is, when I'm making a request for a loan. Well, similar situations, unfortunately, happen too often in Croatia. Therefore, of course, that part of the act we are talking about, which is the regulation itself, has full support for the SDP. However, the second part of this act, which is its Susus and which is what we are discussing and what is the content of the decision taken by the Croatian Parliament, is how the rights resulting from the general regulation will be protected, controlled and supervised in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Now that is already a national issue and there are already EU Member States, autonomous, in the good part of the autonomous way in which they will handle it. With the government's proposal in this part of the regulation to exercise control, we can't agree. So let's move forward, the first thing that is not acceptable to us, is the fact that this agency, no matter what it gets, is highly increased powers, no matter what it gets a new status, where it is no longer a public institution, but an independent state body, will continue to be managed, in exactly the same way as it has been so far. So, the agency will have a director, deputy director, director and deputy director to propose in a relatively non-transparent procedure the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament will hope to do so a little more extensively than last week, when we appointed the agency's temporary director, and that's that. No, I don't. We believe that for an agency that can impose such penalties as was spoken of by an esteemed colleague of the State, and if I am not mistaken, fines amount to 20 million euros, in exceptional cases. So, the agency that has such powers must be led by us in a much more transparent way, and we in the Croatian legal order have examples of how this can be regulated. For example, one example is the Agency for the Protection of Competition, another is the Agency for Electronic Media. Both agencies have great importance in implementing EU law and have the same position or comparable position as will be given to the Personal Data Protection Agency after the adoption of this law. But what is the orderly way of managing these agencies? So they have a council run by these agencies, a five-member council of which is one president of the council. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the SDP has sent a series of amendments proposing that the role of the Director of the Agency and the Deputy Director should be amended in a way that the Council for the Protection of Personal Data, whose head would be the President of the Council, representing the Council and replacing in certain situations what the Director has been working on so far. Another proposal with which we are not in agreement, which I have already touched, the way the Director is elected, or what we are proposing, to the council. We believe that contrary to the government's proposal, the procedure should be initiated by the Croatian Parliament. For example, we faced a situation a few days ago that literally at 5 to 12 we appointed the attorney general. The government waited for months and never came out with a proposal. On the other hand, today, the Croatian Parliament has launched the selection procedure of the Commissioner for Information six months before the mandate expires exactly in accordance with the legal deadlines, on the day of compliance with what is prescribed by the law. We do not deny the ruling majority the right to ultimately choose the person they consider most suitable for the management of this agency. In a way, it's their right. However, we believe that this procedure, as prescribed by law in the case of the Commissioner for Information, is much better, more transparent and will ensure that, even in the case of the Commissioner for Information and, according to our proposal and the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data, we do not bring into that Zeit note in which we were last week. We therefore propose that the procedure be conducted in a way that is within the scope of the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights, which would publish a public call and then carry out the application procedure. What does that mean? This means that all candidates who report will have the opportunity to talk to members of the Human Rights Committee of the Croatian Parliament and all other parliamentary representatives, and will have the opportunity to present themselves and their programme to the Croatian public long before they are finally elected. We believe that this will achieve not only the transparency of the election, but also the transparency of the work of the Personal Data Protection Agency. We also propose that, following the example of the other regulatory bodies, the mandate of the members of the council is set for 5 years, because we believe that the mandate of the members of the council is somewhat separate from the parliamentary elections and encourages their independence in the work which is also directly resulting not only from the general regulation but from the judicature of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which is, for example, in the case of Hungary when Hungary tried to resolve its head person for the protection of personal data, said that the state should do so only in strictly and exceptionally prescribed legal reasons. I will stand here with questions concerning the management of the agency and I will touch on something my predecessors and colleagues from MOST and colleagues from HDZ spoke about. Yeah, it's partly true. It is a bit of a strange situation in which you would charge the budgetary a fine which is then paid in the budget. Yeah, but he's got his logic. If the budgetary user violates the provisions of the law, he will pay the fine and will pay both the Government and the Parliament when he presents his report, he will have to explain why he has paid the fine and why he has put himself in a position to suffer other projects because of his unhappiness or illegal work. And in such a situation, of course, there should be a resolution of the head of the body. But I said they're only partially right. And why are they only partly right? Because we had a whole series of legal entities with public powers that are not financed from the budget, which make their incomes come true. But they have public authority. And in accordance with the provisions of this law, when you read an article of the law that explains certain terms in that law, and those legal persons would be exempt from the obligation to pay administrative penalties and when they act illegally. And finally, we have local self-government units. Local self-government units are public authorities in accordance with this law. They don't receive funds from the budget, they have revenues. And since they're breaking the law, they won't be sanctioned because we in the SDP think it's wrong. That is why we have submitted the amendment here, where we are very simply proposing that we delete the article of this 47th law as unnecessary and wrong because we believe that everyone who has broken the law must bear the penalty for it. Taking into account all these remarks made by the law implementing the general regulation, the SDP Representatives' Club will be abstentioned when voting unless the amendments we have proposed are accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80748	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80749	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us the Law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, it is about a regulation that has been adopted at EU level and it is about the regulations that EU Member States have incorporated into their domestic legislation and in the part where it is more consistent, or where there is no possibility of action clearly in the way that it is defined. And now we come to the part where every legislation must define certain elements and the way it will. In this regard, we should bear in mind several facts that should be repeated, that we are indeed participants in the changes that occur from day to day, that we are participants in the importance of protecting personal data, that we also have opportunities to see that personal data were actually used in a variety of ways. In this case, the most recent example we can talk about Cambridge Analyticals where data was reportedly 50 million people who were on Facebook pages, but you can also see that when you're on individual pages and if you're looking for information, say, now is the time of spring, summer, so the ladies may be looking for information about some beauty salons and the rest, the next day when you report or the day after that, you'll suddenly get a series of cosmetic salons. First you will open them when you try to look for some other information that says that the absolute world of the Internet or all of those movies that we have seen and that we seem to be not present in our working and life span and that our data is very open and very accessible. And that is why it is extremely important for this regulation and it is important that we try to protect our personal data to the full and that it will be in that part and one of the great revolutions and in the field of general information. And what does Croatia do? Croatian makes it that she has turned her agency into a supervisory body so far, and why it is in the emergency procedure or is not just an EU argument of legislation, and I have said on several occasions from this speaker that I have absolutely understood why something is in the first and second readings, not only is it in the parentheses of the EU and some other reasons, including the importance of the date 25 May 2018 and the need for application. And now we're coming up with the way we turned one agency into another agency. In doing so, we have several examples in Croatia when we have done so in a way that is undoubtedly an office, and this is the Agency for the Protection of the Competition that works. It turned out to be working in a good way and somehow a model to make this agency look like a good model. However, the legislator did not decide, and I can somehow tell from this pay phone that he may have been a little caught, that as he often knows us regardless of when something seems to be very far away, then we are a little more casual and when the dates get closer, then we get a little bit caught up in it and we go with the most pragmatic solutions possible. However, I who advocate pragmatism and think that it is a well-pragmatic solution and are not always the best solutions. We also had the opportunity to see when there was the appointment of a top state attorney that we had set up a series of new topics and a series of new ideas and that some extension from four years to five would be absolutely acceptable and absolutely welcome. And what's extremely important is that we really start working. I don't think that dragon measures are the best possible measures for the simple reason that throughout history has proven that it's not always the best, that somehow the first warning, and behind that really measures. However, it must really be shown that everyone who reads personal data is counting on it, that wrongly reading personal data and searching for anything when you are asked for personal information that it is absolutely wrong, that our personal data is, and that one of the hot ones is the OIB that we can all identify ourselves by and you stay a little confused when you see who's all the barata team, that this should come to an end and that all those who misusing it should really bear the consequences. Here when you see special cases, then among other things there are isolated data used for statistics, but there we must be careful. In particular, we will need to be careful about biometric data because they are much larger than this data and there is a special topic of video surveillance. That video surveillance, we'll see what happens. So what might be convenient for you to consider is the following, in the city of Zagreb a project is going to be called a project of the city of Zagreb in the protection of facades against vandalism, or that the facades are not stained. Among other things, he's moving with the installation of video surveillance on the building so that then we can see who's painting without knowing how the process will go on. However, this video surveillance that is on the building and on which more than 50% of the owners of that building will agree to install it and it is not so cheap, it always includes part of the public area because it is especially the facade that you cannot agree to video surveillance in a way that does not include part of the public surface, so it will be interesting to see and we have a special provision that speaks of video surveillance when it comes to residential buildings, video surveillance when it comes to public surfaces, which part of which will be used and how. In other words, somehow I would conclude, and as my predecessors have said, in the part where we build provisions or obligations as members of the EU that we have no doubt. Always in the part where it gives us the opportunity for local legislation to sort it out a little bit in a different way we, of course, have a tendency to solve it a little differently. So we at GLAS and HSU would always advocate the option, for the variant that when we do and have the opportunity to take good examples that we already have in the practice of the Republic of Croatia, and not to take those examples that are from our pragmatism or speed or deadlines, we decide to do so, so in that part we will see how the legislator will react to the amendments that we are actually trying to bring together this part of the agency in a way that is more transparent, that it is clearer and that what is already in some other agencies in the Republic of Croatia we have in relation to how the legislator reacts to the amendments, we at GLAS will also vote on this law implementing the general regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80750	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative Maria Puh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80751	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. For two days, we are divided into 2 years from the adoption of a general regulation on the protection of personal data known to the general public under its own acronym of the European Parliament and which, within exactly one month from today, is being applied directly in all EU Member States. Perhaps in some ways we could say that this is 5 to 12, but it's important that we get there in time, even if I believe it might be easier for all business entities who are obliged to follow the regulation to prepare and be safer with the regulation itself. What the regulation provides is a uniform treatment of data protection supervisors across the EU, which will result in simpler, more equal protection of the rights of all individuals in the EU. If we needed uniform legislation on the protection of personal data, it is best to be seen on the recent Facebook case and Cambridge analysts who collected and kept data on us that were not really necessary and were not even allowed to collect and store them. I believe that many times, when we applied to various applications, various web sites on the Internet, those statements of denial of responsibility and just clicked next, next, next, because it was actually impossible to read all those huge amounts of fine letters, but the most common language those statements were written was extremely complicated and sometimes totally incomprehensible to citizens. What I am pleased with is that the general regulation prescribes that in the future any information intended for the public or the subject must be summarised, that it must be easily available and understandable and that a clear and simple language must be used. And, of course, it also allows for visualisation if necessary. It used to happen several times to me when I wanted to change some of my settings either on Facebook or on another social network, sometimes it took me literally half an hour and more to actually find out which one of these information is and that I can change it, now they will have to point it out in places that are easily available and understandable to everyone. Article 52 of the Regulation provides that each Member State shall ensure that the supervisory authority in a Member State has human, technical and financial resources. Let's say in some way I followed the work of our Personal Data Protection Agency, and if I'm not mistaken according to their latest report, they had 28 employees, and systematicization allowed them to have 34 employees. Whether this will be enough to comply with the regulation and for the very application of the regulation, I doubt it. I looked around the internet a little bit, and just for comparison as much as possible, the Slovenian Supervisory Authority, which will follow the regulation on protection under the general regulation, has 41 employees, and we all know that almost half of them are less than our Croats, so I definitely think that we need to shape the agency in a way that is ready and able to carry out the tasks assigned to it under the regulations. I would look further at Article 9 of the general Regulation itself, determine specific categories of data which determines that each Member State has the right to introduce additional conditions and restrictions and related to the processing of genetic, biometric or health-related data. In our law in Chapter 4, we have prescribed everything except health data, and we know that the processing of health data has been increasing lately and is a key element in life insurance contracts, so here I suggest and we have submitted one day of amendment to put in an article that will define the data relating to health. Also, I just believe that this was a failure, and in the same chapter there was no subtitle to the processing of genetic data above Article 20 that defines it, so we also submitted an amendment to make the law more technically correct and legible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I believe that in our law, we should also put in place one provision to determine that the right to seek certificates of impunity is subject only to those institutions and those employers who are specifically prescribed to have the right to do so. We all know that in our constitution, we have a presummation of innocence that everyone is innocent of until a judicial verdict finds him guilty. This would be if some employers asked their employees to give them a statement that they were not prosecuted, that no proceedings were being conducted, if any proceedings were under way, they would not be able to obtain that confirmation and there would be a question of the employment of those citizens. And what's left of me in the air reading both the Law and the Law itself, I haven't noticed a mention of old age. Do we perhaps need to define in our law a statute of limitations for procedures that are not in accordance with the law, perhaps we should consider a reasonable limitation period that we should put into the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80752	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate and the first to appear is Honored Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80753	Thank you very much. I'll just say it for a second. So we're talking about the Personal Data Regulation. So we can vote for her, we have no rights, except this part of the implementation, we give amendments. So what was written and prescribed for us in this way about data protection can be voted on, which came from the EU. So, every debate about something, when we talk about personal data in this way, where we don't have to influence the amendment is superfluous because it's simply those directives that we have to accept or don't accept, even though the Law on residence and the Law, so here, the banks, all of them have our data that they're dealing with whatever they want, so I doubt that in the implementation, I'm sorry, but I doubt it, I'd like to have protected data and a number of other data coming out to whom they fit and how it suits them. So here we are, I am giving up further debate on why we are talking here about a Regulation that we cannot amend, except that we can change this part of the law where we are talking about the implementation of this Regulation. So, when we are in pre-accession negotiations like all the directives that are coming to us, we can change very little, everything they have agreed because there is a Parliament in fact, at this point very little can contribute to something so that this should not have been the government's proposal at all, this could have been the Proposer and the Committee. In short, if it can explain how much we can influence the Regulation itself and how much this debate is aimed at, and how much this debate is about, that we can change something in the regulation itself. I'm not talking about implementation, and otherwise in Croatia, how many laws are prescribed... , here, I would just like to explain to the motionor on behalf of the Government how much we as parliamentary representatives, as this largest body in the Republic of Croatia can influence this Regulation in data protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80754	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80755	Dear Mr. MP, as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, I would expect you to have studied the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and that you know then that there is something called parliamentary oversight of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the bodies of the EU. Any EU act adopted by the Council and the European Parliament comes to the Croatian Parliament and we, MPs, so you and I, are assessing whether we will discuss it, whether we will refer it to a reasoned opinion, and I must remind you that two years ago it was the Croatian Parliament who stopped the adoption of one EU act by reason of opinion. So, I ask you not to refer matters concerning parliamentary procedures and the work of the Croatian Parliament to representatives of the Government, but to take the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament into your hands and to learn how we act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80756	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80757	Comrade coat of arms, I'm clear here on what you want to say. I can only tell you my position. So we have a regulation ahead of us, and I've made that clear, and you can't influence it either, you can accept it or you can't accept it. You can only influence the bill where the implementing part is, and otherwise we know what kind of implementation in Croatia, you will now explain it when it comes to the Executive Act because when we were giving amendments that you accepted it by hand. So it's clear here. We are talking about directives and, of course, when we entered the EU that we entered the pre-accession negotiations that we have signed a number of directives that have simply come to this Parliament and because of such a policy, Parliament has lost the power to be parliamentary representatives, the people's representatives who decide, and this is how others decide for us, and we are left here to accept or not accept. With the amendment to the Regulation we can't influence it, you know it well, you just wanted your legal domination to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80758	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80759	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President. Of course, in this debate the previous one fully agrees with his colleague, the coat of arms. It can be influenced and we proved it in countless, or in several cases, not exactly in... in several cases we have proven and I think that we will prove it in the future, but what we should say is, in this Regulation and although some things Croatia is a small country in the EU, if it is proposed it does not have to be accepted and not accepted in some things, it can protect its national interest, but this is one of the regulations that shows how good it is, that the Republic of Croatia is part of the EU, or how good it is that we are part of a large market, because, for example, the Republic of Croatia is making such a law only in the field of its territory, then probably world technological giants such as Google, Microsoft, Twitter and others would not even blink or be particularly interested in what is there in some of our legislation writing and not being prepared for the implementation of that regulation, and therefore I think that Mr Neelic in his introductory presentation, has not been a good influence and not at all this punishment of companies with a certain amount, which, if companies live and work with personal data of our citizens, and must protect them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that applies not only to companies that are on the market, but also to the state and to all those who deal with these data. And if Croatia were not part of the EU, certainly Google, Microsoft, Twitter and other companies, Facebook would not invest so much now in preventing, eventually leaving or eradicating these personal data from our citizens from their platforms. Because now, by adopting this regulation and by implementing it, our fellow citizens and all our partners and other EU citizens will be able to request, for example, the permanent erasure of personal data, which these companies have collected and which they may also trade in the open market within their relations with other technology companies. So this is one big step forward, because, for example, the EU market, of 600 million people, accounts for around 1/3 of all incomes, such as Google. Imagine how powerful that is. So the US market and the EU market are the main markets of Google, Facebook and all other major technology companies from the silicon valley, which have developed their data, i.e. their jobs and their business activities, except that a large amount of people are collected on their social networks using their social services and they have a large amount of data available to people in one virtual place, where they can then monetize their business. And that's why it's not harmless at all and these penalties aren't too high, because when we talk about 20 million euros, then we always have to have in our head, for example one Facebook that makes billions and billions of dollars at an annual level or Google, etc. etc. Which means that these companies will safely invert to security for the storage of our data, they will surely react in a way that allows people to trust more and more what is being solved with their data. But what's important and I'm not satisfied with, although there are such companies of course in Croatia, which, in this way, also have access to specific data on the market, probably, never one aspect of this type has been made. So we have technology companies, we have companies that produce software all kinds of different games that are used on androids and on iPhone systems, etc. who also have very many users and who work in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Now I ask the question, is it ever and perhaps Mr. Nejdić can answer me, whether one such surveillance by the agency or any other relevant state institutions, that people who use these services can be sure that their personal data are properly protected. For example, in telecoms and banking systems. Because I'm sure someone wouldn't be happy to have certain data, someone in the banking system, except, of course, it doesn't refer to the data of our official, who we publicly publish, but the citizens have the right to that kind of privacy. And then I wonder, has one control ever been made? And for this reason, the announcement of such a regulation with such penalties, which will not remain indifferent to either banks or telecom systems, gives me a certain guarantee that they, without that control, which has not been carried out so far, will invest in personal data security officers, who will have to be present in their systems, in that they are not illegally trading, etc., etc. What also concerns me, which Mr. Nekic, also told me, in the introduction, when I said, on the replica of my opinion, is that it is evident from that answer, that the agency is not even aware of the width of the business that will now receive and control it will have to carry out, and the personal capacitated human, i.e., human, or humane, I think it is still beyond any radar of the thinking, head or leadership of that organization. Because it won't be, let's be honest, possible easy to find. So now you should get educated people quality in the agency, which will be informative, not only informative but technologically written, to control those who are four times more paid than they are in the IT company, either in the bank or in the telecoms. So how's that, I mean, I really want to know how it's going to be regulated? And I'm not even indisposed to try to do it with exorcism. It means that companies that are able to pay so many of these experts who will then have quality oversight for the state, that is, the agency that will be able to do so. So we have a lot of stuff to do. That's certainly necessary, because that market, virtually, that exists, is not yet normized at all, trust me with the data is doing everything, it's being monetized anyway, each of us gets certain ads on his mobile devices, on preferences that are collected one way or the other. So that market should be regulated and monitored, because it is not the point of profit of these large corporations, but the security and trust of our citizens in protecting their fundamental human rights, and that is certainly the right to privacy, or that they can be sure that someone will not abuse the data, which is collected, when using certain social networks etc. So we've seen what this can lead to and I'm going to say once again, here, Mr. Vice President, you've been quite active here when hearings are being held at the U.S. Congress and the Senate, and then it's being followed by the whole world, and there's no question of whether or not they should be asked whether or not they should be asked whether or not, or about Facebook that's been committed to criminal proceedings and reconnaissance of certain American institutions, there was no problem for the public to hear what they're interested in. And we around Agrokor must not hear or ask anything, and that is something that also ruins the confidence of Croatian citizens because they feel that something is hiding, rather than being all transparent and accessible to the public. If a leader of a corporation who probably has the wealth and power that several people in the world have to answer to elected citizens' representatives, I don't see why it was impossible for us when there was a question of Agrokor, no matter what investigative actions are being carried out there, are opening processes for the abuse of data use, etc. etc. And then maybe, Mr. Vice President, teach us a little bit about democracy, or what we're here for, and that's not to hide, but to be completely open to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80760	Thank you very much. And I want you to know that the president doesn't need to be half-limed, so the president won't be in the semi-liminal position with you, even though you've now broken the Rules of Procedure's speech, that's what you're hoping for. But good. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the secretary of state, the respected Darko Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am writing down everything that's been going on in all the clubs and in these individual debates. I think all these statements can be summed up into two basic objections. One is connected to the very structure of the agency, i.e. the way the Director and Deputy Director of the Agency will be elected. The second is related to Article 47, i.e. to the matter of penalties, i.e. the implementation of these penalties referred to in the very text of the Regulation in Article 83(6). Let me just say a few words about it, and I'll try to answer all those questions that were asked here in the debate. First, Article 53 of the Regulation lays down general conditions for members of the supervisory authority. It is therefore said in this article that Member States shall ensure that each member of their supervisory authority, in the context of a transparent procedure, appoints, be careful now, either Parliament or the Government or the Head of State or an independent body entrusted with that designation by a Member State. That's why I don't think I can and can't accept this argument that says this is a non-transparent election procedure or half-transparent, as the esteemed representative Grbin said. If we wanted to create a non-transparent system in the proposal, then we would certainly not have included the Croatian Parliament, or our Parliament in this whole story, because the regulation itself offers us the opportunity to be both the Government and the Head of State and even the independent body as stated here in this 4th paragraph. I think that the proposal is quite transparent, namely the Ministry of Administration calls a public call, that public call can be answered by anyone who meets the conditions and the Ministry of Administration is actually the first filter that, when the complete documentation is examined, will see who meets the conditions and who does not meet the conditions. Afterwards, these materials are sent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and are not written here in the law, or in the final proposal, it is not said that the Government will propose only one candidate to the Croatian Parliament. And in the end, it is this esteemed House that makes the final decision on who will be the director, or deputy director of this agency. The second concept that you have presented, which means practically complete changes in the structure of the agency, we will certainly study and this amendment here, which I received a few minutes ago, I will study and we will manifest ourselves on that amendment. As for one of the arguments, it is said, I think Mr. Podolnjak said that a rather late law comes to the Croatian Parliament. So he comes late because, as I said in my initial presentation, the regulation has been in effect since 24.5.2016. One year, the ministry, unfortunately, did not prepare itself for this implementation of the regulation until 5 months last year. What I can, as the oldest employee at the Ministry of Administration, say that we found a working group that held only one meeting on 10 April 2017 and that practically when Minister Kuščević came, re-organised the task force, included in that working group a number of experts from the economy and independent analysts who worked in it and joined this final bill proposal, and you know well that all opinions would come out and satisfy the whole procedure that includes certain time-consultation, opinions from all ministries needed somewhere between 100 and 120, 130 and even 150 days. The moment we started working on this regulation, we did everything possible to get her to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. However, the emergency procedure goes solely for the reason that by 255 we must, of course, determine which supervisory authority and which accreditation body it is, because it would be a question of the implementation of the regulation itself if we did not do so. The second part of your question was about punishment. I think that me and the distinguished representative Maras didn't understand very well, when I was talking about the penalties that were really under Article 83 paragraph 6 of the Regulation up to 20 million euros, or up to 4% of the total last year's income, I didn't mean Facebook, Google and all these giants of America, I was thinking about one condition that caused it, which means the very knowledge that the penalties are so great for Croatian entrepreneurs who are not as big as Google, Facebook and all of these others that you mentioned. So, as far as the punishment itself is concerned, we have indeed foreseen in Article 47 that in the proceedings carried out against the public authorities, no administrative penalty can be imposed on the public authority. However, this does not mean that all these other types of penalties provided for in Article 58 of the Regulation cannot apply to it. So it's exclusively about fines because we were in a position not to have any purpose of being transferred from one body financed from the state budget to the state budget again that amount of money that will be provided for penalties. This does not mean that the responsible persons, in this case in Article 50 or 51, will not pay fines. It will be the heads of the processing and processing processors who have prevented the fines of up to 50,000 kuna. In the event of a breach of all these provisions referred to in Article 51, and also in Article 50, a penalty for the duties of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency shall also be provided for to pay fines in the event of infringement of all these provisions referred to in this final proposal of the Law. As for the presentation and the amendments that we have received today, so I think about the issue of limitations, we will be manifested within an appropriate period of time until this law is voted on. And as for here at the end, I think you might agree with one statement that you said, Mr. Maras, which is that this is a big step forward in protecting personal data. So the implementation of this regulation and the adoption of this final bill will certainly contribute much, much better protection of personal data than it has ever been, even though it has been the Agency until now, you have referred this question and some of these supervisions are currently in the judicial process. Here I am today talking to the representatives of the agency who assure me that it is indeed so and that they have so far had no authority but to refer it to a court case, of course it is the courts that will ultimately make the decision. Here I hope that all that has been through this debate has answered all the questions, and all your amendments will be very carefully studied, thanks to all the clubs and everyone who has individually made these proposals and we will manifest ourselves to these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80762	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start from the end of your presentation, Your Honor, Secretary of State. No one questions that the protection of individuals' rights will increase with this. However, we are all complicated about this, and there are no doubts there except for some colleagues who are bothered by the way decision-making is taken at EU level, but that is another issue. Let's go to the part where you say about the punishment. Why are we going to a fine? Because fines are the most effective means. All of these other sanctions are methods that may be able to force those who have sinned to create something but the fine is most effective. And to conclude, yes, it is true that the regulation provides for the possibility of various bodies to name the leadership of an agency or an independent state body but we have the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which then defines within our legal order who will propose it or who will appoint it. The Croatian Parliament must appoint in any case, we are only changing the way we propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80764	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80765	Thank you very much. A fellow secretary of state mentioned, he's compromised the amount of fines and certain global companies, but I'll remind you that we in Croatia have a safe 50 and more companies that will think carefully about how they will treat personal data because these penalties will be motivated by them. This is what my colleague Grbin said. So for example, let's take the HPB that the bank has an income of 800 million kuna, so their maximum penalty can be at 32 million kuna per year. Now she will do everything in their power and must be more rewarding to invest in that security. It means they're investing a million, 2.5 million kuna instead of risking a fine of 32 million kuna. These are not only, so it is Internet companies, providers, telecoms, and there are many of them, and it is important that these penalties are at that level in order to further protect this market, or to invest those companies in their security or in the security of our personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80766	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when you get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80767	Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 329. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I therefore propose to vote to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 109 votes, we have decided to conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendments submitted. With us is a respected Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80768	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80769	You can explain all four amendments, then we'll open the debate, and then then vote for each individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80770	Thank you. Amendment 1 to the Art. 26, Article 2 is amended as follows: video surveillance may include premises, parts of premises, outer surface of the facility, as well as internal space in means of public transport, whose supervision is necessary for the purpose of achieving the purpose referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 26th century 2 added the words: as well as the internal space in public transport means with the intention to cover public transport funds carried out by public transport of passengers, for the safety and protection of passengers and property, as well as by train staff themselves. Amendment 2 to the Art. 30. century 1. is amended as follows: The processing of personal data of employees through a video surveillance system may be carried out only if the conditions laid down in this Act are met and the conditions laid down by the regulations governing protection at work and if employees have been appropriately informed of such a measure and if the employer has informed employees prior to the decision to set up a video surveillance system. Explanation. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 1(1) of the word is replaced individually by words in an appropriate manner for reasons which could lead to possible different interpretations due to the existence of different business processes requiring different means of notification sent to employees. Amendment 3, Art. 56. is amended as follows: The entry into force of this Act ceases to apply the Personal Data Protection Act, the Regulation on the method of management and the form of the personal data collections and the Regulation on the method of storage and the specific technical protection measures of the specific categories of personal data. Explanation. In the interests of the fact of the significantly shorter period between the adoption of this Act and its entry into force on 25 May 2018 from the original expectation and for the purpose of simplifying the complex legal situation which would result from the adoption of transitional and final provisions in the proposed form, it is necessary to prescribe the entry into force of the Law in full on 25 May 2018. On that day, it would cease to apply now the applicable Personal Data Protection Act and sublegal regulations adopted by the basis of that law. Amendment 4 to Article 57 is also amended and reads. The older version said: "This law will be published in the national newspapers, effective on 25 May 2018." For reasons of fact, a much shorter period between the adoption of this law and its entry into force on 25 May 2018 than originally expected, and for the purpose of simplifying the complex legal situation which would result from the adoption of transitional and final provisions in the proposed form, it is necessary to prescribe the entry into force of the law in full on 25 May 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80771	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm opening a debate now on the government's amendments. You're welcome to sit down, if anyone's answering for a word. If we don't, then we're going to vote. So I'm voting on the 1st amendment of the government, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, 0 abstentions and 4 against the 1st amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the second amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 82 for and 21 against the 2nd amendment of the Government and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. Let's go to Amendment No. 3. Likewise, Government. Please, let's vote. And this amendment got most of the vote 100 for, 2 against. So it is accepted and becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. And the last Fourth Amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I also find that we have accepted this amendment by majority vote, 99 for, 2 for and 4 for the government's amendment becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are now moving to a decision on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives, the SDP Representatives' Club, the HNS Liberal Democrats' Club, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists, MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandirdić, GLAS and HSU's Club of Representatives. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would like again the representative of the proponent of the respected Darko Nekic State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration to be shown about the amendments submitted. 1st Amendment is MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80772	Thank you. The government doesn't accept the amendment. Article 83(7) of the General Data Protection Regulation provides that each Member State may determine whether and to what extent public authorities in that Member State may impose administrative fines. In accordance with that Article of the General Regulation, this law exempts the public authorities from imposing administrative fines but not from the obligation to implement the General Data Protection Regulation as well as from any other measures prescribed by this Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80773	It's obvious you're welcome, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80774	Therefore, in your reasoning of the rejection of the amendment, you have read paragraph 7. The General Data Protection Regulation of Article 83 which truthfully states that each Member State may determine whether and to what extent public authorities in that Member State may impose administrative fines. And you decided to exclude them from it and punish the entrepreneurs. We believe that there should be no exception because this decision to reject this amendment is actually giving the citizens a message that there are still persons in this country, or functions that will not be punished if they abuse data, personal data that should actually be protected by this law. I also believe that I must mention that, as you have said, the fine has been pronounced against a legal person with public authority or against a legal person who carries out a public service imposed administrative fine must not jeopardise the exercise of such public authority or public service. Well tell me why, then, such a situation did not have small and medium-sized enterprises, associations and other legal entities whose fine could also endanger their business. It's just not right and it's not right of you as a representative of the government that you don't equate entrepreneurs and bodies of public authorities that you won't punish if they abuse information and entrepreneurs you will. I believe that we had meaning as it says in Article 83, you had the opportunity to even them out and you refused and it's simply not right for entrepreneurs and all the others who fill the state budget. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80775	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So let's go to Amendment No. 2. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80776	The Government does not accept that amendment. The proposed way of selecting the Director and Deputy Director is sufficiently transparent and does not in any way question the independence and independence of the Agency as a supervisory body as well as the powers of the Croatian Parliament to decide on the selection of the Director and Deputy Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80777	A fellow Downhill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80778	Thank you. By our amendment to Article 7(3), we have proposed that the Director and Deputy Director of the Croatian Assembly be elected on the proposal of the competent working body of the Croatian Parliament. And that the whole selection process of the director and his deputy takes place within the Croatian Parliament. Given that it is an independent and independent body, it makes no sense that the government is involved in the process and that it is the one that proposes the Director and Deputy. Based on the example of some other independent and independent institutions, so we also have the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest, we have the Commissioner for Information, in all cases the procedure is carried out within the Croatian Parliament and that is what we propose with the amendment, so we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80779	Let's also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment does not require a number of votes. The third amendment is that club of representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80780	The Government does not accept that amendment. The proposer proposes an amendment so that the appointment of the Director and the Deputy Director of the Agency would be independent of the cycle of parliamentary elections. However, given that the last parliamentary elections were held in 2016 and the selection of directors and deputy directors is to be made in 2018, there is no link between the moment of parliamentary elections and the election of directors and deputy directors. The general regulation says it cannot be a shorter term than 4 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80781	The obvious, fellow Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80782	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. So, this is about an amendment expected by a government's good will, and I would say not only good will but good practice for the EU. So this law that we're going to decide on today, we're not doing it for one term. And it is a common practice in EU countries that directors of such agencies are indeed appointed for 5 years. And it seemed that some good practice of other EU members should really be accepted, to show a step, but obviously there is no willingness to do so yet, so I would like to ask the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80783	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Now it's amendment number four, the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80784	The Government does not accept that amendment. The proposed amendment proposes that the management of the supervisory body be entrusted with a college body of 5 members or a council of which one is the President of the Council and that the selection of members of that college body be prescribed for the duration of the term of office and the possibility of re-election. In the light of the reasons for the submission of this amendment, the example of other similar bodies shall be pointed out by the Competition Agency and the Electronic Media Agency. However, the listed agencies are legal persons with public authority while under this law the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data changes its status, from a legal person with public authority becoming an independent state body. Independently and independently in his work. In addition, and in accordance with the usual practice in the Republic of Croatia, the state body is managed by the head of the body appointed as an individual and not by a collegiate body. We cite the example of the occupier and the Commissioner for Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80785	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80786	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, from your explanation, it is precisely the need for this new agency to be run by a collective body. Namely, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data will have more powers than the Agency for the Protection of Competition or the Agency for Electronic Media has. So there we decided on a collective body just to protect the rights of citizens under whose rights in their work, and the two agencies decide. I must remind you, though I'm sure you know this well, that this agency will be able to impose fines of 20,000 million euros. I'll repeat once again to make it clear to everyone, 20 million euros. I don't know if there's another agency in Croatia who can impose such punishment or if such punishment has ever been imposed in Croatia. And we place such punishment on one person. For me, it is personally unacceptable and also this amendment, given the importance of this body, we have predicted another, in our opinion a much better way of choosing, which is why, of course, we insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80787	Then let us approach the vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Here you go, buddy coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80788	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we had amendments directly related to this one, we withdraw amendments 2 to 8 and 10 to 12. SDP counseling club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80789	5, 7, 10, 11 and 12. Thank you. Then let's go to Amendment 6 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80790	The government accepts this amendment. The adoption of the amendments is proposed due to an additional provision which generally calls for a certain...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80791	You don't have to explain if you accept the amendment. Thank you, that amendment becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to the 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80792	The government does not accept this amendment. The proposed procedure for the resolution of the Director and the Deputy Director is sufficiently transparent and does not in any way question the independence and independence of the Agency as a supervisory body as well as the powers of the Croatian Parliament to decide on the resolution of the Director and Deputy Director.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80793	Thank you. Comrade Downhill, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80794	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with the earlier amendment that we have submitted to Article 7, this amendment is also going towards preserving the independence and independence of the Director of the Agency. It is logical that the process of appointment and procedure of resolution takes place within the Croatian Parliament. Finally, the Agency's report is also submitted to the Croatian Assembly. According to our proposal, the procedure for the discharge of the Director and his deputy would be launched on the proposal of the home working body of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, what will discuss the report, if it would assess the report as unfavourable, could then initiate the resolution procedure. Why the government? Why the government? If the report is accepted or not accepted in the Croatian Parliament, why the Government of the Republic of Croatia? How would this help to strengthen the independence and independence of that body? In our opinion, not at all. The government should be removed from the process right now. Why call on the competent working body to discuss it as the parent working body on the Director's report, why not have that authority to initiate the discharge procedure? This is a much more logical solution for us than for the government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure, and therefore we ask that the proposed amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80795	Let us then vote on a proposed amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment 9 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80796	The government accepts this amendment, but with the correction of one mistake because it mentions the Law on State officials, and the Law does not stand anywhere, but the Law on civil servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80797	An indication of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80798	We accept this argument and we give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80799	Thank you. The amendment then becomes part of the Law in content as proposed by the Proposer. Then let's go to, or the Prime Minister. SDP Club 10, SDP Club 11, SDP Representatives Club 12, we gave up on that. I thank you again, so let's now go to Amendment 13 of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80800	The Government does not accept those amendments for reasons of not accepting the amendments to the Article. Seven. The final proposal of the Law implementing the general regulation that I was already talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80801	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80802	A respected colleague of the state's secret seems to have read the wrong explanation. This is about an amendment to the article. 47th where we suggest deleting art That should be Amendment 9. ... [[Intruder President: No, Article 13]] But Amendment 9 in a row as proposed by us is the one. ... [[You can't hear it.]] No, no, but Amendment 9 as proposed by the Representatives' Club. [[You can't hear it.]] So we have a list of amendments as proposed in our document. Our 9th Amendment is an amendment to Art. 47. ... Well, then it's an amendment that's left. 47, and this amendment has been withdrawn. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80803	Thank you. We are now going to Amendment 14 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80804	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80805	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment number 15 of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80806	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80807	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 16 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80808	The government does not accept this amendment. The proposed provision would not ensure the safety of the subjects to a sufficient extent. Its purpose in relation to the insurance undertaking is also questionable. By prescribing the obligation to carry out an impact assessment on data protection and the prior consultation procedure with the supervisory authority, it does not mean that the implementation of those procedures will result in the granting of the supervisory authority's permission to process such a type of data for the purpose of concluding a life insurance contract. The government did not prohibit the processing of personal data relating to health, but we are in accordance with Article. 9, 1 and 2. Regulations leave every individual an opportunity to decide whether to allow processing of their personal health data. A Regulation shall apply directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80809	The obvious, esteemed colleague of the Pooh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80810	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80811	Thank you, so let's go to Amendment No. 17 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80812	The Government does not accept that amendment. The purpose of the order of the Member State shall be to: Article 32(2) is to highlight the obligation to carry out an impact assessment on data protection in accordance with Article 2. 35 of the General Data Protection Regulation whenever personal data processing is carried out through video surveillance of public areas. This is necessary in order to prevent the use of video surveillance of public areas without a prior impact assessment procedure on data protection, and the assessment is mandatory under the General Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80813	Here you go, fellow Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80814	We're giving up because of this argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80815	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number 18 of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80816	The Government does not accept that amendment. The Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Records and Rehabilitation provides for the establishment and power to keep criminal records, as well as the availability, making and deleting data from criminal records, as well as the international exchange of data from the criminal record. This law stipulates which national authorities have direct insight into criminal records and which, on their request, have the right to obtain data from the criminal record, and the data may only be used for the purpose for which they are issued. Therefore, it is not necessary to regulate the processing of personal data relating to criminal convictions and criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80817	Please show off. Comrade Pooh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80818	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80819	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number 19 of the SDP Representatives Club. ... And that one is withdrawn, thank you. [[You can't hear it.]] Then we go to the 20th Amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80820	The Government does not accept that amendment. The purpose of the provision in Art. It is necessary to prevent supervised persons from making observations to the monitoring report following the expiry of the prescribed period of 15 days referred to in paragraph 4 of that Article, thereby preventing the supervisory authority from continuing to act and completing the surveillance procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80821	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80822	We're withdrawing because of this argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80823	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 21 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80824	The Government accepts that amendment. The purpose of the part of the provision proposed to be deleted is to highlight in particular the fact that the supervisory authority also exercises supervision over public authorities in the implementation of which those bodies impose all types of measures for which the supervisory authority has been authorised in accordance with the general Regulation other than administrative fines. The bodies of the public authorities are financed from the state budget and the payment of the administrative fine in their case would represent the transfer of the appropriations from one budget item to another.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80825	It's obvious, colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80826	From that explanation, I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80827	Thank you. We are now going to Amendment SDP Representatives Club number 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80828	The Government does not accept that amendment. In accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation which provides that each Member State may lay down rules, whether and to what extent public authorities or bodies established in that Member State may impose administrative fines. This law provides for the exclusion of administrative fines to authorities of the state administration and other state bodies and units of local and regional self-government. The imposition of administrative fines in each individual case for infringements of certain provisions of the general Regulation must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. However, by punishing the public authorities by giving administrative fines to public authorities, the purpose of the punishment would not be achieved, since the means of working of those bodies are provided in the state budget. Therefore, the payment of administrative fines to public authorities would only represent the transfer of appropriations from one budget item to another. This does not mean that public authorities are exempt from any other measures prescribed by the general Regulation which the supervisory authority makes in the exercise of the investigative, corrective and advisory powers laid down in this Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80829	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80830	Dear State Secretary, as I'm sure you know, there are legal persons with public authority who do not have or do not make revenue from the state budget for the start. One of these is, for example, d.o.o., Croatian air navigation control. This body, which collects personal data, will, for example, be exempt from paying administrative penalties even though it operates in the market with its work and generates revenue from which it finances its action. So this claim doesn't stand. Next, again, for example. in that d.o.o. We see how the unequal position is being brought, what my colleague Ninčević-Lesandric talked about, is being brought into a different position by private entrepreneurs compared to those owned by the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is not true that units of local self-government are financed from the state budget, they are financed from their own budgets and also have a whole set of legal entities with public powers to which these administrative penalties will not apply. So it is true that this regulation has left the state alone the possibility of making a decision in which to punish, however I am telling you, talked about it during the debate and we will repeat it now. Without effective punishment, it is difficult to force anyone to implement a certain regulation especially when this regulation is as complicated and demanding as this one. We are, of course, asking for a vote on this amendment and we reiterate that even our previous amendments have not been adopted, that the SDP Representatives' Club will not be able to support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80831	Now one more question, all the other amendments to yours are withdrawn? Thank you. Let's vote now on this amendment that the government has not accepted. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment 23, this is the last one we will vote on by representatives Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80832	The Government does not accept that amendment with the same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80833	Thank you. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80834	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, this amendment is closely related to the previous one, and I will again point out that you as a Government have had the opportunity to punish both entrepreneurs and bodies of public authority, you have decided not to equate it, to punish entrepreneurs and to send a message to citizens that there are still people in this country who can do what they want and will not be punished for it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80835	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final proposal for a law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 28 abstentions and 6 votes against, have passed the Law on the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80836	We move to the next point, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216 The proposed SDP representative club is based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Aleksic, the government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. To discuss the war, we must go back more than ten years to the past. We must return to the period from 2005 to 2008 when it was one of the variants of the Executive Law that allowed the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the entire payment of debtors. At that time, it was sufficient for a debtor to go to a public notary, for example, to verify his signature as a guarantee for the conclusion of a contract and the like. On the basis of such a legal act, one of the most ordinary statements the believer was able to confiscate the entire salary of the perpetrators, even though he had prescribed the Labour Act differently. However, it was the Executive Act that regulated the implementation of the implementing act from 2005 to 2008 that anyone who wanted to conclude a loan contract in order to buy a vehicle, in order to buy an apartment or something third if they wanted to get that loan had to make one such statement. In 2008, the legislator realised the error of such regulation of legal relations and realized that it was unacceptable to allow the full pay to be done and thus to leave the debtors without receiving them. At that time, however, the legislator did not regulate the legal regulation of confiscation statements made in the period from 2005 to 2008, although it prevented pro futuro from issuing such statements and thus made it impossible for the legal relations arising after 2008 to carry out such procedures, for all those contracts that followed these confiscation statements, the situation did not change. What is particularly important here may seem to be a period long ago in 2005 to 2008. So what kind of legal affairs were concluded between 2005 and 2008 that we might be interested in today in 2018? I'll tell you, every loan contract, for example, for the purchase of an apartment. Because I know very few people in this country who can afford to contract a loan to buy an apartment that it lasts less than ten years. Well, we're all aware of both our own families and people's contacts, and in the end of the media that credit agreements, that housing loans are concluded for a much longer time period of 20 or 30 years. For example, contracts concluded at the age of 30 in 2006 end in 2036, so 18 more years the creditors in these legal transactions who have statements of seized wages will be able to collect the full salary of the perpetrators no matter how many times we have changed between 2008 and today the Implementing Law. We were fully aware of such a situation and in our term of office and in 2013 a regulation was adopted which prevented the seizure or execution of the entire salary on the basis of these statements of the seized salary. The business banks did not like it, of course, and one of them initiated proceedings before the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court then abolished that rule in 2017, so only last year. The reason for the abolition was purely formal and it was pointed to a mistake that was indeed made that such a provision could not be solved by a regulation as a sublegal act because it is primarily about retroactiveness and there is no doubt about it. This is a proposal that has in place retroactiveness, and it is also a matter of amending the provisions of the law, regardless of what the law has ceased to be in force, cannot be amended by the law. We are aware of these mistakes, and that is why, given that this is the situation that has arisen and that this is a situation that will last for many years, that only in the late 2030s will we stop having cases where people have made statements about the seized salary, and that these statements can be used we have referred to the procedure of this bill. I have to remind you before anyone says anything, but the Constitutional Court has already decided on this. In the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the correction of the severance of wages, there is not a single word that would refer to the material causes of non-constitution. In any case, in each of his words, the Constitutional Court was careful not to enter into material reasons. Only the formal reasons were what the Constitutional Court led to when the rules were repealed. So the Constitutional Court had intended to point out that this is what materially unconstitutional would have done. The Constitutional Court gave us representatives as legislators a very clear message that we could arrange this, but not in the way it was done in 2013 but only by law. To clarify the content of the law itself, now that we've been through the procedure that led to its proposal, it's very simple. One article which states on the confiscation of wages, regardless of when they are given, and here we are primarily talking about those in the period 2005 to 2008 because other confiscation of salaries is subject to the rules on the restriction of performance set out in Article 173 shall apply. The law of law. This Regulation shall enter The law was passed last summer at the 7th month, unless I was wrong and passed unanimously. The only thing I regret is that at that time we were a little quick to pass this Law because if we had made it a little later, we could have covered this Constitutional Court Decision, for example by amendment or by other means. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court's decision came after the adoption of these amendments to the Implementing Law. I'll finish this presentation with one message. I don't want to politicize on this subject. This is not a topic for politicizing. We have a situation where thousands of citizens of the Republic of Croatia are and we have a chance to solve it. If we don't solve this, these confiscation statements will haunt our citizens for another 20 years. I think we all have a moral, moral obligation to prevent that from happening. Thank you and I hope we can reach a consensus on this as we did last summer and hope to pass this law. This is an emergency measure, this is necessarily a necessary excuse that we are in the process of passing a new Executive Act in this case cannot be applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80838	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80839	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, you can see by ruling every time a retroactive, kind of a proposal for retroactive measures happens, they call on the Constitution and say the Constitution does not allow retroactive action of the law, which is simply not true. The Constitution allows retroactive action of certain parts of the law, if justified. In this case, it's more than justifiable. And the other thing is, the big question is whether this law is retroactive at all. In fact, if this were to apply from the date of entry into force of the law, then the measure is actually not retroactive, but it is quasi-retroactive because the Constitutional Court has already said in assessing the conversion that it is a quasi-retroactivity because it is about applying existing contractual relations that are still ongoing. If this were to apply to contractual relations that ended, then it would be retroactive. This is how the quasi is retroactive and in the opinion of the EU court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80840	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80841	Thank you, dear colleague Alexic. You're right, and I'm glad you just pointed out the Law of Conversion as an example. The government of the Republic of Croatia has in its statement pointed to the problem of intervention in existing contractual relations and has raised the question of whether such a thing is allowed. However, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia made it very clear in its reasoning that this was allowed, of course, in exceptional cases. It's not something we can use every day. And I believe that you will agree with me, and I believe that other colleagues will agree with me, that this is an exceptional case, that this is about protecting the legitimate interests of Croatian citizens who were in such a situation between 2005 and 2008, and I am also convinced that you will agree with me that these creditors are not being damaged because this in no way affects the amount of debt they are looking for. This only affects the payment dynamics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80842	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80843	Dear colleague Grbin, I would agree with you that this subject must be shown consensus, try to solve problems even though you were attacked by the Association yesterday, I think it's brave that you've made some kind of suggestion because we have a situation in society that everyone in general is talking about the blocked, the president's story, the individual judges talk about them, no one is offering any solution. They're talking, we're waiting for that law, so I think it's commendable that you gave your proposal, and then we can say here during the debate whether it's good, whether it's good, if it can be improved, what other changes should be made, and I would just remind the Croatian public that we are the Executive Act, as you said, unanimously voted here, and that MOST has also given amendments that unfortunately, by ruling to the Executive Law. So I think it's positive to offer proposals even though there will always be criticism, but I think we'll come up with a solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80844	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I will first and foremost say that I am both a representative and a politician, but also as a lawyer who had to apply this law in practice, I have always been a supporter of complete solutions and as few changes as possible because frequent changes create legal uncertainty and I can sometimes understand the ruling because, as a rule, such changes suggest opposition, when they say that we should not go with frequent changes and wait a few months to give a comprehensive solution. However, this is about an acute problem. This is about the problem that arises after the Constitutional Court's decision, however justified it is. But the fact is that the legal situation in 2013-2017 did not exist, that there was this Constitutional Court decision and that it was up to us as legislator, I said before morally, and I stand by, that the problem should be solved as soon as possible. From your presentation, I see that the first foundations for consensus are reached, I hope that the other colleagues will continue in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80846	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, the SDP proposal, which is still or currently the largest opposition party, makes sense. So it makes sense because it's one provision to collect the entire salary in cases like this. However, questions ask your request would be much more credible and stronger, stronger that you did it in 2011, 2012, when you came, you were in power, you could, you could see the laws changing here, so you have political power, etc. And I was embarrassed to hear yesterday about how she put you together, so let's say the Association of Blocks, she just told you you could have handled a lot, and now something else. So I imitate this proposal of yours because it makes sense, but everything else you've done has simply created an atmosphere to exhaust people and produce debt slavery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80848	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If you had gone to primary school with me, my class would have told you that you were sitting on your ears because I was very picturesque and precise in describing that this measure was already adopted during the SDP government in 2013 and that it was applied from 2013 to 2017. What's our fault and I'm going to accept it today and confirm that we made a mistake is that we didn't do it the right way. Instead of the law, we solved this with a rule brought by the Minister of Finance. We held that the problem was solved, we were wrong about that being pointed out by the Constitutional Court. As soon as the Constitutional Court's decision was made after we had considered the situation and found a solution, we proposed a law. Unfortunately, we couldn't go any faster, and the moment this law came into debate is the moment of entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure which allowed us, as an opposition, to "put" certain points of the agenda into debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80850	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80851	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. So I am interested in why the SDP did not generally improve the position of the completed and blocked while it was in power, but it practically declared the law of Minister Bosnjakovic, hence HDZ's minister in early 2012, and therefore by the minister of justice who therefore had an interest in the exercise that was in the classic conflict of interest because he earned on these activities. It is known that Mr Milenić had the right to perform one-fifth of HPB clients and one-six clients of VIPnet. Is that why you basically implemented HDZ law and how every time you come to the opposition, just remember that some things aren't right? Now you have an initiative, but you know very well that it won't go away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80852	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to tell you something I've never boasted about before, and when I hear your exposure, I see that I should have. In 2011 there at the end of the 11th month after I was elected representative to the Croatian Parliament, and before the Croatian Parliament was established, I jumped on the head, literally jumped on all my colleagues from the party and finally a respected colleague, Zoran Milanovic, to persuade him to postpone the application of the Executive Law and to delete the measures of the introduction of public perpetrators. And I did it. The first measure, the first decision of the SDP government, is the abolition of public perpetrators, precisely in this law that you are now calling me to implement. I asked you at the opening exhibition to avoid politicizing in the debate on this agenda point and try to solve the problem. Sadly, these words did not fall on fertile soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80854	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80855	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, you have well noticed that the Executive Law is the cancer of the early Croatian society and every proposal and this proposal gives you a positive direction to address this problem. Of course, it would have been much better if the government had made a whole proposal and we could adopt it and solve this burning problem that everyone is talking about. Of course, the Bridge has made its proposal and amendments, not so long ago. I hope that any proposal, anyone to give it to, and that it goes in favour of our citizens that we need all the MPs unanimously regardless of what the proposal is now by the SDP, HDZ or anyone that we have to support it or try to fix it. These aren't politicizing anymore. And I agree with all the MPs and our citizens that this is a question of survival, mostly young people in this area, and this is the way we need to talk about this law. The shifts exist, and the one who has the additions to the sea gives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80856	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80857	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull. The SDP yesterday presented a whole series of our proposals that should address the issues of those who are unfortunately blocked and those who, if we don't adopt it tomorrow, might become one. These measures are our contribution to the ongoing debate and debate that I hope will lead to a comprehensive solution to a serious and major problem. I hope that they will also contribute to this debate by ruling, that the Bridge will give it, that the Living Wall will also give it, that it will come with concrete solutions for concrete proposals because I think it is very much enough for Croatia to just point a finger at something and say it is wrong. You had suggestions last summer, like you had amendments and we had a few, I personally pointed to certain things that I considered illogical, but look, we came to what we could by consensus adopt. That's a good first step, but that's all that's left, first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80858	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80859	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Implementing Act with the Final Proposal of the Law of the SDP Club of Representatives was as follows, therefore, in the period from 28 July 2005 to 16 June 2008, an executive law was in force which prescribed that the debtor could give consent to the full or partial payment of the SDP, which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia stated in its decision of 11 July 2017 took the view that this would continue to apply. Therefore, in accordance with the principle of rule of law, a position under which the legislator could amend and amend the obligations previously agreed by the parties to the law on a mutual basis, and the fact that such intervention of religious and debt relations could not be justified by public interest, cannot be taken into account. As a result of the proposed proposal, it is not possible to accept the draft law supplementing the Executive Act with the final bill submitted to the Croatian Assembly by the SDP Representatives' Club. As for the new, whole executive law, the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as announced by the end of June, until the end of this session... The Croatian Parliament will have in the procedure a new Executive Act which will be a complete solution compared to the changes we had in 2017. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new Implementing Law will, as a whole, try to correct irregularities in the current system, primarily when it comes to the costs of the procedure as one of the most difficult issues of the Implementing Law, with certain amendments to all the chapters of the law and those general principles of the Implementing Law. As regards assistance to blocked and executed citizens, this is a special measure in the Law on the Personal Bank of Consumers and Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance will present those laws by the end of the week, the Law on the Personal Bank of Consumers, where, after the shortened bankruptcy procedure, will try to regulate the issue, unblock somewhere around 100,000 people of the Republic of Croatia in the first step, and the two laws prepared by the Ministry of Finance are going to step up the write-off of debts, which will be presented by the end of this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80860	Thank you. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80861	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you repeat that there will be a full law, as you repeated last year at the 7th month. Not a whole law. However, you must admit, if the government does not accept, this shift is also a shift, regardless of what comes from the SDP or anyone. This is a shift that the government should now accept because on a daily basis people are in a difficult situation, getting harder and harder. With this amendment and if you could complete it, I don't see any reason why any representative or club advocate would object to this law which is a step forward, this proposal would be a big step, which does not mean that the whole law doesn't have to solve that problem, but right now the situation is difficult. For this reason, once again, I call on fellow parliamentary deputies to make sure that everyone on this kind of proposal who is hasty, who is important to our citizens is unique and that we try to contribute more to the amendments, the way in which this issue is discussed with the Government, so that this problem can be resolved as far as possible to the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80862	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80863	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Bulj, I will answer your line, and I will not answer the others so that the debate does not go the wrong way. I agree with my colleague, Grbin, who said that this issue is not a matter of policyising the problem, but of solving the problem. Last year I worked with your former club president, Mr. Miroslav Simic, on your proposal for an executive law where we... It's a very good deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the deal, you've given up some deals because of your political assessment, which is your right, and that's your right. We estimate that last year is the kind of law that went out of hand, as far as protecting the only real estate and other changes we've ever had. I note and stress, the new Implementing Law, a whole, fully decorated, European, with new far more fair solutions modelled by our neighbouring countries, the implementation will be presented in practice to the Croatian public by summer 2018. As for direct assistance blocked, by the end of the week you will hear the government's proposals and I don't think there's any point in discussing something, politicizing and raising tension, which would not be the point of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80864	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80865	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, dear colleague Salapic, you have no argument as to why this law cannot be passed. There's no argument. The Constitutional Court didn't go into scale. For technical reasons, he abolished part of the regulation because the minister has no right to determine how the law will operate. So, technically, it was. Meritum did not enter the metrics, and I will further point out that the Constitutional Court made one decision in late 2009 that brought down the decision of the county court, which has rightly established that the full receipt can be carried out. The Constitutional Court, by its decision, knocked down the county court's decision and said that on the basis of an article. 56. The constitution has the right to earn a decent man and therefore must not be paid for. So, the Constitutional Court has already decided not to pay the full salary. It's just for us to bring it in. You won't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80866	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Salapic, I know that you are now a State Secretary and that as Secretary of State you have certain tasks to respect. But you can't get out of the second role you have, and that's the role of politicians, and at the same time the role of the Master of Legal Science. And you know, in the final line and voting, when we voted on the conversion of Swiss francs, I think you participated, that there are situations where the Croatian Parliament can influence existing contractual relations. These existing contractual relations may be touched where there is a reasonable reason. And now I'm asking you, step forward for a moment from the role of secretary of state and move into the role of politicians, into the role of an excellent legal or role of a man and tell me, just for a moment, do you think it's constitutional that someone can live without their pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80868	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Salapic. You see, I agree with you that you have no argument to reject this bill. I am pleased that when the SDP came to the opposition now sees through, but you in HDZ and satellite ruling parties, you have not yet seen and should bring you into the opposition as soon as possible and take advantage of this moment to promote your solution for a month or two, etc. So don't be afraid of the proposal that comes from the opposition. So accept this. Well, we've already got to start working in the interest of the citizens, so it doesn't matter which party we're from. I don't know which time you're simply rejecting this proposal. He's got his head and tail, and I'm glad that this is how one penitentiary way and understanding has a once ruling party, but we have to work for blocked people to finally free people, it's a deep anti-civilization move that he voted in 2005, in 2008 to adopt, it's against man.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80870	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80871	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Since Mr. Salapic decided not to respond to the replicas, the whole situation would somehow appear as follows. You have a house that's in very bad shape and leaks the roof and now it's action let's try to take that roof down a little bit and protect the house, and the esteemed secretary answers we're not going to do it now but we're going to wait for one whole solution and go into full reconstruction. We are all aware that a complete solution is needed, but this proposal proposed by the SDP club is appreciated as a proposal that could help the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80872	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80873	I'd just like to comment on my colleague Salapic, the secretary of state who attacked a fellow Bull here to politicize us. If you have listened well to our discussions or replicas, we have commended any solution, we have just said that we should not be politicized but that we should offer a solution that we have done. Many talk about the completed and blocked and the Bridge has not played the agreement of counterpart Salapic. We agreed with you on the Executive Act and there was a consensus reached, on the one who was voted and who received support in the Croatian Parliament. But we wanted even more radical changes and we gave amendments and you refused the amendments and that's your right. And that's why I didn't call anyone here. I just wanted to say that we are the only political option that has offered a concrete solution in the form of laws and amendments and we welcome all of our colleagues who are also offering solutions and we will support everything that goes in favour of our citizens and there is no need to attack us or to politicise us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80874	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry the government doesn't accept this brief bill. Today, the Committee on Legislatives has also held an opinion that, because of the retroactiveness of this legislative proposal and of this provision proposed by the Government, the draft law cannot be adopted. but we are well aware that we have a constitutional basis and that the Croatian Parliament can pass a law with certain provisions that have a feedback, when there is a particularly legitimate interest. And I think that in this law and in the light of all the colleagues who have spoken, it is clear that there is a particularly legitimate interest. And I have no doubt if the Croatian Parliament would pass these amendments to the law so that we would have a clean heart, with full confidence that we had acted for a particularly justified reason and left it to the Constitutional Court if anyone would initiate the procedure of assessing the constitutionality of the law to decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80876	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to open a debate. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA MP Branimir Bunjac will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80877	Thank you very much. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, Secretary of State. The executive law has been the cancer of early Croatian societies since 2010 when it is current not to say forever Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic developed a scandalous version of it, which practically turned a million Croatian citizens into slaves of the modern era, in a way even worse slaves than in the old or Middle Ages. Because in the old and Middle Ages, the master of goods was sometimes released, and it even happened relatively often, but there is no life and death from the execution and the blockade of liberation. Debt slavery is indeed a very old phenomenon, but until the time of the Roman Empire, the rulers eventually wrote off the debts of their subjects to reset the economy and society in their own country. Since then, the rule has arisen that debts must not be forgiven and the consequences of that decision are indeed seen today and is not unrealistic to say that the situation is worse than ever before. Because they're not just citizens, they owe the whole state the amount they won't pay by the day of judgment. However, as long as the state can renegotiate regardless of the debt situation and will never have blocked accounts, an individual will lose his right to a normal life but because of a minimum debt such as an unpaid bill for HRT tax, supplementary insurance, dog vaccination or waste disposal bill. In most cases, citizens fall into blockades not because of the debt of the principal, but because of interest and the cost of the procedure, because according to the Rigid Law of Minister Bosnjakovic, the principal should pay extra for each kuna between 4 and 6 kuna, and it is rare that the ratio of 1:20 and more. A number of unnecessary factors have been included in the debt collection process through the HDZ decision and with great support from the SDP, which have all combined acquired a shortened co-loquial name of the executive mafia. It's about lawyers, public notebooks, FINAs, and claim-raising agencies who probably all give their interest fees to beasts in politics, starting from local to national. In fact, politicians as the bearers of corruption in the Republic of Croatia are in line with the above mentioned links in the chain, which offer to impose debts on state firms and public institutions such as HRT, Croatian waters, gas, heat, electricity, waste and various others. For their material breakthroughs, for food, drink, staying in expensive hotels, driving in limos and financing other physical pleasures, politicians have agreed to exclude more than Croatian citizens from normal life and throw them on a beggar stick. And how many citizens got sick, how many had serious psychological consequences, how many couldn't sleep, how many escaped from the country or even killed themselves just so a small criminal click could enjoy it. And we saw from that analysis that was published yesterday that the debt of the blocked continues to increase exponentially and that, in fact, this debt is the main indicator of the government's deep and grave failure, torn apart by coalition and intra-party conflicts, a government that does not implement reforms, but deepens the social crisis. What kind of growth can we even talk about when citizens are hungry, when they can't pay for the directing and when they're digging in the trash? By observing the debt tragedy of the Croatian people, a logical question arises which is the sense of government behaviour at all? According to some basic principle, the first task of politicians should be to protect people's lives. Another task would be to protect those who suffer, who are hard, who are disproved and helpless, who suffer, who beg for help. And what do we have here in Parliament? We have extreme insolence. 77 people of robots who cruelly and extremely selfishly, cruelly and above all selfishly destroy just the ones they should care about. And it is a surreal Croatian reality that only 77 MPs decide the fate of a million people in a way that they don't care. And exactly the executive law is laxative. It's the dung eggs of the Strybor Forest, which everyone shows their true nature, not to speak the serpent's tongue. Because it's in vain to talk about demographic recovery, about justice, about fighting poverty and homelessness, about investing in young people, about growing, about the social state if we let people choke for life in debt that they didn't actually create and even that these debts are passed on to their descendants. And we can't say that someone else is responsible for the debt disaster. We can transfer a small part of the responsibility to banks, to the EU, to corporations, but no one is more guilty than the legislative authority that has allowed such a situation. No one is more guilty than the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, you have heard well, for the greatest horrors of the 21st century, of the horror called the Executive Law of the Republic of Croatia, this House, in which all its misery was revealed. Because today, in fact, we only have one small article to discuss. You will not believe, one single article, Article 173 of the 371 articles of a completely unnecessary globular law. The small article would like to regulate the issue of the full salary of one employee, but unfortunately no article will be accepted. And we have to ask ourselves one simple question, and how can a man live without a single swear in the modern world? Live on what? From the air? Well, not everyone's lucky they don't have any property so they're still as rich as Governor Vujčić or, say, they can buy new audiences even though their war credit is bigger than their salary, like some HDZ ministers. Someone here mentioned it, I'll do it again, Art. 56. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia that says that every employee has a right to earn money that can provide their own and their families with a free and decent life. If this is the case with the law. 56. The Constitution? Who even allowed the lenders to be above the Republic of Croatia? How the executive law applies to art. 62. A constitution that says the family is under special protection from the state? How does a state protect a family if it takes away employees, parents of every kuna they earn? What are we talking about here? So this is the situation that HDZ's majority therefore does not want to make the slightest concession. They'll still say what I can do, it can't, it's a technical thing, it's a procedure, and it's interesting that they're the same, at least some of those MPs a week ago two, I don't know when it was saying that you should vote on conscience. 19 representatives of the ruling majority said they should vote... So where's that conscience gone now? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is there at least 2 of these 77 people not needed 19, at least 2 who will vote according to conscience this time and allow this petty law to pass, a small change? I can tell you the answer in advance, it probably doesn't exist. And you know why? Because it's about poor citizens, and it's saying, "You're poor and you're difficult for God" that we can, you know, suffer further, suffer it's your destiny, maybe you're in a better situation in another world. And yes, I'll say this, maybe one of those MPs is even burning a conscience, but it's still a party strength. Everyone will eventually find some excuse for their conscience as a representative who says, and they themselves are guilty, over-phoning. Finally, what we can say about the minister's behaviour, while millions of executions are being registered, and billions are sitting on the accounts of a few privileged, he suggests that 100,000 citizens go to forced bankruptcy by the pen move. So 10% of Croatian citizens will in one single day, I don't know here mention the secretary of state on Friday, go bankrupt, making Croatia a world precedent. So there's no such thing in the world that in one single day 10% of the population went bankrupt, I mean 10% when family members were added. So the secretary of state, along with his minister, will enter history as the rarity of an epoch, so that they may be called the executive bankruptcy chamber, will be in the encyclopedia or in the lexicon of foreign words will be introduced a new term. Sometimes it happens, and here we are going to compete that way anyway. Says the secretary of state and his minister, we're going to introduce an open-close bankruptcy, as I don't know, we're going to open the door now and we're going to slam them up and say, "Here, you're all free." And he doesn't say the next thing, that the executive procedure of each debtor is going to cost three thousand kunas, and he doesn't know where he's going to take them, he doesn't say that things are going to sell out to the debtor. What things, at what cost, to whom will they be sold, where will they be sold? And he doesn't say the third thing that's very interesting, which is that in case the debtor earns some money, so just to earn it in 20 years, all the old debts will be re-activated, which means that this forced bankruptcy does not represent a solution but represents only a fog in which a man can exist if he agrees to be poor forever. Finally, the question of the office is that 100,000 people are going to go bankrupt, and what about the remaining 230,000, what are they going to do, how are they going to be helped? What does it mean to reduce the cost of the execution by 300 kuna, if someone is in debt of £200,000 and if each month his debts increase by more than they pay him? I think the best concrete proposal in essence that should come to the Parliament would be to take the full salary of the minister and his associates as well as the representatives of the ruling majority until the moment when the problem of blocked citizens is resolved. And then be absolutely certain this Friday, the day after tomorrow they would vote on this bill, just like in the case of Lex Agrokora when they were 48 hours, if they had to at night at 4 a.m. write a law to satisfy their interests. And finally, I want to point out once again, we mustn't fool ourselves, this isn't a matter of justice, this isn't a question of economics, this isn't a matter of finance, this is a matter of political will. The living wall will support the amendment of the law and any next one that will come, and we are also preparing our brand-new Executive Law that we hope to really implement in the work of the team before it will indeed solve the problem of the completed and blocked. In the meantime, we're preparing a law on the transfer of demand that will suppress the rampage of law enforcement agencies. I hope you'll support him when he comes to the hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80878	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80879	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms who detailed their club's proposal for a representative who actually proposes to supplement the executive law in an emergency procedure. A lot of things have already been said, so I'm just going to say a little bit about all this in front of the HDZ Club. This supplement, which is proposed, relates to the fact that the performance cannot be implemented on the overall income of the perpetrators, regardless of the previous days of the declaration of consent of the seized. As the colleague explained the need for the adoption of this proposal, namely the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2017, which abolished Article 26(3) of the Rules on the manner and procedure of the implementation of the implementation of the budget implementation procedure, so that since 2017, the implementing decision has been implemented on the whole income of the perpetrators on the basis of the preceding date of the instrument of consent of the seized salary, regardless of the current Executive Act, and only in those cases where those documents have been certified before the entry into force of the 2008 Act of Conduct, which was somewhere in effect in June 2008. In line with the view of the Government, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law is not a procedural provision as it is stated and explained that, on the basis of the procedural provision, there is no retroactive action, and therefore no obstacle to the adoption of such a proposed amendment. The proposed law would partially abolish the right of creditors to collect money demand and, as agreed by their counterpart, the debt dynamics would be affected by the proposed law. When we talk about all of this, and given the real and all that is said, we cannot allow citizens to lose their full income for the reason that they and the members of their families are left without the means to live, having all these truly justified reasons in mind, we must also not forget the essence of the mandatory and legal relationship, and that is also so that one of the principles of mandatory and legal relationship is dissuasion, which means that participants in a mandatory and legal relationship are fully free to determine mandatory relations with the limitations and tolerance of their content. Therefore, the fact that the 2005 Executive Act was allowed to make such a provision for the collection of the demand for full income and the fact that such a mandatory and legal relationship under such conditions was entered into by debtors on their own free will. The 2008 Act, which introduces a restriction on the exemption of two thirds of salaries from enforcement, also introduces a provision that does not apply to those documents which have been publicly certified prior to the entry into force of the law itself, means those documents on the seizure of the total amount of salary. It is therefore also the view of the Constitutional Court that, because of respect for the principle of rule of law, it would not be good to adopt provisions which would be contrary to what occurred at the time of the application of a certain law, which is this law of 2005 because such feedback could be permitted in accordance with the Constitution only if justified public interest is proved. In accordance with all that I have said, and also with the view of the Government, which in this way we have reason to believe that this proposal cannot be accepted as a club and I only appeal to the Ministry, and what the State Secretary himself has announced that, in the whole new draft implementing law that is currently under way, it is possible to reconsider whether and in any way possible to improve the status of these people for which the implementation of the full amount of salary can still be applied under the current rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80880	They tell me there's no replica of the new Rules of Procedure. And now he will take Mr. Peja Grbin's word on behalf of the promoter for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80881	Five minutes, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When I received the government's opinion on this law, I was uneasy and I hoped that at the moment when the debate of the HDZ Representatives Club was held, however, it would depart from the position of its Government. If for nothing else, then for something I will now read to you, and this is the following, I quote: “Article 26(3) provides a provision. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. I read further "The right to work and to earn money is one of the fundamental human rights protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and is a prerequisite for the exercise of other rights. In the case of a whole salary seized, the worker is brought into a slave position, thereby giving undue protection to the settlement of demand, and restricts the right to a decent life of workers and his family," the worker is brought into a slave position. This is not written by colleagues from the Living Wall, this is not written by us from the SDP, this is part of the government's observation of the Republic of Croatia, which was delivered twice to the Constitutional Court in the process of discussing this rule before the Constitutional Court. Do you know who's in the signature of this? Minister Zdravko Maric. The government of the Croatian HDZ government was at the moment when proceedings were conducted before the Constitutional Court claimed that this is a solution that we have proposed well here and that, once again, I will prevent workers from being brought into a slave position. After the Constitutional Court has officially abolished this Regulation, when the SDP proposed law, we now have a diametrically opposite position. Therefore, I ask you, therefore, to have one position of the Government expressed in this statement, but you also have two positions that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Constitutional Court on 30 May 2016, the Minister was a colleague of Maric and a second, on 10 May 2017. Within a year, the same government has repeatedly claimed that this is a solution to be kept in the Regulation. I ask you, help us now to put that solution into law and return to what you said in 2016 and 2017. Ignore that the SDP is the promoter of this Law, if it bothers you so much, let's go solve the citizens' problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80882	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. The first replica is Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80883	Dear Mr. Grbin, when the SDP came to power in 2011, then an article with the SDP T-portal, entitled "SDP is the main cause of the problem of blocked citizens," there were only 25 thousand blocked citizens. A few years later, with your authority, that number of blocked citizens went up to the number of 300,000 and didn't fall below that figure. It's really dramatic data that points to how much SDP has devoted its time to the issue of blocked citizens and I'll tell you one thought, that you haven't solved that problem, you've got a lot on your mind. You've lost simple voters with that, let's say the political spectrum, some of them have moved in with us. I'm sorry that these solutions you have today, they're good and I will especially support them, I'm sorry that you didn't propose them when you were in power and when you had most of them to spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80884	Thank you. Mr. Grbin, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80885	I'm sorry some MPs weren't here during the entire debate, so not some old man needs to be repeated over and over again, but I'm a patient man, so I'll repeat them. Like I told the predecessors from your club who were replicating us. In 2013, the SDP government adopted a regulation that resolved this issue. In 2013, the SDP government, if you haven't remembered, I hope you will now. In 2017, the Constitutional Court abolished this and immediately after the suspension, we proposed a way to resolve it. So, in 2013, we solved, it was worth 4 years, the Constitutional Court has abolished, now we continue where we left off. And as for the SDP government, you weren't there again when I explained to your colleague, Bunjac. The first session of the Parliament, the second day of the session, the abolition of public perpetrators. That's the law that SDP abolished. But today we're not here to politicize and boast, but to try to solve the problem, that you're obviously not able.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80886	Thank you, Mr. Grbin. Time's up. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80887	Thank you very much. My colleague Grbin, I really believe that the HDZ parliamentary representatives, regardless of what the SDP proposes, will support this proposal for the reason that this proposal is a step forward in relation to the current Executive Act, which is the cancer-earning Croatian society. This is not a question of voters or voters, this is a question of citizens. Our neighbors, our loved ones and those we know and don't know. They're so hungry, they don't have receipts. And I don't see the point of my fellow MPs not voting on their conscience this time. Me and my colleague Grbin, our HDZ colleagues, disagree on a number of things, but this is a good proposal and a step forward. That he can do better, that he can do better – he can. We at MOST have made a proposal, something has been accepted. But this is an even better step. I don't see any reason nor can you have an excuse, a colleague from HDZ,... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80888	Thank you. Mr. Peja Grbin, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80889	Dear counterpart Bulj, when we come to vote on Friday, and we, as representatives of the opposition, take all the proposals the government has made in the procedure, study them and then decide whether to support or not. If we were guided by government logic and the ruling majority, this side of the assembly would be red every Friday, but it's not. And you know why? Because we study what is before us and on the basis of the content of the proposal, we make a decision whether we support it or not. The logic of the ruling is unfortunately different. I again appeal that on this proposal, devoid of any ideology, the proposal which was acceptable in 2017 and 2016, for example, Minister Maric. We don't conduct that division and political struggle. Not on this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80890	Thank you very much. Mrs. Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80891	Thank you very much. Well, the fact is, without pay, you really can't live. The fact is, the Constitutional Court has put this decision out of effect. However, I'm personally interested in whether or not you came up with the data, I personally failed, how many cases there were. Because if he's in a situation like this, that's a lot. I know because personal situations are first of all, and every citizen should be important to us. I know two of my own, I have a neighbor who signed those decisions in 2007. At times, they were in a situation where they did not regularly settle their obligations, one of them got lucky, the other one is in a blockade. But he's still getting one-third of his salary, not getting it all. So if you have more knowledge of this, maybe you can tell us a little bit more because I haven't been able to get that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80892	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80893	As for the total number of statements made, I have no record of it because as far as I know at that time, there was no record of such statements, so we don't have official data. Most of the business banks in the Republic of Croatia are currently taking the view that they will not act under this Constitutional Court decision and fortunately most of the business banks, if I am not wrong especially those associated with the Croatian Banks' Association, are not acting accordingly for the time being. But that under 1 is not a guarantee that tomorrow will not act, especially if we send them a message that we refuse to adopt this law, and part of the banks that are not associated, part of the smaller banks has already appeared several times in this way and there have been several newspaper articles, some citizens have also spoken to me personally at a time when we have proposed this law and told me their story where they have gone to their full pay, and counterpart Alexic also quoted such an attempt that ended in the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80894	Thank you. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, well better yet it doesn't matter. Dear Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80895	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, you see, the thing that bothers me the most is that the ruling part is trying to get away with the half-truths, and then they say that because it's intruding into mandatory relations, and the intruding of mandatory relations is allowed, it's not prohibited, if it's not preventing the payment of debt. It's not forbidden, it's happened before, it's going to happen in the future. So then it's said the Constitutional Court said it can't be retroactive. The Constitutional Court didn't say it at all, it's a lie, it's a heavy, hard lie. The court has abolished some of the rules for technical reasons because the minister has no right to act on the law, very simply. And I repeat, at the end of 2009, the Constitutional Court made a decision saying, according to one final judgment of the county court, that the debtor who had to pay the full salary did not have to pay it because it is the opposite of the Constitution in the section that says that everyone has the right to pay a decent man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80896	Thank you, too. Mr. Gribn's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80897	Dear fellow Alexic. Yes, you're right and that's what surprises me because not only did the Constitutional Court say that, but in 2016 and 2017 the Government of the Republic of Croatia said that. So the government of the Republic of Croatia in the constitutional court proceedings represents one point of view, and today, when we have a proposal from the SDP, it is probably the only reason why it represents the second point of view. But unfortunately, however, this is not an isolated case, see the explanation that we received, for example, on the proposal to amend the Law on Mandatory Relations, which should allow for a more even repayment of the debt. There they explained that the proposal was unacceptable to them because it would reduce the amount of interest that believers would collect. So it's obvious that no matter what this is, at least I thought it wasn't an ideological question, that we have a diametrically opposite view of who needs to be protected in a religious-debt relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80898	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Hrvoje Runtic in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80899	Honorable Vice President, MPs, MPs and state secretary. First of all, I want to say that the bridge club of independent lists will support this document. It's clearly one question, and I'd even say it doesn't matter if there's one case or no case, or if there's only a potential possibility that people get paid for the whole thing. It's really something that has to do with some constitutional provisions and maybe as well as a potential possibility it's some kind of burning problem because, as counterpart Grbin said, tomorrow the banks can decide to move into it. And it seems to me that in functional states when there's a potential for such a problem to exist, it reacts immediately. And that's why I think this is a good step. As for what Mr. Salapic said, it means, of course, that the whole public is waiting for those solutions and we're looking at these balloons that are being released right now, and I'm pretty closely following it, and I can tell you that about what we've seen so far looks like a cabbage salad. One is said to be introduced by public perpetrators and the other day is said not to be introduced, so let's say that the costs of the procedure will be reduced, but we do not see that they will be expelled from the procedure of FINA, public notebooks, lawyers etc. But when you say this shouldn't be accepted, but you should wait for those complete solutions that come in the summer, then I join what your colleague said to block your entire salary by summer, so I want to know what you'd say. As for what my colleague Jelkovac said, it means mandatory relationships or people, what's on the scale of the scales now? I don't know. I'd be kind of human, I think it's our role here to work for people, but good. And I agree with what has been said here on many occasions that we should vote on our conscience Friday. I know there will be stories in the halls and some of them will talk, but recently I heard during the vote a fellow colleague said so why we vote against this is good. But I wanted to draw attention to the fact that even by some miracle that this amendment to the Law and adoption remains a series of problems that we have with that law. So for years he's been constantly producing new blocked people, the debt is growing, everyone's looking at it, and it's just not doing anything. Now, here and there, we hear announcements that they're going to be going to change, so let's say at this point that the current public is one very interesting thing, everyone is writing a new executive law. So I read the paper, literally every other day I see that I'm a cartoon passing by the bar and people sitting outside, I say what you're doing, we're writing a new executive law. Everyone's writing a new executive law. If I didn't know otherwise, or if Prime Minister Plenkovic hadn't said this year was a reform and there was no choice in it, I'd think that in 15 minutes, everyone's writing a new executive law. Is there a club representative who doesn't write a new executive law to raise his hand, I'd like to see. So now I'm going to tell you one piece of information that's not often spoken of, so in this law, almost a thousand interventions have been carried out so far. Imagine having some old rag, some car, and you fix it a thousand times, and he still doesn't drive. I mean, there's this Einstein definition of madness when you do the same thing all the time, and you expect a different result. Nothing's improved. And it's interesting that in all these interventions, no one has thought of fees that can't protect those two-thirds or three-quarters of the average salary, so let's say the craftsmen who are in an even worse position because they guarantee their entire assets or say something recently announced by the DZS, which is that 95,000 of our fellow citizens have less pensions than 250 kunas, and if they're in a blockade, then they're taking out a quarter of those 250 kunas. I don't know what to call it without using hard words. So in a country in which the Constitution in the basic provisions of Article 1 states that the social state of these people has not been remembered. What is particularly unclear is that the entire competent ministry, or all the people in it, are not doing anything all these years, even though this huge number of problems that are blocked are being written and spoken in the media almost every day. It's incomprehensible because I'm kind of looking at this job of MPs, ministers, state secretaries, ministry employees, etc. It should be primarily the creation of a single framework in which every citizen can live this famous life worthy of man, I quote from the Constitution. And yet this problem is there, everyone knows about it, everyone talks about it, but there's nothing more or less to do, except some about a thousand cosmetic changes and other than more frequent announcements than rare that the problem will be solved. What is highlight of these current announcements is that the problem will be solved for honest consumers. And now watch this, this is black humor, the difference between honest and dishonest citizens is set so that those who owe up to 20,000 kunas are fair, and those who owe kuna are more unfair. That's a very interesting logic. This is how I like these logical things. The solution to the problem of 325,000 blocked and the debt for which at this point no one knows what it really is, but it is certain that somewhere over 60 billion kuna is because what FINA publishes is just as far as I understand it is just the principal. So the solutions to this problem have been in the air for years, various experts have been talking about it and it's enough to say just one week or a month to read ideas that communicate in public and could be written a law that would solve debt effectively, quickly and cheaply, but it doesn't seem. Now, which is why in this first-class social problem, the state acts like the one that keeps its head in the sand, that's what we can ask ourselves. Is the state acting that way maybe because it suits some lobbys? If that's the case, and it all points out that then it's some kind of crime, like a joint criminal enterprise. When I say that everything points to that, among other things, I mean the fact that the execution of the execution doesn't require a block of accounts, we both know that, and all of us who do so. The exercise may be carried out on the basis of, for example, a judicial solution in accordance with the receipts of the perpetrators so as to remain sufficient for normal life and without unnecessary costs of the executive procedure. So it's legitimate to ask the question, what in this process does FINA, public notebooks, lawyers and others, so I'll say parasites, tell me or give me a warning? Is their role just to increase the costs of the exercise, or in other words, their profit on something they should not do at all? It's actually fictional, I remember from Sopranos... a job that was invented you don't even show up on it, some computer out there something copy-paste. So if the citizens' accounts are blocked just because FINA on each payment for a certain purpose would take a fee of 180 kuna and not monthly, not annually and not once, as their lawyer, Vinka Ilak, recently falsely claims on national television, but on every transaction. Has anyone made an effort to calculate how much FINA has come through unnecessary high fees for each transaction? So literally, if a person's monthly salary costs, let's say, 2,000 kuna, and it's distributed to two creditors, not every believer gets 1,000 kuna, but minus 180 kuna, and FINA doubles charges him an 80 kuna fee. Now I'm interested in when I don't know if you're paying some bills or some bills in the bank, commissions are 5 kuna, 10 kuna, 15 kuna, what kind of transaction is 180 kuna? The solutions to this problem are simple, all you have to do is have the courage and some will to do them, here I will list a few, for the start of the execution should be returned to the courts, the blocking of the account that is not necessary for carrying out the tasks, should be thrown out of the process by the FINA, the public notebooks and lawyers, I did not see that you planned to reduce the costs. It is also necessary to introduce a deadline within which the implementation is started so that interest is not suddenly accumulated. And we should also introduce an absolute obsolescence so that the debts don't last for life or that our debts are inherited, so people literally spend their whole lives paying only interest, not touching the principal, and then when they die, the heirs receive these debts in the desert debate. That's amazing. And there's, of course, a question of tight interest, it's maybe even the worst evil, it's a tight interest, and it's a question of one other law, and we've put something in the process with colleagues from other clubs. After all, you can simply take over a model that is good and apply it, let's say the Slovenian Executive Act. Solutions mean there are and if we were willing today we wouldn't actually be where we are with these 325 000 blocked, with an abstract story. So this isn't your financial or legal story anymore, it's an abstract social problem. You're going to go into something now, we're following it, and we're going to see what it's going to be, but for now it looks like you have a yard that's grown into weeds and now you come in with a trimmer and it's 70 cm weeds, you cut down 20 cm above and you say we solved the problem. You haven't solved the problem. I'm not going to tell you now how many people got sick, how many suicides were committed, that was already talked about here, even though I saw it on the ground. In the end, I will use one part of the reasoning of this law supplement, or the reasons why the law is passed. It is the said Article 56(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which stipulates that each employee has the right to earn a living free and worthy of his or her family. Indeed, in a country whose Constitution in the first article says that the social state should always keep in mind that a significant part of the population cannot ensure a decent life and a good part of it thanks to this Executive Law. I think that somehow every one of us MPs, ministers, state secretary and other people working in the system feel like politicians or not, in everything we do, we should always keep in mind this article 1 and this article 56. 1. The constitution of this country and we should always have the lives of the citizens of this country in the first place. Everything else is nonsense. And in that sense I cannot not ask the question how is it possible at all that the Constitutional Court opposes Article 56 of the Constitution. One, make a decision to confiscate anyone's entire salary? So it's the Constitutional Court that makes a decision that doesn't comply with something that's written in the Constitution. What is this Constitutional Court that goes against the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80900	Thank you very much. We don't have any replicas, we move on to individual debates. The first debate is from Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We are discussing the SDP's proposal to amend the executive law so that people who made contracts between 2005 and 2008, so that not only one part of the salary can be made. Now what's important to say here? You see, we are constantly discussing the consequences and there is no discussion of the causes that led to this terrible phenomenon that we have 330,000 blocked by around 43 billion kuna of total debt. I remind you, at the end of 2010, there were about 25,000 blocked with about 6.5 billion kuna. So we have a real explosion of debts in Croatia and it is indeed a debt crisis of the private sector of citizens and we have a systemic problem that 1,000, 2.3 citizens are captured, believe that this would not be the case at all. But since it's 330,000 with family members about a million, this is a really big system problem. I will immediately say that I support this SDP proposal, but I said that it is a pity that in their term they did not only solve it through this law but simply solved the problem blocked and thus led to a normal civilizational level of Croatian society that there is no blocking of accounts in this today's way. And I'm sorry that today, with this important proposal, only colleague Bauk here defends the colors of the SDP, means for this important one change. Now what do you say? This is only about one article that needs to be changed in the executive law. It would have been better if it had been settled consistently, it might have been better if we had all gathered together in opposition, so we had, we had other quality suggestions not to hang on just one article then every little someone started such a change. I remind you of distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs that since 1990 until now, the Executive Law has been complemented, amended, something has been picking up on it and the situation has been getting worse all the time. So I am now asking the following question to all who have so far changed the Implementing Law in one way or another, why did you not put the following provisions in these Implementing Law proposals, e.g. that everyone pays their own costs of the executive procedure. On behalf of the party Let's change Croatia last year when HDZ and MOST were in power, I proposed such a solution. Unfortunately imagine what was rejected which particularly surprised me, MOST was then in a situation to score chess mat and they simply pushed one as in their opinion the most important provision that one who was thrown out on the road, in order not to be on the road, needed a country for a year and a half to pay for accommodation and it was as a solution to the problem. I mean, I won't comment any further. Too bad MOST, when he could really push HDZ, could do whatever he wanted in that law, too bad they didn't do it, we probably wouldn't be discussing it anymore today. To adopt this proposal that each party in the executive process pays its costs, according to experts, about 80% of these problems and the rise in debt would not exist. What other parties could we and which party will we change Croatia when we insist or about the amendments, what should be further written in the Official Law? That interest can't exceed the principal. What else can be introduced into the Law of Law? Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State, you're making this historic executive law anyway, so if you've already got it, then don't write it, right? What else can be included? To change the method of calculating the determination of tight interest. I'm sure, I don't really know what you're doing but in the '96s. The year's tight interest was 30%. You who ruled the land back then, you robbed these people, it's a robbery. Compared to Austria, Germany, where the tight interest rates then were 8.9%, we had between 20% and 30%. That's not 10%, that's 10 to 20% more points. That's how you expelled people from Croatia. What else is there to change and put? So, I'm not if I'm criticizing I'm giving arguments behind everything I say, right? It's already been said here, so I'll just repeat, let it be declared obsolete for all those cases relating to blocked cases where the procedure lasts longer than two or three years, there's no problem agreeing. No group in Croatian society is so exposed to policy manipulations such as blocked and completed. Whoever comes to power, they're getting rid of them, they need their votes in the elections, or they're getting ready, and nothing's done right because we see that there's both the number and the amount of the blocked citizens. This is about an organized executive business where financial institutions, where lawyers, public notebooks, have found themselves, have developed at an enviable level of the executive business. You are now announcing in the context of what I'm saying and what the ruling coalition is planning, means to solve this problem against a blocked one. How? You'll approach it discreetly, you'll forgive someone, you won't, you'll create a new electoral base, a new clientelism, and it won't solve the causes that lead to it. Why? Because you're not your own, you're in the government of financial institutions, you're intruding and they've imposed political power. And here we have left and right neoliberalism in Croatia. With the same consequences. One party pretends to be socially sensitive and the other preaches about patriotism or patriotism. Both sides sold or failed those fine words. What do we have in the end? We have the result of a blocked, demographic downturn. I'm gonna say one thing now that sounds scary. The executive law and your failure to take all those who have been in power so far were instruments of actually ethnic cleansing in Croatia, economic and political. That sounds awful. But, gentlemen, here's an argument, at the time of the war of Serbian aggression, there was not so much escape and expelled citizens from Croatia as it is so effective because of such an executive law, because of the authority of financial institutions and for your convenience over the past twenty years. A few dozen billion kunas taken from citizens unnecessarily because of huge tight interest and the cost of the execution. This happened with the blessing of the CNB, which for years exhausted the company of citizens with high interest and further undermines Croatia in this way. HDZ and HNS will unfortunately not solve anything here because they are in the power of stakeholders. It'll be like a charity concert whose profits are short-lived. As a party, we changed Croatia last week, we had a program convention, we gathered about twenty top experts, I'm sorry the media didn't come in, whether it was a blockade designed or not, it'll show time, and what I'm saying here, I'm talking to the citizens who are blocked, who are listening to me right now. The party Change Croatia at the end of May will come up with a unique proposal for a solution that no one has ever come up with in Croatia, so we care about solving this problem definitely. Anything to propose a law of law tomorrow and even be good, what will it solve? He'll just solve it from now on. And who's going to solve this 10 years ago, 20 to now, these 40 billion, 3 billion kuna. Well, we'll offer a solution to that. Now, let me get this straight. So it is not just the Executive Law, its change enough to solve this huge problem, a great burden for Croatian society and individuals. These people can't understand any of us for as long as we try because we don't live in their skin, but it's a civilization shame. There is no such way in the EU and a model to say that it is a blocked citizen. So this is not an accident, this is no conspiracy theory, conspiracy. We must finally take the chains off our hands, the shackles of the people in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80902	Thank you very much. Mr. Lovrinović, you have two replicas. The first line has Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80903	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Lovrinovic, how can you and how can we even interpret that out of the total number of blocked citizens, which is 325 thousand, 160 thousand citizens are blocked towards teleopers. So, half of all the citizens in the blockade are debtors to teleopers. I don't think that's good. And their debt is only 2% of the total debt to those who owe 22.3 billion, which is mainly craftsmen, i.e. people who owe more than one million kuna and such debtors have 1.5%. So these are the figures we have to talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80904	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80905	Dear Mrs. Peric, I don't know what you wanted to ask. Your question is confusing. You may have wanted to clarify something, who is comatose and how much debt, how much a teleoper is involved, and so on. Well, it's you. Your client was selling HT. So, as you see, we come to extend, we want to buy, extend the contract, they say you have to close for two years. Why for two years? Why not for a year? So here in this country we've been working against people for years and it's no wonder they're mass evicting. This is a state of emergency and a state of emergency should be declared in Croatia because of the demographic decline and eviction of people and due to debt slavery. I repeat, the state of emergency needs to be declared in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80906	Thank you very much. Mr. Downhill, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Lovrinović that MOST when he proposed amendments to the Executive Law should have solved this particular problem that we are discussing today. But let's remind ourselves, in fact, when we put forward the bill and when we decided on the final proposal in July 2017, we gave a number of additional amendments. At that point, we were not familiar with the fact that the Constitutional Court would abolish the regulation because it actually happened later. And that problem came up after we brought to the Parliament almost unanimous amendments and additions to the executive law. Now, unfortunately, and of course, all of us, that the Constitutional Court, when it was already intending to abolish the regulation, and knowing that the Parliament was discussing the Executive Law, could have done it a little earlier, so we would intervene in the amendments then and propose an amendment. That's probably how it would have gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80908	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80909	Dear colleague Podolnjak, you should not always at all defend some of your failures because citizens are nicer and better heard sometimes when a man says or maybe we should have done this, we missed something, etc. That sounds better and more convincing. It's indisputable that you had the opportunity to do whatever you wanted. To block whatever you want, even to bring down governments for blocked purposes. Why not? You knocked her down anyway. Therefore, if it is to be torn down, it should be torn down for the right things. I will no longer enter the controversy because we are here opposition, but it is necessary to say what it was, therefore, could be introduced, to respect that amendment that everyone pays their own costs in the Executive Procedure, 80% of people would not be in this situation as they have been. So let's not argue about it now, that's how it was and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80910	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80911	Dear Vice President, Article 238. My colleague Lovrinovic, what you are now, I will not enter the controversy, but for the sake of truth, we have given that amendment you speak of and rejected by colleagues from HDZ and SDP. So that's exactly what the amendment means, and then you gave it to our 10 amendments and we supported all those amendments. There's no reason for us to politicize here right now, to call ourselves, when you know that this amendment of yours has been supported and we've still given it 10 amendments and they've all been rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80912	Thank you very much. Time has not been a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and on the next escapade you get a warning. Let's move on. ... It's not your turn, it's Mr. Ivan Pernar. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80913	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the subject of the executive law is indeed a hot topic because the fate of a blocked person can happen to any of us. I've been blocked myself on my own, so I know firsthand how the system works. Without notice, you've been squeezed into a block, no one's asking you anything. My wish is to warn the following, the SDP rightly does what these amendments propose. They're good and positive. But at a time when the SDP was in power, the SDP did not do enough to protect the blocked. So the number of blocked citizens has grown exponentially. This figure and their debt are not reduced and what is most surprising of all is that the actual debt is minor compared to the cost of the commission and interest. What does that tell you? This tells you that the debt of blocked citizens, theoretically, technically, is mathematically not repayable. It just keeps growing from month to month. And now what's the paradox? Although citizens are getting huge funds from accounts, it is undeniable, although it means even the charge is being made, but the debt continues to grow. The debt is still growing from year to year. And the question is, is the current executive model good? The HDZ that brought him in, he's convinced he did. The SDP now proposing some minor changes has also ignored calls for amending the executive law. Why? Because those blocked citizens don't care. It's the essence of the whole debate. When I say no one, I mean ruling. But there are some who have been ruling, and now they're plowing back those crocodile tears behind the blocked, saying it's hard for them, etc. As well as colleagues from the SDP. We can only discuss the impact of MOST on the government. Because it's clear that they were a smaller partner in that government and they couldn't decide everything. However, the SDP cannot say we were a smaller partner, we decided at the time of our mandate, as the HNS now decides with the HDZ in the coalition. What the CNS decides is God knows. That's my assessment of some minor stuff. So the SDP gentlemen don't have alibis, they can't say we haven't had time, you've had four years. You can't say we didn't know there was a problem so you knew it existed. What do I want to tell you? All your solutions, you have now brilliant solutions, one of the solutions is to allow medical hemp. Those are great solutions. But there's always a question of where you were while it was thundering. I remember when I was in the hospital, I was thinking about the Jordanian, some woman had to emergency me on, and she had a great need to do it, and she couldn't get out of bed and while I wasn't in the department, someone else could help her and helped her. The woman took a break, but when she saw me, I said, "Ma'am, what do you need?" She told Ivan that you were while it was thundering? Where were you while it was thundering? And that's this situation we're having with the SDP right now. They act like they're waking up from a winter dream. But what is an even bigger problem, HDZ is still in that winter dream. So unlike the previous rulings who have fallen into opposition, who are now as they see the problem, the ruling still do not see it. And they keep saying we're gonna make a new law, we're gonna make a new law, this one, but that new law nobody's seen it. No one really knows what's going to change that. Or will more than 300,000 citizens who are blocked for amounts I mean about 45 billion kuna, what does that mean for them? The only solution that enforcement must return to court's jurisdiction is that throughout the EU. This whole tarrapana has begun because executive proceedings have been transferred from courts to public notebooks. There's actually been an explosion. The other problem is that the order of payments is such that the principal is the last one to be paid. If the main charge was first charged, the interest could be stopped at the executive costs and actually interest on interest, i.e. cumulative interest. Because what's going on? Much of the debt blocked actually comes from this cumulative interest today. Complicated insertion is the eighth wonder of the world. You can't stop cumulative insertion and what happened without changing the law. Because you're starting from one assumption that the interest system must survive. Credit system, credit-based system must survive. And none of you dare at all question whether it's normal for the cost of interest to exceed the cost of the principal. Or to be five times his size, that's not a question to you. Why? Because in psychology your interest is something that is normal and morally acceptable. Hitting people with interest is a natural thing to you. Well, the state is so hitting people with interest 9% a year. But hitting interest isn't a normal thing. God specifically forbidded in the Old Testament, you have the example that interest is calculated within their community, Jewish, no interest should be calculated. But those of us who think we're smarter and wiser than them, that means what I'm saying? 4,000 years ago, Moses and his team saw the problem of interest, and today you do not see it. Although the people and states are in debt slavery. Why? Because you don't know about this problem or because you're on the side of a system that interests citizens. Please respond, gentlemen of the HDZ, from the HNS, from the SDP. Why do you think that? Lead your people to ruin, lead to the destruction of your own country and your own citizens. Regardless, it's the biggest tragedy of all, FINA boasts of her success in charge. And they're really charging the norms, but the thing is that debt continues to grow, debt continues to grow. Why is it growing, I'm explaining to you, complex insertion, or cumulative interest. It's problem number one in our country, but you don't care. You don't have that interest system, you don't have a problem with the interest model. And then, of course, the month-to-month debt, every month is getting bigger. And you're boasting that you're making GDP growth that you have this, that you have what, and you HDZ gentlemen have nothing. I was riding my bike down Medvescak towards Ribnjak, I met three bottle pickers in five minutes. I can tell you that on average on every 12th container there is a bottle picker. Is that normal for you? Unfortunately for you, it's normal. And I want to tell the citizens of Croatia this thought, until the Living Wall comes to power, the real government will have the interest system, the interest system, the interest system, the interest system because they have the real power. Because if HDZ had real power, HDZ would say let's help those blocked and we'll get the election. Rating HDZ fell from 34% to 24%, let's stop the interest system would say Plenkovic and get a lot of votes because it would help those people. But Plenkovic, by all accounts, doesn't want to, and I doubt he can help because he serves someone else, someone else's commands he listens to, not the will and desire of the citizens. The living wall appeared in Croatia exclusively as a resistance movement to your policy and I thought for a long time that when you see the success of the Living Wall, when you see our popularity that you will do something about stopping us, but not in terms of repressive measures to change the parliament's rules of procedure, etc. You won't stop us. I thought you'd do something for the citizens who are bitter and cut off by your politics and who are turning to us. But it seems that you really simply both HDZ and SDP must go into position, and Live Wall to Authority to solve the problem of blocked citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80914	Thank you, too. You didn't tell us where you were when the lady needed you, it would remain a secret between us. Mr. Grmoya, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80915	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar. I remember livingly here when we passed the executive law and when we gave these amendments we were and I remember how you came to me and said, says Grumoja if this goes through this is a breakdown of debt slavery. And I'm telling you, pal, don't give us too much credit, they'll figure out how good this is. But you say this is okay like that could do even better. And we hoped that colleagues would support HDZ and SDP at that time, unfortunately not supported. What's the point and why I've replicated to you, regardless of what you've just called your SDP colleagues here, they've made a proposal that goes in favour of the citizens, and I think we should support it regardless of what the SDP colleagues have done before or haven't done. Anything that is positive that goes in favor of our citizens should be supported. Also, you and I have invited all the MPs here in the assembly to support our amendments at that time, there have been amendments of yours... evictions... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80916	Time, time. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80917	Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy. The truth is that you gave excellent amendments and that they were good amendments and they would at least partially solve the problem or that was enough to say a systematic solution because you weren't dealing with one thing but with them maybe ten. However, you, like the SDP, suggested it only when you went to the opposition to the amendment. While you were in power you had President-in-Office of the Parliament to a colleague of God Petrov and Bozo Petrov could tell the people I was the one who determined the agenda and you could put changes to the executive law long before. And what happened? It was only when you fell out of power that this Parliament came into procedure and then you gave those amendments that are realistically good, but it was too late. Please, if next time he's in power with whoever you're with, I don't know that when you're in power, then give him changes to the executive law, not after.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80918	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80919	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Agent Pernar. It's really interesting how all parties when they leave power suddenly know what to do and then propose to increase social benefits, child benefits, minimum wages, change of Vatican contracts know everything when they're in opposition, but when they're in power, they don't know it. And you know why they know when they're in opposition? Because they know the law won't pass. And then when they come to power, they carry out the same policy they just spoke against. Please explain, I've been here for a year and a half, maybe I don't understand, what's the difference between SDP's foreign policy and HDZ? What is the difference between their social policy, what is the difference between their economic policy and what is the difference between the implementation of Minister Bošnjakovic's Executive Law and Minister Orsat Milenic? As you yourself said, the number of blockeds has increased ten times for the SDP governments, so this just seems like some subsequent mind that, unfortunately, won't have any effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80920	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80921	Mr. Bunjac, you say the number has increased ten times, but it would have been even bigger if at least 200, 300,000 Croatian citizens had not left Croatia. These citizens would now be blocked, which means that the social disaster has taken on the scale of the epidemic. But as you said, there is no difference between HDZ and SDP on monetary policy, there is no foreign policy, as far as Implementing Law is concerned, these are minor differences. In essence, the same policy of HDZ and SDP was no difference between King Marijan Hanžekovic's performance. But when they go into opposition, they act like they care, and I say when they were in power like you said, then the Vatican contracts were good for them, then it wasn't a problem for them to have medical hemps and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80922	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Peja Grbin will speak for five minutes on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80923	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President. I was hoping that this debate would pass without any rememergence, accusation and transfer and that we would concentrate on the problem. But, as usually happens in the Croatian Parliament, such hopes are in vain because at least one group always shows up, in this case, that group that has never been able to make a constructive proposal, which will only criticise and spit nothing and deny you the right to suggest anything just because they think you did nothing in your term. I didn't want to talk about it, but obviously I do. And I'm not throwing mud. Do you know why at one point the number of blocked suddenly increased? Because the blockades on the part of business banks, which had previously been implemented by the Implementing Law, had been blocked by each and every single decision on the enforcement on which all citizens' accounts were blocked. That blocking went through at FINA. And the moment FINA takes charge, that moment the data becomes available and that moment Croatian citizens and Croatian politics, and I will say unfortunately only that moment, is beginning to be aware of the scale of this problem. Dear colleague Pernar, you may not be aware of this, but before 2017, people were in debt before 2015, before 2011, before 2000, and richly before 1990. The fact is, and I will never deny it, that we could have done more. I'm very sorry about that, too. I wish we'd made more, I had some suggestions. At the end of the line, I spoke to your colleague Bunjc in 2011 at the 12th month I jumped on the head of all my colleagues until we abolished the public executives. Fortunately, public perpetrators have never lived, so in the consciousness of Croatian citizens do not exist as a problem that would be far greater than the FINA performance. Far bigger. Luckily, we stopped it. Should we have boasted a little more? I thought no, but when I see you, I understand the scales of my mistakes. We should've yelled at it with all our mouths and knocked on all the bells. No, we were wrong. God forbid it was the only mistake. Dear colleague Pernar and other colleagues, you have every right to criticise. I'm not going to deny it to you, but give it a little more objective. Give me some concrete suggestions. Your concrete proposals are almost gone. Here's one, for example. The one I'm going to give my best support for is the one that relates to the regulation of the sale of the debt. Yeah, I'm sorry we didn't think of that, and we didn't apply it when we were in power. It was shown on the basis of the data that exist today, when we see the extent of the change in debt, that it was something that Croatian citizens needed. But me in support of you for your bill won't mind me not agreeing with you about 10 other things. Today let us concentrate on this and try to convince our colleagues on this side of the assembly without whose hands this Law will never be adopted, how good this is for Croatian citizens, how little harm it is for believers, and how little effort they will need to make this a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80924	Four replicas. The first line has Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80925	Dear Mr. Grbin, it's no problem this proposal of yours as such. He's good. You said you'd like to hear more suggestions from your side. It's not a thing at all, we can give here 1,000 suggestions, we know in advance that none of our laws we propose will pass regardless of whether he's good or bad, in your opinion. Maybe even HDZ gentlemen agree that this change is good, but just because we're in opposition, that's why our law doesn't go through, which means that your thesis that we're making too few concrete proposals is declassified because we can say, 100,000 proposals, it doesn't matter. What matters is what they would do to me from the Living Wall if we were in power, or what you did when you were in power. That's the key, and here's the problem. We have a problem here that when you were in power, you had four years to solve the problem blocked. You didn't do it. The bridge is pulling out. Most says we've been half a year. You were four years old and you have no excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80926	Thank you. Mr. Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, you just confirmed my thesis, which is that you basically have no solutions. Now you're defending yourself, we're not going to suggest anything because it's not going to work anyway. So it is your obligation to the Croatian citizens who chose you to say what your solutions would be that on this basis I can assess whether you deserve their trust. Dear Mr. Pernar, every political system, including the blackest dictatorship, has power. But only democracy has opposition. And the task of the opposition is not what you do, constantly criticise and mud on everyone. The opposition's mission is to criticise but also to propose. ... You don't do that. [[You can't hear it.]] You don't do that, pal Pernar. Is because you have no knowledge, whether because you have no experience, whatever reason it doesn't matter. The fact is, colleague Pernar, you're not. Just as you now have no patience to listen to my line to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80928	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80929	Thank you very much, Vice President. My fellow coat of arms, I'm surprised at you. I'm surprised to you it is, you're a serious man who makes serious suggestions, that you eventually fell for rhetoric when we were and when we were and what would have happened. For the simple reason that, here, in the last one I would say, we've been removing the discussion for almost an hour from the subject it was. The theme is a very clear one provision of the law and try to argue and indeed you have here from the pay phone several times said, we need a dozen hands on the right hand side of this assembly that the amendment of the law goes which is only the alignment of what the Constitutional Court ruled and said you couldn't define it by the rule, you have to define it by law. So I'd say it's not even any message at all, but it's a technical message that will allow our citizens to sleep more peacefully but here's what's become of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80930	Thank you very much. I think the promoter said at the outset that he's surprised that we're sticking to the subject, but if you want to answer, fine. Thank you very much. As we complement ourselves, please, Mr. Lovrinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I liked one of your statements here when you made it clear that you could really do more. Now, I'm sure and the citizens are even more interested in it, I suppose you have the least share of it for inaction, so please tell the public and us here, if you could do it and it's good that you regret it in some way, people like it, why didn't you do more, did someone defend you within the SDP, otherwise in the SDP, are some financial structures? Is it possible you didn't know how to do it, so, if you couldn't, why couldn't, if you couldn't, who you shouldn't, tell who those groups were, why it was done like that? So here don't take this as a criticism at all costs, I immediately said, I repeat, the party We change Croatia will accept your proposal, but these things remain unclear, I would prefer that the president of your party here today said and he apologized and said here from now on we will be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80932	You were clear, Mr. Lovrinović. Time's up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80933	It wasn't a criticism, a respected colleague of Lovrinovic's, and I didn't realize him like that, I thought of him as a smart-ass. But my understanding of your speech is less important. It's much more important what you said, and I'll try to answer that. So I'm not, and hopefully, I really hope I'll never become so vain that I feel that what I've done with my work is the best thing that was possible at that moment. I also hope that I will never become a mother-in-law so much that I don't think I could have done better. Well, I'm not even like that when I've watched four years of power on my political options or my actions on that. I wasn't a minister, but as a parliamentary representative, I voted for all my party's proposals and I'm not running away from them, and I won't do it like many do when they leave the government. But I'll tell you one thing. as much as my colleagues were determined to resolve the situation of some citizens, you can best be witnessed by a colleague of Lalovac and a police escort whom he had to have for his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80934	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80935	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grbin, here I see that you like to be satirical in the Parliament, that's one novelty in your party's work, but I also said on behalf of the MP club that we support your law. What we want to explain is the context, however, and the context is that SDP and HDZ are actually natural allies, different faces of the same policy. I really don't understand the difference between your two parties. Please, you have one minute to explain it to me, I would really appreciate it, I don't understand, I saw your representatives clapping to Gordan Jandrokovic, I saw that Vice President Miljan Brkić publicly praises you through Face and invites you to the same table, to solve Croatian problems, so since we are so annoying to you, then go to those with whom you understand well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80936	Answer, Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80937	Comrade Bunjac, I could now tell you that it might be easier to ask your colleague Pernar because he was in the HDZ unlike me, so maybe he understands better the mentality of this political option, but I won't do it but I'll try to concentrate on just what we have today. For example, in the SDP, we believe that the full pay would be to introduce citizens into a slave relationship and in the HDZ they think that's okay and that's why they won't vote for the law. If this isn't enough difference for you, then everything else I'd tell you, it would be talking in the wind, and somehow I wish I kept being as satirical as you told me, not that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80938	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Grmoya will have an individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80939	Thank you, Vice President. Today, through this individual debate, I will talk about our fellow citizens, specific people, small entrepreneurs, a craftsman who is trying to survive in this system of performance that creates eternal debts for many citizens. We're all complicated here and it could be read through all the discussions that this system of execution is ineffective and unfair. The debt of blocked citizens amounts to over 43 billion kuna and 97% of the debt refers to citizens who have been blocked for more than a year. We support the proposed opposition initiative, so she helped only one citizen and we believe that every such step that goes forward in solving these problems should be supported by everyone here in the assembly and therefore our discussions and replicas have gone that way. We are witnessing that every once in a while we hear that the state is reprogramming debts after the beginning of time due to the inability to return the principal and the public debt is over 300 billion kuna in March 2018. However, this problem of oily citizens is little taken into account, a lot is spoken but few concrete solutions are offered. There was also an attempt to call the Bridge, as if we were offering something when we went into opposition, meaning total untrueness, you all remember that the executive law, the amendment to the executive law, was one of the conditions for the government to come together. However, we have managed to agree with HDZ the Executive Law, which is some improvement but not what we would all like. And that's why, after leaving the government, we also gave amendments, and we knew that, as counterpart Pernar said, the HDZ colleagues would refuse. And when you're in government, then you need to make a deal with those you're in government with. You can't change it with 13 hands, because you don't just have enough hands, you can't change things the way you want to. But we've been trying. And we tried maybe too much. That also shows the fact that we are no longer in government. We tried to change Croatia twice, we tried and took responsibility twice, we did not stay in opposition and just criticized and said this is wrong, this should be changed, what HDZ does is not good, what SDP does is not good. No, we took responsibility twice, aware that it might cost us a rating. And we've given up our positions twice. We have given up our positions twice for fighting corruption and insisting on transparency. And we immediately realized what the key problems of Croatia were. We immediately realized that the amendment to the Implementing Law was one of the conditions for co-operation with the HDZ. However, our view and their view of the problem in Croatia is not the same. What we've been able to arrange, is that they're traveling here to the constituency benches, to us as agents, then we've given more amendments. And supported all the amendments, the fellow opposition, if you remember correctly, everything means the amendments that came, we supported them because they were all in favor of our citizens. The government rejected Mosta's proposals on the deblockation of all accounts of the perpetrators over whom the performance was not successfully implemented over an uninterrupted period of one year. The government has refused, and most here mean the introduction of an absolute 10-year limitation period to carry out the operation, to prevent debtors from being liable for life or to be burdened with their debts by their successors. The Bridges also rejected the proposals that each party in the executive procedure should bear its own costs, so as not to exceed the principal amount of debt, etc. What was accepted within the law itself and what was a consensus, and everyone voted for it, which we got our hands for, is one improvement we're not satisfied with, of course. But the fact is that we're the only political option that hasn't spoken in a year. And for more than a year, she made a concrete proposal and made amendments. And so these accusations that we could hear don't stand here, but we don't bother with it, we offer concrete solutions and now through this movement of the rest, we refer legislative initiatives to the procedure and we want to change Croatia. We don't just want to criticize. We know that this government is bad, that it does not implement reforms. And also dear colleagues, we know that by amending the executive law, the problem of people in Croatia will not be solved. And if we have the best executive law in the world, again Croatian citizens will be in trouble because our economy is in bad shape. No reforms are being carried out. He had a European Council report criticising the Croatian government for failing to implement reforms. And that's the key problem. And these are the problems we need to solve. We need to help our entrepreneurs. It should allow people to create additional value, to open new revolutions, for entrepreneurs to start new businesses. And that's what we do. We have as many as 28 measures in entrepreneurship means what we're going to try to do in the process, of course we'll see when it comes to debate. We see now that the President of the Parliament puts a little bit more points of opposition, on Friday is one of our laws, though in the afternoon, late afternoons, but here, at least they'll argue and see, then ruling will say what they think. But I do not accept one thesis, which is said here, that we are in opposition and should not send anything into the procedure, for the ruling will refuse. So let them say no, but the citizens will see that we offer solutions without them wanting to accept them. And I remember very well that the Bridge has initiated amendments to the executive law, that it has given amendments, regardless of what some colleagues have now spoken here in the Assembly and that these amendments have been rejected. And we can talk now, whether you tried this or didn't try this. We tried everything we could to change things in Croatia, and some tell us we tried too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80940	Thank you, too. Now will speak Mr. Goran Aleksic... Here you go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80941	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So we need to get back to the beginning, what happened. It happened that the Constitutional Court abolished the provisions of the Regulation, which prevented the full application from being carried out. And then when that happened, I personally started to hear from people through social networks. Ten people came to me in panic because they signed a statement before the 17th June 2008 and since this was put out of force, a sword appeared on them that they would no longer have the money to live. I immediately started conversations with my co-workers in the party and with my colleagues and colleagues from the Franak Association, we studied the situation, for two days, it seemed to me that I organised a press release and called on the Ministry of Justice and the Constitutional Court to give a certain interpretation that would not allow it to be done. However, they all washed their hands of it, and for the first 10 days they refused to speak at all. I don't know if anyone but me here in the Croatian Parliament was making a big deal out of it, I don't remember, I really don't remember. I know that I did, and I know that it was done and the association was blocked, and now whether that mess we've been making for days helped or not, but the banks, the biggest ones, they decided they weren't going to make all the receipts, and the truth is that later it turned out that the big business banks weren't doing all the receipts, even though they were allowed to do it according to that Constitutional Court decision. There was a small bank that was still doing such an errand, and I'm not going to mention its name now, and I can actually, it was Slatinska Banka, and some people started to report that Slatinska Banka was taking their full receipt, and then I went straight to Slatinska Banka, and we talked there with their leaders, and Slatinska Banka promised that it would no longer work. And according to my information, the Slatine Bank doesn't do that anymore. But I personally went to the Slatine Bank with my associates. No one else did. That's what we did from the Power Party and from the Association Frank joined together. We went to Slatinska Banka and people figured out the problem and they didn't want to jeopardize their ratings because these big banks also decided that they weren't going to make the full receipts, precisely because they weren't going to crash because it's not good today. But what is questionable about this Constitutional Court decision? Absolutely nothing. This decision of the Constitutional Court is a decision taken for technical reasons, because the minister does not have the right to affect the legal provisions, he does not have the right to determine by the Regulation what will apply in the law and what will not apply in the law. And that is the only reason why the Constitutional Court abolished a part of the regulation that was previously prescribed not to make full receipts. Therefore, there is no reason why the provision should not be retroactive; it is not because it would be a threat to the rule of law; it is not because it would be an effect on some mandatory legal relationship between the creditors and the debtors; it is not that reason, however, that the Constitutional Court decided at the end of 2009 on the basis of one judicial ruling by the County Court that the full salary should not be carried out. Namely, the County Court, I do not know exactly which decided that the full salary may be carried out on the basis of one action, followed by a constitutional suit and the Constitutional Court decided at the end of 2009 that the constitutional action was founded and abolished the final judgment of the County Court and said that Article 55 and 56 respectively, depending on which version of the Constitution you observe, whether the consolidated Constitutional Court or the one published in the NN, so the Constitutional Court found that, on the basis of Article 55 and Article 56 respectively, depending on which variant we see, each citizen of the Republic has the right to earn a decent man. For yourself and your family. And that was the basis for destroying the decision of the County Court, the ruling of the County Court that the full reception may be carried out. So the Constitutional Court wouldn't tear down this law that the SDP proposed, no, no way. This law before the Croatian Democratic Union takes it down, that's a fact. And that's what half-truths are for. And the half-truth is that the rule of law is being threatened. Because the truth is when we influence some previously established contractual relations that some rule of law has been violated. However, it would be violated if we took away the right of the believer to have the right to his principal, to his strained interest, at his own expense. If we were to take away the believer's right then it would be an influence on the rule of law, but we don't. We only want to equalise the debtors who signed a statement before 17 June 2008 and those debtors who entered certain contractual relations after 17 June 2008 and did not sign such a statement. What's the problem with those statements? Those were type contracts. When someone signs a type contract, it's a principle take it or leave it. The debtor who signed such a statement had no other choice, he had to sign it. Because the law didn't protect him at the time. So the Constitutional Court, I say, would not break this law. This law, before it was passed, destroyed the ruling coalition. And it doesn't serve them the honor. Fortunately, I have to say fortunately, I have no information to make full pay, that's a fact. But even that fact speaks for the fact that the law should be adopted and passed without a problem because no one would object to that law or complain because it does not apply it. What was before was not applied obviously. Therefore, no one would even ask for a constitutional assessment, since no one would even ask for a constitutional assessment of what fear? And on the other hand, if this request were to be for the assessment of constitutionality, since the draft law is under way, and since you from the ruling coalition claim that this law will solve everything, I don't know what we can be afraid of. There's no reason why this law should not be passed. Therefore, I will certainly support this law, and I have given an amendment which further specifys that these amendments also apply to Article 202 of the executive law, as Article 202 of the Code speaks of the amendment signed before 17 June 2008. However, this is even a very small change, what should urgently change in the executive law, are the things proposed by the SNAGA, the Living Wall, the Most and HSS through the anti-executive package. So it's urgent to cancel the legal fees of the debtor, so if the believer needs a lawyer, let him pay his legal expenses. It is urgent to abolish the possibility of carrying out a property that is mortgaged from an illegal contractual relationship, and the contractual relationship is illegal because it has an unfair, unlawfully established interest rate. Under the urgent need to increase the capital from 20 000 kuna to 50 000 kuna minimums under which real estate is not to be completed, under the urgent need to tighten interest in the Mandatory Relations Act to limit the level of the principal and the reverse order of payment of the principal interest and the costs in order to first charge the principal and then the costs and interest. I hope that this will be settled in the new law of law, because if it is not settled in the new law of law, then the new law of law will not be worth much, because what the Government is about to propose now, what we heard from the media that might look like, it will only be fire-fighting measures. If these measures are not accepted which we have proposed through an anti-executive package, which reduce costs and which finally allow debt to be paid, in this sense firefighting measures have no purpose if these measures are not followed, which are systematic and long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80942	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80943	Well, thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Alexic, thank you very much for returning in your debate to what is the topic of the debate, which is one of the amendments to this law. And in doing so, it is clear and unequivocally that the Constitutional Court did not go into measurement, but through one other verdict it showed, as it would have judged, but said you couldn't handle it with a rule, you need to solve it in some other way. In doing so, I think it is less important who was first, second, third, who was in that smarter and role of each parliamentary representative is to help citizens who turn around. I understand this debate, and I understand it that way, but really this debate should go that way. It's about a real change, I don't see a single reason, maybe you see what's the reason why fellow ruling HDZ together with their coalition partners can't accept this kind of change that would actually allow citizens who have recklessly signed such a statement that they sleep peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80944	Thank you. Mr. Alexic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80945	Thank you. Dear colleagues of the Dark-Taritash. Well, I have to remind myself of the history that it was, you know. I don't have a PR service, I don't have anyone, and I'm praising myself. Here I have to praise myself because I don't have a PR, PRs who work for me, I work for myself, I have to represent myself. I have to remind people what I've been doing, here. Now, whether it's ugly or not, I'm a public person, so I have to do it. And as far as this other one is concerned, the reason is because the opposition suggested it. There's no other reason. They reject anything the opposition proposes, reject, even if that's good. And even if it is neither harmful nor dangerous, and even if it is no problem at all, in the constitutional sense, nor in the mandatory legal sense. They are simply on the knife at everything the opposition proposes and they would gladly accept my suggestions if I were to approach them and be 78 hands, but here I can't be the 78th hand because I have some kind of party discipline, and if I were independent, maybe I would be. Who knows?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80946	Thank you very much. Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic, I've been waiting for your debate to end so I can see what your position on this amendment is that you have handed over to explain it a little more. And after you have explained the amendment, I can say on behalf of the promoter that we accept the amendment that you have submitted as a representative. Here, that would be the replica I have on your exhibit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80948	Mr. Alexic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80949	Thank you. Dear counterpart Grbin, we generally agree on almost all mandatory legal and other legal issues because we are both legalists. Thank you for accepting the amendment and for accepting it, in fact. They tell me that I'm anti-systemic, that I'm an anti-systemic party, but what the SNAGA Party does, what the Franks do, what I do, it's not anti-systemic, but it's an action through the system to direct the system in that direction that is possible. And this particular law that you've proposed is that direction that is possible, so it's not something that's against the system, but rather, it's an action within the system to make things that don't work out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80950	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Bunjac, Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80951	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We're discussing an article today. That's the whole point of changing this law. As I have already said on behalf of the club, the Living Wall will support, not only these changes, but all other changes that go in favour of the citizens, regardless of who wrote them, which we have proved among other things in cases where we even raised our hands for HDZ laws, regardless of what they refer to us as sectarian, or reject all of our laws as soon as they see who wrote them, no matter what they write in them. I would remind you that we have raised our hands for the Minimum Salary Act and some other laws, which means that we are really interested in better living citizens, not politicizing things. Given that the amendment of the law itself comes down to several sentences, it was not bad in this debate to point out and the context of the overall executive problem, and then we talked about that individual parties when they are in power to enforce the law, and when they come into opposition, then they are his great opponents. Moreover, these same parties to the Living Wall, which is therefore the main party that is fighting debt slavery, because breaking debt slavery is the very basis of our programme. The only party in Croatia that has absolute priority. Then they say you don't offer any solutions, etc. And I'm glad that Agent Grbin mentioned it because it's actually a harangus he's been spending against us for months claiming that we're just talking and we're not doing anything. In order to disprove these claims, I can briefly say this, that thanks to God there are statistics on the sides of the Assembly, there are agendas, phonograms and other statistics where it is clearly seen that the living wall has proposed 15 laws, that it has proposed more than one hundred amendments, 80 parliamentary issues minimum, that our representatives are walking on all committees, that they participate in the work of all parliamentary groups, that we are therefore more active than 80% of SDPs and similar representatives together, that we have no penalties for unwarranted absences, that even now, even if the SDP proposes our law twice as many as their club representatives. It says in itself how interested we are in this topic, and how much those who shed crocodile tears are hoping that in this way I don't know which times they'll trick voters and get some small percentage on the ratings. As for our program, our solutions, on Sunday there will be a party convention Live Wall, there you will be able to hear them all, see people and I hope that you will finally stop with these incorrect lunches once and for all. As far as the MOST party is concerned, she was in power for 16 months. She had a minister of justice, she had a minister of police, she had a president of parliament, she had several other ministries, but we saw that the number of blockeds had not been reduced, that their debts continued to grow and that they were all those harmful laws that are now attacking, voted for them and voted for them today if they hadn't been expelled from the government. They didn't leave the government, they were expelled from it. And the problem is that MOST representatives are not the problem with the HDZ programme as well as with SDP representatives. It's just that the only problem is the people who carry it out. That's the fundamental difference between the Living Wall and the rest of the quasi opposition. So these are people's problems, not programs, and we don't care who people are at the head of HDZ and who people are ministers because our program is a problem. That's what our problem is. We have the problem of the EU, NATO, banks, corporations, GMOs and all the madness that comes to us in order to obey the freedom of Croatian citizens and the state itself. Yes, the truth is, we've never collated with either of these parties, nor will we ever coalition, and we know and see that all parties present in the Parliament are prepared to do so. We are at no cost at all, we will work in the interests of citizens and offer a real, not a false alternative, so that indeed citizens will regain confidence in politics and find a way to make changes that have actually been waiting for decades. We're the only ones brave enough, systematic enough and professional enough to break debt slavery. The only question is when are we going to do this and that is what citizens are increasingly recognising and what will ultimately really solve this problem, not a change of one article, not a change of one amendment, not some press with two people, but a sincere desire, a genuine political will to finally and definitely change the interest of 99% of citizens, rather than a narrow, small group that generates enormous profits on their torture and their hard day-to-day work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80952	Thank you very much, Mr. Bunjac. There was no replica, was there? Okay. Mr. Miro Bulj, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80953	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As we agree, the executive law is a law that is cancerous and which is a number of citizens of debt slavery, and so is the entire economic and economic system, because without an individual who is in debt slavery, a large number of individuals who are in debt slavery are transferred to society and, of course, in that community in our Republic, when we look at how much money only banks take on compensation, not on interest, but compensation. These same banks, when we see how much money, even 11% were more interest in Croatia from these same banks than in their countries of origin, I believe that this proposal given by the SDP club solves the problem, I see no reason for this problem that the Constitutional Court has declared that it does not comply with the law. So, it's out of force and we're simply dealing with this problem of people who signed it for three years in that period in 2005-2008 signed that their entire salary could be paid. I think it's something normal that needs to be supported and I don't see anyone in parliament and I don't expect both colleagues from the CNS, HDZ and other parties to support this. Otherwise, we saw, to get back on the subject, this is where whoever did what comes back. Believe me, fellow you who criticized us at the MOST club, you can do it with the right, but the fact is that you wouldn't have been in parliament if it hadn't been for the first time, and that for the first time there wasn't a choice because of the views, you have to remember that. I'd like you to replicate, so ask me about it. You must remember here I, as a representative, did not vote in favour of the 2017 budget, therefore I expect from other MPs, no matter what I was a majority. but all the time criticizing the only ones who gave a bill that was a condition and after two months we left the government. We didn't leave without a clue, we weren't thrown out for the first time. I see that my colleague Bunjac mentioned the Bridge on several occasions, believe me, my colleague Bunjac would not have been in Parliament with so many votes that there was no Most, that there were no extraordinary elections, that there were no 12 people who said no treason of national interests, not overstatement. But unfortunately, I'm sorry that people on your list are holding this majority, and you are in this at this very moment in power. If you're doing this connected or not, I'm not going in there, there's all kinds of information. I hear you're the one who controls the majority, and even in the judicial system, there are people on your list. We were open and I was my first, first one when it was the performance of my representative's question was Minister Sprite, so Minister Bridge's where I fiercely attacked Raiffeisen's cooperatives, where I attacked the Executive Law. It's very easy to check, and he wasn't very comfortable, I remember when I asked him these questions. So let's go back to this problem, the problem of undermining the amendment of this law will be that of the people who are now due to the Constitutional Court who have made such a solution cannot be solved by a regulation, we must put this into law so that people are not paid the full pay. I think it's the end and the beginning of the story. Of course I expect that from my colleagues from HDZ, we're not doing anything here and the SDP, I think this is much more important. This is a convention of all conventions, this is the life of citizens, this is life. This is what the Constitutional Court said was that it meant the rule that it was not in conformity with the Constitution. And we're a social state, we're a state that needs to protect our citizens socially endangered, and whoever is without any income is not free citizens, right now is. But we also expect the law to fully implement the executive law that you mention to the esteemed secretary, but in 2017 it was said the same way when it was our Executive Act. I am also not pleased that there is a very small list of those who will discuss this law, when many ideological other issues that are not so important to our citizens, are much larger lists. I'm sorry that the members of the opposition and even the promoter are in very few numbers. I'm sorry that these laws aren't discussed for a long time and that we don't come to a common conclusion that what is good to support and solve this problem that the SDP has put forward. And I personally don't see any problem, and I don't agree with a thousand things with my SDP colleagues, but this is something I have to agree with if it's a matter of life. On the issues of our citizens, regardless of their worldview, their religion, their nationality of all our citizens in our community of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't see any reason not to support this bill, this little change. Everything else I consider pure politicizing and buying small points. I don't know, as an activist, I also didn't mention I have criminal charges who knows how much, but at this point it doesn't matter. At this point, there's a man who doesn't have a salary, and we can only raise our hands for this change, there's no receiving at all because his entire salary is complete, blocked, and I think only by raising his hand can we handle it. I do not believe that colleagues from HDZ will not support it or fellow Boric, I cannot believe it at all that they will not stand behind people who do not have swear salaries. It's the same for you to now complete your salary to the ministers what your colleagues said, the full full pay, which wouldn't be right. Let's stand behind these people who now don't know how to survive, how to get to the circle of their children, how to pay the marenda to children, how to pay the way, how to secure any money. I think it's a minimum of what we can do. It doesn't matter who suggested it or who suggested it, whether it was SDP or someone else. But in the end, I'm going to point out again, I'm disappointed just because when I look at it being discussed very briefly about this problem, no one's included a very small list, but when ideologically, when the story of ideological worldly topics is then the list is completely different. Look, this is a convention of all conventions, the problems of people living, people who don't have the opportunity to raise swears on an ATM, and they can't raise their salary. This is the story of all stories. That's why I expect one more time from all of us, some of us here have spoken to my colleagues, so here I don't see any reason, my colleagues sometimes in the past debates to vote on our conscience, and here it's simple, vote on your conscience. Secretary, I know you've been given the assignment and the PR that it's too soon to talk about being a few months before the election, so bring that bill, but by then people will either move out or stay hungry, poor in containers. This solves a number of people, which doesn't matter, one, one. I know you think as much as I do, but you can't say because you've been assigned by the minister and the government, but really fellow MPs, this is one problem that's so easy to solve, and I don't have any problem with what SDP suggested, but in a thousand things I don't agree with the SDP, and on these things I'll agree right now, I won't think at all. I'm glad when colleagues from the Living Wall proposed their laws that were good and what they would suggest in the future, the SNAGA and the HDZ, everything, everything is fine. Waiting means last-minute secretary. What's the last moment waiting for? 'Cause the PR's gonna do it? Well, the fact that people are going to be without pay for another year is a minor problem. That's not a problem for you at all. I know you're thinking about me, but you're under orders, right? That's how you got into the government. It's a simple, unnatural government. That's how the ship sinks, if you sink now it's over. That's what you think. But there were 12 brave people when there were extraordinary choices, you remember that, it's not funny to you, it's funny to you? It's not funny to these people whose whole pay is done, who can't be raised. It's funny to you, isn't it? But I do know your situation, but I believe that fellow MPs will support this proposal where the full salary of our citizens who make it will not be blocked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80954	Thank you. Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80955	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You know, there's this legend about the siren and they call it the siren hard to resist. So I would kind of comment on the way we're having this debate, so on one side we have an opposition which, at least, people sitting on the side of the opposition, which we have individual discussions with each other, so we're replicating each other, ruling, we had on behalf of Mrs. Jelkovac's club, we had a secretary of state who only turned once and said I'm not going to respond to the replicas, and I think Mrs. Makar gave one replica to this ruling side. So the way the debate is being held on this side of the opposition turns out to be that the elections are almost at our door and that there's actually in this center of the left electoral body everyone's trying their part of the cake taken so maybe colleagues know something that I don't know, so I'm going to ask them, maybe there's something going on that I don't know so I know. But I would still go back to the scale of things. We have one fact, so we have the fact that our fellow citizens have signed a statement that for obtaining credit they will be able to make their full salary or their entire income or whatever we call it. I have to admit, things don't start with us, nor will they end with us. They started a long time ago, and it doesn't surprise me. We had a tradition of loan-lifting in these areas, we had a tradition that the banks, they didn't even ask what kind of property you had, that legal, illegal, you gave the owner, you didn't own, they were willing to take that property in stock. We had one of those big inflation periods when you took out a loan so after you paid it off, that price was, I don't know the price of one not too expensive lunch, so it's really in one period, especially that period, you need to know when the expansion was, when it was building a lot, a lot of it was happening, that people might have easily signed something. However, there was 2009. In 2010 there is a recession in the whole of Europe and so is Croatia and the world. And of course, as one answer to that provision that was, that fact was a rule. That rule was in force, the banks did, let's just say, honestly, they really did follow the rulebook and everything else. However, the Constitutional Court's ruling and in 2017 it did not enter the metrics, but she said that you could not define it by regulation, you must define it through the amendment and addition of the law. Which would be more logical, because if a single man is watching us now and fears whether he will find himself in a situation in a month or two to do his whole pay, it's worth this whole debate and it's worth all this, so this whole afternoon, this debate, this argument, and this argument, because I don't see it as a world-class, or a topic of left or right, or the topic of whether someone in some elections will collect 10 voters more or less, or the topic of who was first, or who's smarter, or who's nicer, or who's better talking, than one technical amendment to a law in which something the Constitutional Court said is not good in the rule, we put in the law, we put the citizens asleep, and we end the whole story. On several occasions on this side of the pay phone are my colleagues and I repeat it now, according to the rulings, so what costs you here is one change so small, so I don't say a very simple one to actually adopt, let's show some good will that we have a common interest in Croatian citizens. And about all of us, what individual debates and everyone else is saying, we support this amendment to the law, we will vote for it. But numbers never lie to you. The numbers say that the ruling has 77 hands, and that we have 74, and that's a fact for you and we can all come, we can all work hard, but the facts and the inevitable numbers are there. So we're not asking those 77 hands this time, but it's kind of an application for 3, 4 hands that would then give life to this law, but let's try to remove all that was the first, who was the most struggling there, who was the most involved, who was doing this or who was doing that. Let's try to get it out of the way and see what this one change of law is all about. The point is that the citizens who signed it are not afraid that their bank will change their mind or will not change its mind, they will sleep peacefully. After that, life will go on, there will be the same temperature as 30 today, but we will send some message and say, look, these in the Assembly are often debated quite often and we don't understand what they're discussing, but here, however, there is a little shift made and a little change in the executive law is made. The executive law will certainly in the media, in terms of everyone else and politically, take up a large field in all our media, firstly visible from this debate who wrote a better law, so who was the first one to write it, so who is the most trying and telling citizens I am that citizen is it anyway. Finally, citizens will see what kind of law will be and whether this law will bring them peace, peace, security or not. And there is no forward in this Croatia, believe me. I'm a lot of years old, I'm in politics regardless because it seemed long or not, very, very short. But I have a long life experience, an experience because I've worked with people. And that experience when you work with people and when someone comes to your office and about whether you will quickly or slowly issue a building permit depends on the life of him and his family, you understand everything at the same time. And I'm really trying to use that method in this House. I don't have any problem with any laws that the rulings propose, which I appreciate are good laws, saying they're good laws and I'm going to vote for them. And I don't think I'm any worse in this part of the opposition or not. Likewise, let's try to show that ruling has no problem with what someone suggested on the other side of this assembly and that they will say, yes, it is one provision that allows citizens to sleep peacefully. But there's a lot of one more message being sent. Look, they can make a deal. How are we going to agree one day on an executive law that is of interest to all of us to be a good executive law. We even know and we can say we all rely on the Slovenian model. I must admit, when I watched it a little bit, the Slovenian model was the best. So how can we give faith to the citizens that we will agree on one executive law, if one is like this, I would say, I won't use it so someone doesn't get me wrong, or any really technical changes to the law we can't agree on. Messages from this assembly, we're sending various messages. One of the messages is, of course, political where we are. The second message is that one of the MPs stands up. But the third message is that the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be our first priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80956	Thank you, too. Next is Mr. Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right. ... On behalf of the promoter, will you? [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. But it's nice to have someone take their word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Mr. Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80957	It's not on behalf of the club, it's what... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're witnessing a rather paradoxical situation. Therefore, the SDP Representatives Club proposes to amend an article of the law, which the finance minister addressed to the Constitutional Court all-out. The government whose member and the finance minister are then giving a negative opinion on our law. Representatives' clubs support our law, but they give a negative opinion on our work while we were in government, and the result will be that citizens will continue to be paid full wages only because of one political stubbornness and I would say, one irrational change of parliamentary majority is something that is simply the most normal proposal. It's no coincidence this change won't happen. So today is April 25th, and we sent this proposal to procedure on October 27th last year. That's true, I think, half a year from today, or the day after tomorrow. The government was manifested on November 23, 2017, on the Committee on Justice was on December 13th and then we waited for this new business provision to be put on the agenda with our signatures and we decided to use that business law as the first point. We're waiting for 60 days to pass, so next time we'll probably do it with the mandatory relationship law that talks about the same theme, which is that, and that's what Mr. Bunjac mentioned in his presentation on behalf of the club, that first not in paying the debts, so not to take down the interest rate immediately, then the principal, but only then, that it goes in one proportional order. And that was also refused by the government. So, we regret that, if this is the position of the parliamentary majority clubs remains, this law will not be accepted because the Constitutional Court has also said that what it says in the Regulation, that it can, must be resolved by amendments and additions to the Law, and the Government has stated in its statement that it is unconstitutional, so that the Constitutional Court obviously does not know what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional. I thank everyone who participated in the debate anyway. Since the vote is probably too soon, it may change its mind in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80958	Thank you, Mr. Bauk. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow we will continue the debate with the proposal for a law on audio-visual activity, first reading, at 9.30 p.m. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 17.56 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80959	We are going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Executive Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by representative Goran Aleksic. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on Amendments shall be made known by the Proposer, and by the Government if he is not the legislator. I'd like a representative of the motion, please, excuse me. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the amendment. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the amendment submitted. With us is State Secretary, Honored Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80960	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has the view that such a law on the completion of the Executive Act is not accepted for the reason that it produces retroactive effects on the relations between private persons and that it is contrary to the principle of rule of law in which it is unquestionably incorporated and the expectations of all participants of private relations, which are parties to respect their legitimate expectations in these legal matters, especially if they have, and in this case, concluded them under the applicable rules of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80961	Thank you. Therefore, the Government does not accept this amendment, so I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Executive Act which is not adopted by the Government... The vote on the amendment, whether or not the applicant has adopted the amendment. ... [[You can't hear it.]] And then you should, so I apologize. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. Then let's vote on the amendment... And does he need an explanation then? [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80962	I'm asking for a vote on the amendment, anyway. The amendment was accepted by the proposings, however, not by the government, so I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80963	Excuse me, are you asking for a vote? Then let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80964	In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation I would like to ask the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes on this item of the agenda, i.e. voting on this Proposal for the Law, and please allow me to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80965	You have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80966	Thank you, Mr. President. I will repeat once again, the law in question requires the abolition of the possibility of execution on the entire salary of the perpetrators. Twice during the course of the proceedings before the Constitutional Court concerning the abolition of the Regulation for which we had to adopt or refer to the procedure of this Proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown this. The statement was sent by your party colleague, Minister Maric, and said that the abolition of this Regulation, which is the same as the proposed Law, would lead to the result that employees in the Republic of Croatia would be brought into a slave relationship with the believers. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Croatia supported such a measure in 2016 and 2017. She doesn't accept it today, probably because of the person who proposed it. For this reason, we from the Club of Representatives of the SDP are asking for a 10-minute break so that distinguished colleagues from the ruling majority will have a chance to reconsider what their life would look like if their entire salary were seized. What would their life look like if they didn't have their incomes for a month? That's why, please, Mr. President, according to the article. 248th to determine a 10 minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80967	I'm going to have to grant a break, but from what I understand, not to let you consult, but to give others a chance to consult. If these others have already been consulted among themselves, then perhaps you're giving up that break? [[/Smackback: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80968	There are other clubs. We also have a club MOST, etc. Your Honor, Mr. President, the break is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-04-25-0.u80969	I have to give you a break, but I'm keeping the explanation a little problematic. At 13,15, then we vote on this law. It's a 13.05 p.m. meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:15 A.M.]] Therefore, I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Executive Law, which is not accepted by the Government or by the parliamentary working bodies. I find that the law was not passed because it did not receive the required number of votes, there were 17 votes in favour and 72 votes against. This brings us to the end of the vote.
