ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96379	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here at the beginning of today's work, I would suggest we unite the first two points, so this is: - The final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021 between the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 427 - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021 between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. 426 For both things are about confirming a memorandum of consent regarding finance. Do you agree? Is anyone against it? No, well, I'm glad. Both acts shall be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Pursuant to Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, laws confirming international contracts under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are laid down as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and by the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, Mr Velimir Zunac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96380	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. Before you, the final proposals of the Law on the confirmation of the EEA and the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021, as you know, the Republic of Norway and the Republic of Norway opened negotiations with Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein on the conclusion of the Memorandum of Implementation of these financial mechanisms in March 2017 and they ended on 28 February 2018, so when these negotiations were finalised on these two financial mechanisms. Therefore, at its session held on 27 June 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate a Memorandum of Understanding procedure on the implementation of both the Norwegian Financial Mechanism and the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2014 to 2021. The Memorandum was signed for the Norwegian Financial Mechanism by the Ambassador, Ms Astrid Versto, on behalf of the Kingdom of Norway and, on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Gabriela Zalac. Also, the EEA financial mechanism was signed by the representative of Iceland, the representative of the Principality of Liechtenstein and also the Ambassador to Zagreb on 3 July, so on behalf of the Kingdom of Norway and our Minister Gabriela Žalac on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, this law confirms the Memorandum of Understanding of both the Norwegian and the EEA Financial Mechanism and therefore all its provisions in accordance with Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which means it becomes part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. So, both the one and the other memos, the proportion of donor countries cannot be greater than 85%, and so the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure a 15% co-financing with some programmes such as a civil society programme, such as a programme implemented by the Office of the Financial Mechanism, intergovernmental organisations and some other programmes under special regulations, so they are fully funded by these financial mechanisms. As regards the Norwegian financial mechanism, what is therefore important to emphasise is that the programme of innovation and research, education and competitiveness and the social dialogue programme, technical assistance to the state of users, reserves and the bilateral relations fund is therefore fully financed by the financial mechanism and therefore the programme of local development and poverty reduction and the justice and home affairs programme, so the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure co-financing in that percentage. The Norwegian financial mechanism for the period from 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2021 for the Republic of Croatia is 338 148 075 kuna and 20 limes, so the gift of the Kingdom of Norway's Republic of Croatia is 319 817 547 kuna and 52 June, so a little less than 32 million kuna and the Republic of Croatia is obliged to provide co-financing in the amount of 18 330 527, 68 kuna through the Norwegian financial mechanism. Therefore, co-financing costs will, of course, enter into the regular budgetary resources of the individual body of the state administration. When we talk about the EEA financial mechanism, he has slightly different figures. Therefore, the total value of the EEA financial mechanism for the period 2014-2020 is 444 812 120 kuna and 42 June, slightly less than 445 million kuna and the value provided for by Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway, so it totals 389 820 530 kuna, so a little less than 390 million kuna, while the rest which the Republic of Croatia is obliged to co-finance from the state budget is 54 million 991 thousand 590 kuna and 42 June, so slightly less than 55 million kuna. Of course, here too, co-financing costs will enter into the regular budgets of individual authorities of the state administration. Therefore, in addition to that decision, the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at its session held on 27 June to establish a system of management and control of the use of the EEA financial mechanism and also to the Norwegian financial mechanism for the period 2014-2020. So also in this sense, the bodies in the system are defined, such as the national focal point that will actually be in the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds... strategic planning and coordination of EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, the certification body will, of course, be the sector for the national fund’s activities with the Ministry of Finance, the audit body will be functionally independent of the national focal point and the certification bodies. This will, of course, be our Agency for the Audit of the EU Implementation System and Programmes. Of course, for each program there are different programme managers, so what I would like to stress here, and it is important that you know that all the programs are meant to be, we say, negotiated through the already mentioned rounds of negotiations and that they are contained in so-called. the blue book or blue book, which is the basis of which, therefore, both the Republic of Croatia and the donor countries set out in the negotiating positions and through which they tried naturally to achieve what is a priority for each of them. So through these agreements and negotiations that were not easy, we came to the final negotiations that are today in front of you where you mean, the total alocation is trying to bring as close as possible to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and, of course, in these negotiations, we wanted these financial resources to finance things that, therefore, are not possible for funding from European Structural and Investment Funds. So what it means now follows these memoranda, consent, both to the Norwegian and the EEA financial mechanism, therefore follows the making of documents called programming summarys for each of the individual programmes and therefore, it is minimum 6 months, and after that the preparations will go into which the programme managers, which are therefore set up a system for implementation each under their programme. Of course, all the programmes will be in the form of public calls or tenders that we expect in the second half of 2019 and what is here for further emphasis is that, when we talk about the Norwegian financial mechanism, the most important projects or programmes will be innovation, research, education and competitiveness programmes totalling 22 million euros, or around 164 million kuna, where the objective of the programme is to create additional value and sustainable development, and the programme means, in terms of justice and home affairs where the objective is to strengthen the rule of law, and the total amount to be financed through this programme is about 13 million euros, i.e. almost 97 million kuna, and co-financing of the state budget somewhere at 17 million kuna. There are different measures, of course, that will be implemented under certain programmes, but now if you have questions. As regards therefore, the EEA Financial Mechanism, the programme which is therefore the largest programme of local development and poverty reduction totalling 25 million euros, means something over 186 million kuna where the Republic of Croatia needs to ensure co-financing of nearly 33 million kuna. So, the goal is to strengthen social and economic cohesion, and the energy and climate change programme where the 17m-euro alocation, or more than 126m kuna, is to provide 3m euros of co-financing or over 22m kuna of co-financing. Here the special emphasis will be of course on renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, energy security, mitigation... climate change and adaptation to climate change with particular emphasis on geothermal and hydroenergy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's another programme that concerns civil society organisations. Therefore, support for strengthening civil society, active citizenship and strengthening vulnerable groups totalling 8.5m euros means over 65m kuna. It is therefore fully financed by this EEA financial mechanism. Here, so much in this opening argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96381	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96382	Thank you very much. This instrument of this memorandum where we have it means 103 million, these two, 103.4 million. So the contract can be negotiated by 2021, and the minister... my colleague Cikotic, says the first competition will be held in late 2019, which means we are late because this means, from 2014 to 2021. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall be implemented by 2015 from 21-15. Are you going to be able to call a contest at all? We have an official answer here, so this is not a game, this is huge money, this is about money to reduce local poverty, local development, civil society, education. These are numerous projects, huge money. A little less than a billion kuna. Only the first competition will take place at the end of 2019, and the contract may be up to 2021. What's going on?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96383	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96384	Thank you very much for asking. We're not late for anything, even though we're talking about the '14-21 period right now. We are definitely on all deadlines, so the competition will be in the second half of 2019. The contract will be in '20. Or the 21st time, so let's go plus 3 years, so by rule N plus 3 everything will arrive. It is not up to us, therefore, that the procedure began only in 2017, so it was with the state... Because from the previous perspective we ended up before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96385	The next replica of the respected representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96386	A respected colleague, taught at the end of 2019 and the opening of the first competition, in which way you will implement projects, if there are cancellations of some projects or implementations in difficulties, and you plan for the realization, i.e. for the implementation of 80 million kuna in 2019. So what you're going to spend it on in 2019, you're going to book the funds, you're going to have a 5% execution again, it's a shame. The money is waiting for investors, waiting for education, you need curricula reform, you can't handle certain things from the national budget and from EU funds, Norway, the Kingdom gives you 103.4 million euros, but unfortunately very slow steps you go and you act very irresponsiblely, because you know there was a problem with the implementation of the projects in the previous period, so I also ask you to tell me that information, what was the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96387	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96388	Thank you very much for asking. I repeat, there was no delay because of us, the regulation was three years late and it was only in 2016 and '17. We couldn't do that. We work fast, we prepare ourselves parallelly, we work on, as they prepare, therefore, memoranda, so the final proposals of the Memorandum of Financial Mechanisms Act are done to minimise this difference, which we have lost, thanks to the delay of regulation. Of course it is big and important money, it is almost 800 million kn, which is available to the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, the interest is also the Republic of Croatia, and I believe the Kingdom of Norway, Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein that they spend in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96389	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96390	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, you've now said twice it's not up to us, so can you tell the Croatian public who it's up to? Who's he up to? So 2014. 2018 is 4 years, so where are we 2016, 2017, to whom is it, to which country? Well, then, who's got it all figured out? Is it Norway's fault, Iceland, Liechtenstein, that these messy administrations, and the Croatian administration, under the leadership of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, is very up-to-date and hastily and essentially slowed down our Lichtenstein. And Norway slowed us down and Iceland. So it's very likely, and according to what you said, it's the culprits who provide us with the funds, and our quick administration, which would absorb it, under Minister Gabrielo Zalac in a month, two days, simply can't. She just doesn't feel like it. So please tell us who did it, then? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96391	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96392	Thank you very much for asking. So, I repeat the guilt is not on the Republic of Croatia, it is guilty of delaying the regulatory framework in EU and donor countries. In this case it is Iceland, the Principality of Lichtenstein and the Kingdom of Norway, because they are not only in Croatia in this regard, but they have a total of 15 EU members in the same situation, as well as the Republic of Croatia, nothing happened but in other countries. Some countries have signed an agreement earlier than the Republic of Croatia, but in similar situations as the Republic of Croatia, but I say, by 2024, we will be able to do all of this, to the satisfaction of our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96393	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96394	The secretary of state is here, this is amazing to hear from Plenkovica administration, the expression of Euroscepticism, so here is not the fault of Iceland or Norway, it is the fault of the EU as a whole. But what I would like to stress here, that somewhere for 100 judicial bodies in the City of Zagreb, the Justice Department pays a monthly rent somewhere around 50,000 euros. I know that it went towards Minister Žalac, the Ministry of Justice even during Minister Šprlje, to go into the realization of these projects, with Norway, however, Gabriela Žalac hitched it all off, the Norwegians were very interested, e.g. to finance the completion of the Square of Justice in Selska, however, here, as colleagues before me have said, everything is late and there is the responsibility of the Croatian administration, and we are told by the State Secretary that the EU is responsible. This is amazing, I can't believe I like to put a little bit of our government closer to the EU, but here, we have amazing statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96395	Thank you for answering the respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96396	I appreciate the question. I haven't expressed my Euroscepticism in one single thought or word. I repeat, these negotiations, the negotiations were delayed, they lasted a long time, 3 years afterwards joined with 15 EU members, who are in a situation like Croatia. Definitely the situation is under control, we'll be able to do everything during this programming period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96397	And the last replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96398	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is necessary to say thank you to the Norwegian taxpayers, who here donate some of their funds to the development of justice and the rule of law in the Republic of Croatia. You see, they also recognized that we have a problem with the judiciary and that it is not the rule of law, but that we need to invest further. So my question is where these memoranda will be deposited, so that they don't disappear, the proposal is here from HSS to get safes, surveillance cameras, so that these contracts don't disappear, and then they couldn't even implement these projects, because apparently the people who run those institutions, the permits to disappear, can't even enforce the rule of law of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks again to the citizens of Norway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96399	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm sorry, sir. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96400	I thank you for asking, Your Honor. So in all countries where Norway is donating, and donates because it has to because it is not an EU member so that it has free trade and everything else that goes as an advantage of EU membership has also been insisted on the rule of law. So all 15 countries have to do in the area of law, or internal affairs, to make certain improvements, improvements and everything else. So we're not the only ones who are troubled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96401	Thank you very much. I see that colleague Chikotić has raised her hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96402	I would ask the chairman on behalf of the club for a 10-minute break to consult on the use of grants from the Norwegian mechanism, since the Secretary of State does not see anything controversial in the fact that only at the end of 2019 will he start calling the competition and plans 80 million kuna in execution in 2019. So the tender will only be negotiated and the funding plans, so we will again have a devastating execution, and we will also get to know the Croatian public about the use of general and the work of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds related to the weak and uncoordinated use of European funds and what is available to the Republic of Croatia, in this case 103.4m euros, and through other 10.7 billion euros funds that we use extremely weak. We boast in the media means this government to negotiate 52% of the resources available, but the execution shows devastating data. Thus, in the transport programme, only 56m euros were paid to users, and 65m euros were paid an advance. So at this point, according to the 2017 State Audit report, 31.12., we don't actually realize what we needed, and for this reason we want to because we don't have enough capacity. We see that other funds are also being charged, i.e. they are not being filled and investment is not being made in Croatia, given their slowness and pre-burocratisation, and we doubt that these funds will be used at all because we are late in other large funds with realisation. Implementation, over 2 years, is impossible to post in the amount of 103.4m euros and funds from the 2007 IP. '13. We lost over 100 million euros. The question is, what's going to happen to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96403	Thank you. Of course I'll give you 10 minutes, so I'll see you in 10.07 minutes. It's 09.57 hours. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.07 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and will be the first to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96405	Here we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the Implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014/2021. And as we have pooled these two points of daily work because they are approximately identical, except for the difference in some segments so agreed programs of realisation, i.e. financing and the amount of monetary donation, let's call it conditionally and so on for the implementation of these programmes. This second is therefore in agreement with the implementation of the EEA Financial Mechanism for the period 2014/2021. the years between Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia. It is important to say that this is the obligation of these countries, which we have now listed and which are part of this memorandum because they are members of the European Economic Area and are not members of the EU and their obligations are in total, I believe we have told about billions or half of them to finance certain programmes that are primarily agreed by the EU and then also members who receive money to implement these programmes. For all we know and for all that it is and for all that the EU has long negotiated with these countries that are members of the economic union but are not members of the EU. And it lasted from 2014 to 2017. We then entered into negotiations with those countries after the end of those negotiations and in 5 rounds of negotiations we came to this programme and this result where we received from the negotiated funds about 100 million, 104 million euros. So we couldn't get any more because there is a raster per population and per Member State that contracts these programmes. And so that's the maximum amount. I would not agree with this previous one, so in replicas, I would say so to the hells of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because really if the 5 rounds of negotiations from 2017 to 2018 managed to agree on the programmes, I think it is real because Croatia has not negotiated directly with the members from 2014 to today, but in these last year and without fear these programmes should be realised. What is important is to say that 338 million kunas were agreed with Norway for programmes defined in the negotiations and they are the Programme for Innovation of Education and Competitiveness for 22m euros, for the Local Development Programme, the reduction of poverty of a million euros, for the judiciary and internal affairs of 13m euros, for the social dialogue programme 466 000 euros, that is from the EEA programme and the EUR 25m reduction programme. The climate change energy programme 17m euros and the Civil Society Programme 8.5m euros. We must participate through these programmes in financial terms, so other than having control and programme holders for each of these programmes, we must participate in one part of the programme itself financially. From this Programme of Local Development with Norway, we are participating 4 million and 400 million euros, for energy and climate change 3 million euros and for civil society, i.e. the EEA programme and for civil society are not participating. While for the Norwegian program, it's also 15%. There are 176 million euros for local development, for innovation 150 thousand euros, etc., etc. So we have a very similar engagement of the Republic of Croatia budget as well as these fund stories from the Ministry itself. And in any case, this is not a donated story, but it is the obligation of these countries that are in the European economic space but are not EU members to participate, to participate in EU development, especially among the members who need to develop these programmes. In any case, the HDZ Club will support this final bill. And here we are congratulating the negotiators in this past period that has been and hopefully we will be able to negotiate and make absolute use of every euro in these programmes for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96406	Thank you very much. The next is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists on behalf of which Sonja Cikotic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96407	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. MOST of Independent Lists, of course, will support this proposal, we are very sorry that it did not come here earlier, we know what efforts are needed when it comes to negotiating, means but it is not the point of finding the culprit here but is the purpose of implementing these projects here and that 103.4m euros come to Croatian citizens, that schools are being restored, that judicial bodies are being ordered, that we are fighting poverty, that we are fighting some of the phenomena that are happening in terms of this generation of further causes of poverty that it is causing, and the purpose of that is that we actually have a picture of real in front of ourselves. In the club MOST, nothing means to us the fact that someone negotiated but whether or not that money will actually come to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and what will actually be done is that in 2 years we manage to do what we were supposed to do in 7 years. So, we warn that today 2018, October, and that new calls are expected only at the end of 2019 and the ministry was not planning to make an ambitious plan until 2019 to implement 80 million kunas in the budget. We have, we have not yet received an execution for 2018 in the Croatian Parliament, we have an extremely poor absorption in foreign European funds. The Ministry of Regional Development is not solely responsible for this Norwegian mechanism, it is actually responsible for all EU projects. and they have 10.7 billion euros at their disposal. That money is extremely weakly withdrawn, that money is extremely weak and difficult to get to the users, the procurement procedures take an extremely long time, as well as when we have the fact that on the State Commission for the Implementation of Procedures, means control of public procurement, we had the fact that there 39% of the total complaints, falls. So it's falling, so it's falling on it, so for certain reasons. So we don't have here, we're glad, again I'm telling the MOST club will support these two laws, without further ado, but we have here for local development and poverty reduction 25 million euros on hold. So that's 150 million kuna on hold and they say that, we'll call at the end of 2019 contests, 2019, and what if something goes wrong with implementation like it did with the Ciovski Bridge, then we'll hear about what, about the phase. You know what they say? What's a phase? So the phase is nothing more than the loss of money from the previous period of 2007-2013 and the transfer to a new financial period. We have today for the 2007-2013 program. 236m euros were available to us to withdraw, so we didn't have to pay the membership fee, and now that you look at the report we had on the board the other day, 192m euros were agreed. So we haven't been able to contract since 2007-2013, make it to 31. 12. 2016, 236 million euros, but we only contracted 192 million euros. So MSOT's independent lists since the same ministry manages the implementation capacity, in this case the Norwegian mechanism, 103.4m euros, we suspect that execution will not go well. Well, in the previous period, we also had a problem with four projects that were agreed on by the realisation itself. So when it's over in 2021, we can't negotiate new projects anymore. And if some projects are planned to be completed by 2025, we are planning nearly 80 million kuna executions in 2025. So if it's not a good execution, if any project comes into some kind of trouble, we won't be able to replace it with a new project. So that's what this is about. We need to make more money here than we bargained for in IPA, 126% to actually withdraw those 100% of the funds. What I want to say further, given that the same ministry is carrying out the implementation capacity, we have a traffic situation in 2014-2020, that it's only agreed to 31. 12. In 2017, 977m euros, and of these, users justified 54m euros, so they provided an account to the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU funds that went through them and were granted 65m euros. So we've made more available to the users of the funds, 65 million euros, and they've all justified 54 million euros and it's 977. So the deal doesn't mean realisation, after the contract, there are procurement procedures, and then there's only investment building after that. MOST's independent lists are extremely important that the money comes to the users, that it comes to citizens, that finally investments in Croatia start to happen, that we are actually fighting poverty, and that we have here I say 25m euros from one programme and a million euros from another, that innovation, that research, education and competitiveness are encouraged, and with 22m euros, so no one has come here to look for the culprit but only to give one real review in implementation, means after the agreement, we wait 2019, end of 2019, we will have only 2 years to agree and now it's actually showing that for the big programme 10.7 billion euros, we didn't, so we didn't contract in 4 years but 52%. Are we really going to be able to arrange 100% of allocation in two years, and I think, because, according to previous experiences, we've had that IPA contracted 12%? So we need to agree more to actually withdraw what, because we don't necessarily need the grants available through this mechanism, and through other European funds, to come to investments, to open construction sites, to improve the material conditions in schools, research laboratories, to actually invest in the Croatian judiciary and internal affairs of 13 million euros and to make investments, to bring us GDP growth, because the only thing that can do is new employment, new investments, and actually here. So we're at our disposal. What I'm saying is that we should definitely, we'll see when we plan the budget whether these figures will continue to be what you've presented here. So, in 2019, you're going to execute 80 million euros and in 2020 you're going to execute 120 million kunas, you're going to be executed in 2019. 80 million kuna, and in 2020. 115 million kuna, 20. So, right, so that's where we're going to see if we're able to absorb, if we have the implementing capacity to absorb what it means, we express the support of these two projects, we're very glad that the Republic of Croatia, we like that you've successfully negotiated. Here, after which it means, from 2014 to 2018, it means it is four years old. I am explicitly saying that we should move forward as soon as possible to call a tender because we are simply expressing our suspicion, justified, your current way of implementing European funds and the administrative procedures themselves and others that they will not be able to agree and implement it because after 2021 there is no more bargaining, if any project comes to the problem, the money is lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96408	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So at the very beginning, and I'll be very brief, I'll say that the SDP Club will support these two proposals because we see them primarily as a technical nature and as proposals for a law that will actually improve and make more funds available to us so that we can strategically strengthen both our science and our judiciary and invest fully in the Republic of Croatia to start the investment wheel and GDP growth. But what I will only touch briefly since it is partly about this topic is our withdrawal of funds from EU funds, although this is indicative of how we will use these financial mechanisms, I am afraid that we will not celebrate. So if you're looking at how much of the EU funds we've withdrawn and how much we could withdraw, the results are more than devastating and you can look at EU statistics, so there's no talking about any arbitrary data that either the ministry gives or I've invented than anything on the EC's pages. The sad fact is that because of the different administrative obstacles, we were unable to absorb as much EU funding as we could. This does not mean that we have paid more membership fees in the EU than we have managed to withdraw, but it is far from what and all the benefits we could have had were responsible, systematicly and plannedly withdrawing funds. I hope that we will avoid it in this financial structure, that institutions that will be responsible for the implementation and monitoring of these financial structures will be up to the job so that, as my colleague said before me, we can just start an investment cycle, and invest it in what is where and how we think Croatia needs the most. In any case, the SDP Representatives Club will support these two proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96410	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first came from a respected representative, Ranko Ostojic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Then came the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I would therefore conclude a debate on these two points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96411	The final proposal for a Memorandum of Understanding Act on the Consensus of the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014-2020 between the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia, second reading by P.Z. No. 427. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014-2020 between the Kingdom of Norway and the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 100 votes for the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96445	We will now move on to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters First reading, P.Z. No. 428. The proposer of this Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96446	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Facilitation and Elimination of the consequences of natural disasters in the first reading. As a global phenomenon, climate change has become one of the worst problems most countries in the world, including Europe. At global level, the frequency of natural disasters or disasters exceeds the extent of all the events recorded so far, and in recent times we have witnessed the result of various natural disasters where the dead and certain numbers are numbered thousands. Of course, as far as material damage is concerned, it is immeasurable. Just because of the more frequent, I'm sorry, I ran to get to the point, so I'm a little breathy. It is precisely because of the frequent natural disasters seen as extreme due to their intensity and frequency, most EU member states have approached preventive action with a view to reducing the damage caused. Of course, like other EU Member States and the Republic of Croatia, there are frequent natural disasters, sometimes disasters that are repeated several times within one year, which cause great damage to property with the rest. If you remember, this Monday we had damage in Dubrovnik, as far as the rain is concerned, as many as 250 liters of rain fell within 3 hours, and we saw only last year in Zadar County, unfortunately in 2014, we had a catastrophic flood, which hit the eastern part of Croatia without talking about last year's fires, which took place throughout Croatia, in terms of Dalmatia, almost killed the city of Split. All of the above, it is inevitable that the sequence of weather accidents present throughout Europe will take place. According to the results of climate modelling for the Republic of Croatia, a change in the whole series of climate parameters is expected in the future for the 2070 period, with the consequences of higher frequency and intensity of extreme weather events and natural and natural disasters. Fires, floods, floods, and other natural disasters have become a common problem, with which units of local self-government are not able to handle themselves, and damage to the property of the population, in areas affected by natural disasters, are extremely high and very difficult to compensate from the funds of the state budget, particularly if the damaged or destroyed property has not been secured. Therefore, this law, which is proposed, does not constitute the right of any damage to them, to be automatically applied to them, but is a regulation providing a certain type of assistance and which may also be humanitarian aid in certain segments. Currently, the issue of aid to threaten the partial removal of the consequences of natural disasters in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the applicable law, the protection of natural disasters, and the Protection and Rescue Act and the methodology for assessing the damages against natural disasters. In order to increase the efficiency of the system, and transparency of conduct, all bodies in charge of implementing the rules on protection against natural disasters, activities have been initiated with the aim of changing the system of aid for damage caused by natural disasters, which relate to the adoption of a better legislative framework. In this respect, in order to protect against natural disasters effectively, in addition to prevention, other measures should be taken to prevent the negative impact of natural disasters on property and on public infrastructure. The potentials imposed and due to large amounts of damage are further and more significant to the insurance of assets. Such measures must include the setting of normative rules, whether those programmes, which encourage insurance or prevention programmes, and then action in terms of the rescue of residents and property in the area of natural disaster. Due to the above circumstances, the government has recognised the necessity, better regulation of this area, and has joined the creation of this new law, with the aim of improving the current system of granting aid from the state budget, i.e. providing additional aid from EU funds, as well as donations. The adoption of the proposed laws would cease to apply the law on the mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters, which has been in force for more than 20 years and since '97, respectively. By the way, in the Republic of Croatia, the damages reported amounted to €1.55 billion at an annual level in billions of kunas, unfortunately, according to official data in 2016, of which there were as many as €1.47 billion in agriculture, in 2017 they rose almost double, the damage reported amounted to €3.49 billion, of which in agriculture 1.88 and other damages, unfortunately, increased dramatically and amounted to as much as €1.61 billion. It also points to the need to change the way we have done so far, since the current system of aid has obviously become unsustainable in the partial recovery of the damage caused by natural disasters. In the last 5 years, the damage reported caused by natural disasters totalled $12.14 billion, indicating the inability of the state, and mainly the unit of local, regional self-government to provide financial assistance for the purpose of the recovery of the damages suffered. This is reflected through the defeating figures, for example, the total amount of aid granted for the damage reported over the past 5 years is only €174 million, and this amount when we look at the one I mentioned earlier, of 12 or 14 billion, is essentially only 1.44%. Therefore, other than the funds of coke are provided in the positions of the state budget, otherwise the average so far was 20 million kuna per year, last year due to catastrophic fires, the budget position was at 100 million kuna. Each year, the Government shall, in addition to these measures, set out a second set of measures, which shall be assisted in areas affected by natural disasters. These measures include different types of assistance at local level, whether money, food, clothing or machinery, which is rarely attended by the Croatian military. When we talk to the public about natural disasters, we mostly refer to the damages in agriculture that they seek due to various actions, whether they are droughts, floods, frost, ice, etc. However, damage to natural disasters, which threaten life, property health and the economy in affected areas, in recent years, have, unfortunately, come from other forms, whether it is fires, floods, rinks, etc., causing enormous damage to property and natural and legal persons, as well as public infrastructure. The prevention of these damages in addition to more active roles of the central state and local level is demonstrated by necessity, and the reduction of the negative effects of natural disasters can be systematically resolved only by encouraging the insurance of assets from these adverse events, i.e., of course, insurance provided by cases. Unfortunately, so far, much of the assets have not been secured, so partial damage recoverys from limited sources of state budgets are insufficient to reduce the overall economic damage. Therefore, collateral is a long-term solution, which will ultimately contribute to a reduction in economic losses, mainly in this area. In this context, the state will seek more effectively to find solutions that would subsidise the insurance premium, i.e., the payment of insurance premiums, in order to reduce insurance costs, including sources from EU funds, which can be effectively stimulated by good... State aid from the relevant individual ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed amendments to the law contained in this proposal are accompanied by the establishment of the so-called It's a shame register. Namely, an important newspaper of this law is the establishment of a register of damages that will provide data by the name of any natural or legal person who has reported damage, type of damage and amount of damage. Such data are essentially the first and systematic database in the resulting damages from natural disasters. This will provide timely information on the types of damage in a given area that the other authorities of the state administration will also be able to benefit from, of course, taking into account the protection of personal data under the General Regulation of the Council of Europe, i.e. the GDP of the Regulation. Based on the criteria laid down for the up-to-date verification of the damage suffered by the Commissions, as well as the supervision of any irregularities by the competent authorities of the state administration, including the State Commission of the Croatian Parliament will seek to reduce potential manipulations in terms of the occurrence of damages and the giving of incorrect values in relation to property damage. The above should also affect the transparent presentation of all data and the fair distribution of funds for partial recovery of damages from natural disasters. The provisions of the proposed law also recognise specific circumstances that include, for example, the social status of damages, so that the principle of humanitarianism, i.e. solidarity, is respected in this work. Furthermore, this draft law also includes intensities related to the possibility of exercising or failing to exercise the right and is thus provided for in which cases it is not granted... and in part the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, for example, it is prescribed that these rights cannot be consummated to the damage to the property that is secured, which we have initially said is the urgency to provide the property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, for assets where direct or deliberate damage is caused, for example, that segment is defined within this law. In conclusion, this legislative proposal is one of the normative solutions which seeks to mitigate or reduce the negative consequences of natural disasters, since it is a very sensitive and unreal and existential issue that results from the action of natural disasters that we are convinced that during the first and second readings of this proposal in the Croatian Parliament, this law will in a constructive way consider other possible proposals that will further improve this proposed legislative solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96447	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras raised his hand, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96448	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96449	We want the replicas first, then. You'd probably like a break, wouldn't you? ... Okay, so we'll do the replicas first? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You got it. We've got plenty of them, so you're gonna have to hold out. He is the first respected representative of Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law stipulates that compensation for damages only applies to legalised buildings. Since the law on legalisation is still up to date, we know that we have a lot of facilities, especially agricultural, especially nursing households that haven't been able to legalize objects yet, or legalisation is still under way, I think this provision is quite rigid. And it would be wise to consider just because of situations like this, to exclude some nursing household or a complete part of that work that is still legalized to consider easing this article in such situations. Please comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96451	Dear Secretary of State, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96452	Thank you very much for asking. What you mentioned was indeed the subject of our internal debates and within the government, to find one measure called social or health or other, and in the context and unsecured objects, including objects built against the law, and in the process of legalisation, is something that still seems possible to us within the parliamentary debates and possibly to the amendments to governments, but in one way, to ensure the legality of further work in terms of whether or not this object will eventually get a legalisation solution, but indeed, the proposed draft law contains a provision in terms of social elements and health elements, so we thought that this part was appropriate at this time, and that we might consider that such a provision would be incorporated into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96453	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96454	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State concerning the elemental disasters of the issue I have received from the field, and I see that it has been discussed on the board as well, as regards Article 3 where all the natural disasters are listed, and it is proposed that some diseases of plants and animals, and especially what is important for Croatia, for the area of the Vine vine, is the spread of the disease of the Golden Yellow Vine vine which can cause immense catastrophic damage to our vineyards. Well, we believe that this should also be stated in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96455	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96456	Thank you very much for asking. Indeed, there is a wide range of those requirements that would be justified, conditionally justified, the meaning of the law was not to give an automatic right to any resulting damage to be consumed through the provisions of this law and refunded by the state, but to ensure that the property is secured. However, in addition to the same article, if you allow in paragraph 2, a provision under point 12 has been added which shows other phenomena of such scope which, depending on the local circumstances, cause urgent disturbances in the lives of people in a particular area. In this sense, the state commission in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament will surely valorise such demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96457	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96458	Thank you very much. Secretary, the damage to the natural disasters that have been caused is the fact that people have not been compensated, but they've been promised. We have an example in... When there was a fire last year in Split-Dalmatia County, the man was paid off, so I was in touch with him, 100% damage to his home where he lives, 21% of the state paid, 15% of the county and 15% of the city. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means solid. It means 50%, but by assessment, not real damage. So these people were eventually forgotten, and it wasn't their fault, which wasn't maintained, which wasn't the roads that were supposed to be maintained. So these people aren't the culprits. They were focused last year, but until today, these people were not paid for the damage. And so it's in agriculture, so it's in floods, so it's in the rink, so the state has to find the elements, to restore these people to their residence where they live.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96459	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96460	Thank you very much for asking. This part of you are certainly right, first of all, that in the prevention of damage, which this law also touches, in its particular part, is a necessary field of action and more action. For example, a series of floods that occurred without the treatment of canals or sewers and similar measures that should have been taken on local self-government units and sometimes the state, in terms of preventive action, were not done enough, so that they were not... from the consequences of a classic elemental accident, but also from negligence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96461	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96462	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you what our citizens are most interested in, and that is to convince them that by amending this law, finally and indemnity benefits will have a purpose. So far, we've had a lot of examples, by county and city, where when some elemental disaster has been declared, from time to time or anything else, that usually compensation is paid at 2-5% on average. So that's not enough, I would say, citizens, have no opportunity to repair their facilities, to refer certain things and what is expected of this law, to find solutions that would allow as much damage as possible, that is, that people really see the point in it. So there's none of it, if the roof takes him the storm and then gets a few thousand kunas, because the roof is worth a hundred thousand kunas, and that's what you're supposed to be proposing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96463	Thank you for answering the respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96464	Thank you very much. In practice so far, what you have stated has indeed been a daily experience, that we have had an exceptional number of requests that have been allocated to money, which are foreseen in the state budget, I mentioned earlier that it was 20 million kuna and that you have 20 million kuna if the damages were almost 3.5 billion. The idea was and there it was incorporated into the law, that the part of the claim was eliminated, through the amount of damage suffered, and it was installed in a way that predicted that the damage must be at least 60% of the value of the property that was damaged. And secondly, what we have pointed out, this law does not apply exclusively to agricultural damage, so only to determine the 50% ratio for agricultural damage and possibly further to legitimate claims 20% and the rest, the budget money, or, from other sources, in this case the sources of EU funds, sometimes from donations, to be distributed to other damages, means to reduce the number of claims that would be... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96465	Thank you. The next replica is Honored Representative Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96466	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary, we have one law that is not paper-sized, but the topics concerned are truly broad and horizontal, through several ministries and vertically from the state to the local self-government unit. What I'm interested in right now, and you're a representative of the Ministry of Finance, as you look at the fact, so you're talking about 5 years and when you're looking at the ratio between reported damage and paid, that's about 70, that ratio. How do you think this law will encourage the provision of property, and how it will ensure, where it will react to how much premium there will actually be. In a very large proportion of what is desired and what is actually caused by what is currently possible from the state budget, but how many premiums will be and how much are actually possible, how many countries will be able to subsidise these premiums. We have a hunting ground, where people, where hunters are faced with very high premiums in ensuring these crops.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96467	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96468	Thank you very much. It's a great question, basically, of ideas and what's going through the whole law, that people are being offered to secure their facilities. Of course, the amount of premium will depend on the level of risk of such damage resulting. A couple of insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia, otherwise there are all the insurance and so are these risks that we mentioned today. That is exactly what the idea is, that the state through European funds and that is what I have initially commented on the subsidy, i.e. co-financed the premium. And it will be much easier to co-finance a premium that is 50,000 kn, for example in terms of risk premiums, than the damage that has been done, for example, 5 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96469	Thank you for the next replica, the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96470	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, here I am, coming from the city itself, which has been in recent years, exposed to floods and damages were huge. What I have to say is that this idea, the insurance, the greater the security of objects, is the only possible solution, because the state can't solve these damages from budget funds, but I warn the problem, that what today is a risky area, wasn't the moment 30 years ago when people were building, things changed on the ground. Surely there's a lot of work to do on prevention, to prevent the consequences of damage, especially when it's floods, means a flood defense measure, but I also have to say that there are situations today, where even a high-risk insurance company, are not at all inclined to enter the security facility. I also think that we should take great care of the formula of the assessment, so that these are clear criteria, so that everyone has equal conditions, or that all damages are equally underestimating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96471	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96472	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, you've just brought out something that's been holding us back for years in this segment, the resulting damage as a consequence of elemental disasters, or as a consequence of not maintaining the system on the ground, which, in turn, has caused damage. I personally know that some Danube countries for some kind of insurance, and we mentioned earlier whether it is possible for us to do so through some other regulations tomorrow, introduced mandatory insurance on such matters, so clearly that these premiums, as a colleague pointed out earlier, will be more pronounced because no insurance company will provide anything that is not secure. But subsidies from the state will certainly contribute to the implementation of this type of insurance. Of course, it does not necessarily mean that it should be dealt with in another way rather than within this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96473	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96474	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So here are the states every year reducing the amounts in the budget for damages from elementary disasters. We see that insurance is recommended, given that the banks have been handed over in foreign hands and insurance is also like the oldest insurance house in Croatia either privatised or in foreign hands, and from this I see that we are again pushing water on someone's mill. To recommend insurance, the state will subsidise and re-pay some people who master insurance houses that will slowly raise premiums. And I know from personal experience that the security of the house was and a certain amount, now he's doubled. And I think that the state has caused a lot of damage from the elemental disasters especially floods with poor water management, embezzlements, so it causes damage, reduces damage amounts, and now it should still be given to insurance companies to secure us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96475	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96476	Thank you very much. Well, everywhere in the world, the insurance model is something that's an appropriate way to protect your own property. And the damage ratio that took place, just before I said it was almost 3.5 billion compared to the insurance premium, certainly won't be anywhere near it. Which means that the risk is transferred to the insurance company and, if the damage occurs, there will be much less expenditure on the budget than on these grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96477	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96478	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State,... The damages were about 3.5 billion, and they were certainly much larger because people simply do not report damage to their property, on their agricultural surfaces because of these low fees they have lost trust and will to report anything about it at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, you won't be able to form a quality register because you don't have an orderly state of the grantovnica, a catastra with a condition on the freighter and the State Geodetic Administration has given up on that co-financing model of the state with units of local self-government. This should again be encouraged to address the situation so that they can have quality records of damage to property and to agricultural cultures. And what I suggest to you is to extend this eight-day period of damage from the occurrence of the damage because it is too short a time period, people are on a journey, on a yearly basis, so they don't arrive in those 8 days to report damages and I think it should certainly change and work on the education of people because the countries that invest in education are more developed countries, so here we invest in science, invest in teachers and congratulate the International Teachers' Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96479	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96480	Thank you very much, all suggestions are really good compared to the deadline, and we will consider it only to be appreciated, noting that this deadline is running from the moment of the damage, but not from the moment of the publication of the elemental accident. So people who have suffered damage can really have a month of space before it gets published or less, I don't know. But we're allowing eight days to be sufficiently inappropriate, so we'll think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96481	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96482	So this law regulates actually a very wide area and it's impossible to put it into one law. At the same time, however, certain natural disasters occur for the reason that we simply entered places where we had never lived. And let's say you take that stream of Sava, where the old houses were built, none of them will be flooded. So we've built places where it's never lived and that's it. But at the same time when we talk about the budget and when we talk about taxes, then we all yell about how high taxes are, and today everyone would put 3.4 billion in the budget to compensate for the damages of natural disasters. However, as 15 years ago, it was not believed that this system of protection of the agriculture of elementary disasters would be established so that certain institutions and la hrvatska water instead of giving a great deal of money to support the like areas might need to make some kind of fund with insurance companies to pay off tomorrow possible flood damage and a series of such things. And that might be some kind of solution to the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96483	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96484	I thank the honourable representative. Indeed, all that stands out is a common solution that we have also presented in the opening statement to both the first and second readings and we expect a constructive debate and to find the best solution for both those who have suffered material damage and for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96485	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Club, colleague Maras has requested a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We asked for a break to consult on this very important topic, meaning 3.5 billion kuna the cost of our citizens each year and Minister Zdravko Marić is not in the Croatian Parliament. It doesn't matter to him, he doesn't care, but when Ivica Todorovic calls to come to Zdravko then rides by car to the House of Sports, parks the car, picks up a secret driver, and is located in a secret location as if he's selling suit from the bartenders and not as if he's the minister of finance of the Republic of Croatia. A scandalous situation, a scandalous situation that shows what phase our government is in and how our government reacts to certain problems. When it comes to hundreds and thousands of Croatian citizens, 3.5 billion kuna costs per year from natural disasters are not coming to the Croatian Parliament, there is no Minister Zdravko Marić, but when Ivica Todorovic calls, when he invites the former boss he paid very well in Agrokor for years, then he secretly comes to the location where Ivica Todorovic says he is. And I beg you, don't do that anymore, take care of what you're here for. You're not here for the tycoon, and you're not here to fool around and do some business in secret locations, you're here for Croatian citizens, and that's why Mr. Vice President, we need to consult and we need to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96487	Thank you very much. Of course I'll give you a break so you can consult on the mitigation, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters, and I'll see you in 11, 07 minutes. It's 10:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.07 HOURS]] Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'll wait for the president to come and say a few words about... I can also tell you respected MPs and MPs that on the occasion of the day of independence in the Croatian Parliament on Monday 8 October the day of the open doors will be held and the Parliament will be open for citizens' visits, so please remove your belongings from the parliamentary benches. We'll do that again in the end to remind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96489	Now I'd like to ask the committee's rapporteur if they'd take the floor? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The first is the respected counterpart Josip Križanic, the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96490	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Proposal for a Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. The bill proposes to help with damages to the register of damages, and the aid will be granted depending on the type, the amount of property damaged from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and can also be allocated from EU funds. The establishment and register of damages which will provide information on the name of any natural and legal person who has reported damage, the type of damage, the amount of damage and such data constitute the first database of the damage caused by natural disasters. The methodology for assessing damages from the elemental accidents of the general section, all points except points 1 and 2 of this Act, shall become an integral part of this Act in order to make it more clear to the adoption of a new Regulation. Mr. Secretary of State, the law itself will not be operational and quality until we bring in a new methodology. There are a lot of things that need to be changed in the meantime. This Law will need to regulate other developments, e.g. the prevention of floods, and the adoption of some new laws and regulations that will prepare that prevention. We had one thematic session two and three months ago in this House on the initiative of the Committee on Agriculture and the Commission on Essential Accidents. The sitting was on the subject of regulation of riverbeds, which is directly related to this topic where the riverbeds rise due to the accumulation of sand and gravel, and then we raise the walls from the side. One reason is Natura 2000, which also applies to neighbouring countries. There's been a lot of controversy, and I'd like to say two or three sentences about it. So, it's not normal for a river of Kupa that has, which is full of sand to bring sandbags of 200 km for the defence of the Kupa River, and do not let that sand be removed from it and put on bedsides. It is also not normal for the Sava and Drava rivers, on the one hand, to have Hungary, on the other hand, on the other hand, it is removed sand and then that sand is sold for billions in the Republic of Croatia and builds corridor C5, and we stick to Nature in 2000 and we don't do that. The question is whether it is greater damage when the flood occurs and it devastates everything in front of it or is a greater shame that several habitats of certain plants or animals will be destroyed when sand is extracted and waterway insurance is provided. These were some guidelines that we would surely have to take care of in the prevention of floods. Further changes will be needed in methodology, for example in the old methodology there is a development when we talk about roads to state, county and municipal. The commissioners, for example, reported damages on unclassified and local roads. When the damages were paid, there was often no one to pay, if we know that along the state, county and non-classified roads there are local roads that fall under the authority... So we're going to have to work this out precisely in this new methodology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Often, the Commission also had problems with the full certainty of making decisions on the price list of agricultural and livestock products and prices for domestic animals, potential subject-matter. For example, here's how MPs know what I'm talking about, the price of a kilo of geese or geese meat of 40, 50 kuna, on the other hand, is offered, the price of a turkey 7 kuna. We all know the turkey's four pounds. Four times five times seven, 30 kuna, and a turkey costs 100 kuna or 150. So these were illogicalities that we would have to change in the future to be transparent. And the same thing was with the price of cereal and the price of fruit and vegetables. In the future, it would be good for such assessments to bring unique class prices at the beginning of the year, and the proposal made by the Ministry of Agriculture, and that it is used by any source... or the State Bureau of Statistics or more of them to take the average price, but in any case we'll have to be more accurate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The bill would exclude damages that provided their property, which is an intensities aimed at a greater conscience of any natural and legal person on the importance of the insurance of property. It is prescribed that the compensation for damages should only apply to legalised buildings or to those which have been decided on by law under specific rules. We've already talked about it, I've talked about it in my question to you, so since legalization itself, the law itself is still in force, legalization is still present. For example, in rural areas, we have a lot of buildings that aren't functional, and they're built. So these people would be forced then if they weren't legalized, and the barns would be torn down, pigs, stables. I think that we should find a way to exempt such situations from the inability to compensate, especially because it's someone's property. It's not a man's fault if something happens, if we're talking about old people or especially in situations where that legalization isn't over yet. The competence of the State Commission would limit the grant of aid for partial recovery of agricultural damage to up to 50% of the total planned funding for the current year. It can increase to 70%, while predicting the possibility that each of the competent authorities can bring in funds to help partially resolve the damage from their jurisdiction. And when we talk about serious agricultural production, then there is no serious agricultural production without insurance and these and the elemental disasters have to go into business risk. I do not agree here with my colleagues from HSS who believe that it is imputed to certain insurance companies, anyone can provide wherever they want, but it would be a shame not to take advantage of this current situation that we have when we have the opportunity to get as much as 75 000 euros per household or by a legal and physical person to co-finance the insurance of agricultural products, whether agricultural or livestock and co-financing can be obtained up to 70%. There, no one is defending, including the county, the local self-government units and leaving some small percentage to that small farmer, and I don't think there's any reason we should be talking through a year or two or three at all about the damages that are from the agriculture sector. Therefore, this law should reverse the agricultural damage to insurance. The procedures of the competent authorities in the event of damage and the tasks of the commission and the obligation to function from the assessment of the damages to data entry in the register shall also be regulated and the criteria preceding the cooperation of all involved shall be laid down. It is good to prescribe the responsibility of mayors and mayors for the purpose of using the aid allocations and to address the responsibilities of municipal and urban, county committees to implement measures to assess the removal of the consequences of natural disasters. It is good that this law has been prescribed because so often it has happened that municipal, city, and then county commissions have confirmed that the damages have been tremendously inflated. No one has ever answered, no one has ever been responsible and it is good to determine certain responsibilities. This could happen now because it is prescribed that the value on non-insured assets should not be less than 60%. It's going to happen now because the estimates will always go to more than 60%, it's very likely so. In order to implement this law, it is necessary to provide State budget funds for compensation activities for damage caused by elemental disasters, we have 20 million kuna, for the Register damage 400 000 and for the work of the Committee of State Commission 80 000 kuna. That's where I need to say two sentences as chairman of the commission, which I don't think was right so far. We, as a state commission, have almost never gone out on the ground for the reason that no funds were provided for diaries, travel expenses, transportation or drivers and representatives have no right to anything, so MPs can only go at their own expense to check certain situations, certain situations that have been assessed by the municipal or county commission, there should be a law to provide that such logbooks or travel expenses are intended for all members of the commission designated by the President of the Commission that in certain situations we can go on the ground and not only work stationaryly in the office. It is good that this law stipulates that the commission gives the Croatian Parliament an annual report on the final assessment of the damage, it is good that the commission is increased from 10 to 14 members and strengthened with representatives of the Ministry of Economy, environmental protection, sea, transport, infrastructure, that's good. On the other hand, I believe that representatives of the HGK and the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture should be left behind, therefore, representatives of producers. The criteria for the selection of expert committees providing professional assistance to municipalities and cities should be clearly laid down. Finally, it is very important to prescribe in detail procedures, forms and registers so that any subsequent interventions in the system are disabled and that everything is as transparent as we often have complaints that then delay the execution and confirmation of damage to the state commission. In principle, this law is going in the right direction and until the second reading we will improve it and work it out and then the regulations and methodology and the HDZ Club will support it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96491	Thank you. Now let's go to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, two MPs will speak, the first is the esteemed colleague of Bulj and after him, colleague Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96492	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The damages from the elemental accident are our daily life, whether winter or summer, we see it by statistical indications that tens of times the damage reported from year to year. The fact is that when we talk about the damages of any fires, any floods, any slides, any other elemental accidents that are very important prevention, all the ministries need to do so, means all the bodies of local, regional self-government and vertical states and, horizontally, all the institutions from the local committee to the ministries. Simply to reduce these costs and to prevent, to reduce the possibility of huge elemental disasters, it is impossible to imagine this without the Ministry of Construction, simply here, colleague Shuker J mentioned earlier, the problem is that we are building houses where simply for centuries floods are already that the planning system is not good, that simple and local and regional and state, means we are using our space badly, we are doing houses, housing, business facilities where we shouldn't. So you just have to include all the ministries. The fact is that when we talk about insurance yes, insurance is good but here I'm going to tell you an example from my neighborhood and probably in another, how will farmers in the Sinj field provide some of the drought if we have the river Cetina and we don't have a irrigation system? So we need to include the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Waters to solve these problems, so that we have a irrigation system because the only thing that works right now and the most that works is ambrosia due to the unseriousness, mainly because of the construction of the water supply dam of Peru and the lake, we have oscillations so that even outside of the elemental disasters, rain, due to large and so rainy rainfalls. We have a problem and regional development of the ministry, we have a problem that surely in winter are not the same costs somewhere in the Gorski kotar or somewhere else. There are simply few inhabitants, large areas and after snow we have major municipal damage to the infrastructure. It's huge money for these local self-governments, so people move out because they're underdeveloped. Last year I even went after, I had a press station where just these local self-governments don't have the ability to pay for it, so it was kind of behind a 10 million kuna contest, but it wasn't systematically solved. It can't happen that we don't know how to estimate if it burns in a house fire, living space to assess what 50% of the real value is, we have this problem behind the fires in Split-Dalmatia County, it's a huge problem. So the estimates aren't realistic with this real damage and in the end I have an example, the man only got 21% of the estimated damage that isn't real, it's the only real estate, 15 gave him county percent, 15 states, it's real damage even 30%. I've been with this man, I'm going to go talk to him myself, I'm going to see these problems, we've got three such cases after the fire, I'm talking about homes where people have the only real estate. Here we see the data, colleague Maras mentioned earlier, we see in 2013 total damages were reported at 406 million kuna, and immediately next year when the flood in Gunja was 10 times, i.e. 17 times 4 billion and 642 million kunas were reported damages due to floods in Gunja where we saw the incompetence of the Croatian state as institutions that did not respond in time where people were in trouble. Which means we need to see how much we've paid for those damages. At that time, 0.76% was paid, and in 2015 0%, the damage was also slightly less, but it was 2 billion, it was simply not a matter of power, a colleague... 0% paid from the damages reported in 2015. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is now slightly rising, I have given the amendment due to the elemental disasters here to give half a billion kuna to ease the units of local self-government and counties to decentralise these funds towards the Split-Dalmatia County, unfortunately not accepted because the damages were caused by people's not guilty, but by the guilt of the system. If the fire path is not cleaned or if it is not passing in the pine tree, it is not a problem for those people who have their houses near those forests. They're settlements like the Antwins, that's the part, they're not new settlements where the planks can't be, you can't set up a river to plan a settlement, of course you expect a flood if you've been flooded for centuries, I agree. So all the ministries, regional development, the Ministry of Finance, there needs to be one whole team around the elemental disasters, you need to see the possibility of insurance in which it works so that there are no favors to certain insurance houses, and you need to prevent it, to try legally so as not to create a new tycoon and monopoly over insurance as we have examples in the vehicle centre, where we have a simple monopoly over that activity, registration and other costs. I therefore believe that these laws are in the first reading, that this is not a question for the government of one, the other, the third, but simply a system that does not work. So we need more to connect all the bodies, I said and vertically than the local self-government and horizontally from the local committee of examples when the fire starts somewhere in the woods, if the local board is well organized fire-fighting, if there is... If there are basic conditions, a group of people will stop it, it's first aid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't have a big pine forest, then even the canadists can't stop it anymore, it's simply a whole process of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Police, the firemen, so that's what the goal is. And as for the elemental damages, we need to allow the farmer to deal with production, first of all with a system of irrigation that is not available, then ensure that no one will deal with agricultural production anymore, and we see that in fact the greatest damages are from agriculture. And once again if you can at the ministry check what happens to the damages that occurred in the fires in Split-Dalmatia County last year because here's only the state paid 21% of the people who stayed, we don't have a lot of those cases, we have in the Antvinjci and three other cases, I know about this one, but I'm saying they have two more to pay off the damages because people don't have anywhere to live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96493	I would now ask my colleague, Sagar, to continue the presentation on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96494	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, I'm going to try in this time that's left just to say two, three important things that seem a little bit in this law, I'm not going to say controversial, but I'm going to say overstretched. The first thing that enters the eyes here is the intention of this law to limit resources, to grant aid for partial recovery of agricultural damage to 50%. Since I come from the agricultural area, it is not my intention to sit well, I do not trust farmers either, but if it has already gone to 50% it may have been necessary to stay or enter a provision that can't be less than 50% because, as the promoter says, they are expected, given climate change, everything that happens is expected to be growing, the reduction of funds that could go to recovery in agriculture to 50% is certainly not welcome, especially in areas dealing with agriculture. The same thing that falls into the eyes of the very introduction of this Law, the proposer says, the intention of this Law in part when it comes to the need to secure property, in that part to stress the need to provide more property, which would ultimately have positive effects on the economy. However, in the last part of this matter where determined effects are analysed, early effects, this sentence comes from the Ministry, this proposal does not affect economic growth or employment, as does not contribute to the inflow of investments. I think it's a little bit of a conflict, but the key question is whether insurance houses will be interested in providing these forms of property or if they want to be, and how much premiums will be made. A colleague, Križanić, said on behalf of the HDZ Club once, let's say such an optimistic claim that they could withdraw funds and that would be good. However, it seems to me that it is still on a long stick and I am afraid that the basic intensity of this Law, which is that more assets will not be realised and that we will not get the desired effect and will actually remain everything in the old. There will be a lot of reports, a lot of damage, and a little help because as the Law is called, it serves to mitigate the consequences of elementary disasters, and certainly not for full damage. The second remark applies, and counterpart Križanic said in the replica, so it is prescribed that the damage compensation should apply only to legalised buildings, which are subject to a rule of law. The proposal is being built here, says it is done for a reason because it may happen that in the process of some building they do not get a solution, that they are not legalised, that the solution may be rejected. But I really don't know if you're in cooperation with the Department of Construction, if you've come to this knowledge of the extent of these buildings. I think, as a rule, that first wave when the buildings that really had no footholds in the law were removed, that it was settled. Here, I don't have that information, I don't know if you have it, and I think that this fear isn't good, and I don't need to limit it that way because if someone is already in the process, the assumption is that most of these objects will be legalized, so it shouldn't limit it so that people can't get cover in compensation, and especially when they're at such a stage, when citizens are the most threatened, when their property is threatened, and especially that's the house. What I think is kind of the same question, Art. 29, which states when it refers to the final assessment of the damage, in Article 2, it is stated that for damages to assets for which no single price is prescribed, valid market prices are used. It's a little bit of a problem with these market prices, given that the Republic of Croatia, that the Republic of Croatia cannot be seen as a unique territory and to say it picturesquely, sometimes it seems to me that the stone in Dalmatia is worth more than the entire house in Slavonia. If the accident takes the roof to Dalmatia or the roof in Slavonia, in Slavonia we will put a log of the continental, in Dalmatia Mediterranean, there we will also give it a saraft, but these prices must be related to the price of the material somehow. I don't know how it's handled so far. I have to apologize here, but if the assessment is based on market value, it won't be good because the market value in the territory of the Republic of Croatia is not the same, and the house is the house. The roof should be made on one and the other house. I think that, of course, here, a series of sublegal acts are predicted, and I think that's what needs to be taken care of. And finally, what's quite certain is that the greatest burden falls on local self-government units. Someone in the public hearing mentioned that it was not good to have everything tied up at the moment of the announcement of a natural disaster. More important is the date of the start of the elemental accident than the declaration because from the beginning to the declaration it can take several days, perhaps weeks, perhaps even more and I think even there in the articles it says that the damage can be reported from the moment of the declaration. Why not prepare people for applications and damages themselves, because at that point it may be done more precisely. I don't know if this comment from the public debate has been respected, and here I call again on the Proposer to take that remark into account, so the crucial moment of the event is the moment of the elemental accident, yes, he does. Well, that's good, then. And finally, the Commission, starting from municipal to city, to state commission, has a very serious job. Here is the appointment of the expert commission which is welcome because it really is one job that you see here and financially very much to say betrayed, but in the end there are small funds that people get for compensation, so often it happens that anger is directed towards the members of the commission. In that sense, I think that people in the committees should also get a certain statistic. Here are some bills, which I primarily think about those closest to farmers or people who are damaged, municipal, city commissions, and I think that's where I need to see these people doing that job... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96495	Thank you. We're going to the HNS Representatives' Club now. Dear colleague Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96496	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I'll start from the last article, the last pardon, 45. So, the Law on the Protection of Essential Accidents ceases to apply, and today the proposal for a Law is in front of us in the first reading on the mitigation and removal of the consequences of natural disasters. Now we could conclude perhaps wrongly that it is a whole new law or this is the continuity of a law that ceases to apply. Because natural disasters and natural disasters are not the same. There are touch points, there are accidents that can be considered elemental and that can be considered natural. Well, here, I'll try through the debate and some of the dilemmas we have at the HNS Club, I'll try, I'll focus everything on the article. 3. that defines natural disasters and what they are. It is very well mentioned here, the earthquake, the storm, the fire, the flood, the drought, etc., there is also an extremely high height of snow, gliding and other phenomena of such magnitude, which, depending on the local scope, are caused by disturbances in the lives of people in a particular area. There are elements of the previous law in this law, which was adopted in 2004 on elemental disasters, however, what I believe and I will try to explain why we at the HSN Club believe that we should materially complete, enrich and make a very clear and precise attempt to define and give an answer. In fact, we had negative and bad experiences, firstly it was still a fresh flood in Vukovar Srijem County, where the government passed the law following the events. The law on the resolution of the consequences of the disaster in the area of Vukovar Srijem County. We have shortly thereafter, the appearance of a large glider, which fortunately had no human casualties, such as those in the flood, however, has done enormous material damage. We don't have, but through this law, which you're proposing today, I don't see a framework for acting, as far as these natural disasters I was talking about in the perspective. It is very clear in the description, so in that opening explanation, you refer to climate modeling by 2070 and it is said that changes in the entire series of climate parameters are expected in the future, resulting in higher frequency, intensity, external, weather and climate delays, resulting in natural disasters. However, you also find implementation of adaptation measures, for climate change, would significantly reduce impact, of course we are aware of that through a series of laws that are tangling, that or similar areas, we especially at the HNS Club have put the accent on that. Not to say from spatial plans, in this law, corner. Agriculture was discussed, which I can fully understand, outdoor production, there is the possibility of insurance or prevention of certain occurrences of natural disasters, however, I believe is too little, covered by other natural disasters. In particular, here I will begin with an example of the rink, we bear witness to what was not long, and also in continuity, for many years, not to say decade, north of Croatia, take the municipality of Bednja, Krapina Zagorje County, Varazdin County, part of Međimurje County, where it is cornered. The lost, mostly public infrastructure. And there are no elements, according to this law, to declare a elemental disaster, and family houses are threatened, and of course, that citizens expect if anything else, to at least make them available. Independently, it is an unclassified road in the jurisdiction of local self-government units, the county road, fortunately, the state roads are passing because they are not so much. We didn't give an answer. Furthermore, a fire is mentioned. It's evil. But what about those fires, if we're talking about natural disasters, means that the fire was caused by a biological factor, and what if it was a arson, which also has elements of disaster, but it's not a natural disaster, in terms of cause. That's what you predicted here in this article, the pity of extreme negligence. What are the actions under these circumstances, we need to save the property, we need to help people, and we need to prevent further spread of the debt of damage. As for the slide, I also said, we don't have an answer. Who's going to act. Namely, what I think is missing, and I say, is visible from past experiences, is not a proper way of doing, I will use the words of the law, easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters. This law does not give that framework. He is a follower of that former law, now, or a bill on mitigation and remove from the name of removing the consequences of natural disasters, because the removal is not defined by any substance in this law. Or what my proposal is, the HNS Club's proposal to supplement, prescribe, base, regrettably, bad experiences so far and on floods and slides, the way and conduct of state bodies in such situations. Hypothetically, I'm not calling and don't let God cause an earthquake, based on this law, I'm afraid there's nothing we can do. And there's no reason not to put a very clear framework into that law, or I'm sorry if I'm good enough and I'm not good enough to read it. What I also understand, too, were criticisms, on financial, available funds, which are foreseen by the budget, I would be like all of you here, all of you in Croatia, the happiest that no kuna should be spent. So we don't have any elemental accidents and it's very difficult to project. It is very difficult to project and therefore I am saying that it should define how it should be done because, of course, neither can the Ministry of Finance, which is normally the holder of this law, in practice, in implementation, in mitigation, in removal, it will exclusively be a financial obligor of that, and unfortunately in the operational part, I do not think so. They simply don't have the resources or the staff to do it. So I suggest you think about it until the second reading, there's space, there's opportunities, I believe you have certain suggestions, you should especially, whether it's adding a new head or through certain articles, supplementing and supplementing it. Namely, why am I saying that? Very precisely prescribed are specific, I don't know the final assessment, the method of calculating the final. So is that supposed to be in the law, or is that prescribed enough? So the law has the elements of a sublegal act, and what's extremely important to us at the HNS club, I was talking about it, maybe we shouldn't even be so precise about it. I'd like to use that dilemma to tell me if it's necessary or not. Furthermore, you stuck to that sprawl, so a natural disaster can be declared if the total direct damage is 20% of the original income of local self-government units. I'd like to think about whether, how realistic, that kind of calculation is. What does 20% mean? In particular, if the income of some JLS is reversed 20 million kuna, it means it will be declared, if it is, let's say 4 million kuna. Or if nature is, gender is down 30% of the previous average of three years, etc. So I'm saying, it's always been like that, if that's when my colleague Shucker, but I'm asking you, the epicenter of the earthquake is I don't know where. What's the damage? Could we, because this was worth it and was used in practice for damage to agricultural cultures. Whether or not thinking, because agriculture is the focus of everyone. No, I'm sorry if someone might have talked about other natural disasters, why we have programmes in agriculture, we have great availability, the possibility of using European funds, that perhaps agriculture in a special head is processed independently of other natural disasters, purely to think. Drought, yes. It's something that's very difficult to predict. Fight, freezing rain, too. But let us also not forget that it was once an anti-urban defense, it is no longer present. There is also a possibility of crop insurance for certain agricultural cultures of the network that are being installed, which are being subsidized. We need to make it very clear, perhaps not this law, but it's primarily about agriculture itself, which is agriculture production and with all due respect, which is a hobby. Which is a hobby. Just for the reason that a hobby can be reported, I don't know, vineyard, garden, for the elemental accident or exclusively serious agricultural production means which one is existential to someone. In this regard, this production depends on the existence or family or more. High snow heights, what does that mean in practice? Is that, and that's the kind of situation we've had, especially these years, I've known certain settlements. On average, there was less snow in the Gorski Kotar last year than in some northern areas. I mean, I agree with the approach, but I'm saying I think it could be done, it should be done. If we accept the title of this law, I will read, the proposal for a law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and Article 3 which defines what natural disasters are. Therefore, the proposal of the HNS Club is to supplement this law by the second reading to make it very clear that a better quality framework is being defined and that an appropriate way of handling the consequences of or removing the consequences of natural disasters is prescribed and that the responsibilities of other ministries are more precisely defined. Likewise, he would like to be related to this very law and climate change particularly to local self-government leaders and regional through the development of spatial plans to pay attention because the fact is and it was said here in the debate, Gunja, whether the spatial plan should have provided for the possibility, whether on certain terrains which are just questionable whether they can be construction where the slides appear, means spatial plans, I think that so far there has not been or perhaps not sufficiently seen problem, the main key problem is in spatial planning documentation regarding preventing or preventing certain damages in such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96497	Let's move on. Now it's the GLAS and HSU advocates' club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96498	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate and respected colleague and colleague. In our first reading, the Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters is before us. From this pay phone on several occasions, it has been said and it really needs to be stated every time, and every time we point out, climate change is a fact. There are respected statesmen like Mr Trump who claim that climate change does not exist, and then nature defussssssssssssss it. Climate change is a fact, Europe and this century the world will deal with the consequences of climate change and the consequences of everything that man has actually done with nature. Nature brings it back to him this way. Likewise, climate change is also a fact in the Republic of Croatia. What this Law should look at in one segment, you always have the possibility of action that can be interdisciplinary and can be individual. This Law is an individual element, this Law is not, or the proposal of this Law in the first reading did not arise as an interdisciplinary action of a series of resolutions and that it then offers some strategies, methodologies and ways to act. This Law warns of the fact that, in all its other laws, strategies and action plans, the Republic of Croatia should also take care to ensure that its action which, of course, is a small segment, but should be taken into account, that it has minimal impact on climate change, one of the important things is the problem of waste. So the waste of CO2 produced is something that really affects climate change and that's what affects us. And now you have, of course, as I said about methodology, you could decide to make a comprehensive law in which a comprehensive law will be prescribed by a series of procedures. A procedure to manage the ministries, how the government will make decisions at the time of the disaster. And we have a chance of disaster and in a fresh situation to see what it was like. One of the great disasters was in the area... The flood was indeed a scale that was inconspicuous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not until the end of climate change, it was also the result of a series of things that were also in neighbouring areas, especially when I think of neighbouring BIH who at that moment released a large level of water from their hydro power plants and then the state could make a decision, close their eyes on it together or not close their eyes. People were killed there, and people were killed, and the result was people who didn't die, who weren't with us anymore. I usually think that maybe one law at the level of what and how to act and who does in those moments is needed. However, this Law is not so conceived, and somehow we need to focus on it. This Law has a number of elements about how committees act. And two things to read from this law and to be taken into account, which are property insurance and it's a register. There is, therefore, one Law on national spatial data infrastructure that says that all data collected should be recorded in one place and should be used to draw up spatial plans. There's also a register of damages here. So, this register of damages that will be recorded, and you can see that the Ministry of Finance is the one who proposes this law, so it's not the Ministry of Interior, or anyone else, or a series of ministries, but the Ministry of Finance. The damage register is extremely important. It is important for the reason that you can see how often some damage is repeated, that these registers damage in the spatial planning system can be shown graphically in areas that are more flooded than other spaces, the result of floods are also slides that occur, so that they can define the areas that are burned. In doing so, I must say that this high house has passed the law that after the fire, after 10 years what was burned may become a building area, so it will be interesting to follow it. So something fires up, so there's damage compensation for the fire, and then after 10 years, the conditions are to declare it a building area, but it's just a theme that it's extremely important to watch all our regulations, look together, not individually. From this law I read, we at the GLAS and HSU Club really have a good intention in terms of defining the damage register because that register is then the basis for everyone further. But it should be used. So it should be seen that the frequent flood in certain areas, let's say, the construction area through the first changes in plans has been abolished. It will be interesting for me to monitor how individual mayors and mayors will behave, whether they will be ready for a proposal to tell their fellow citizens, your area that for years any construction can no longer be built. Will it dare in the year before the election? Will that ever dare? So, there's some to be dared. Therefore, the register of damage absolutely define through spatial plans and have the power to implement it consistently. Paper can take anything. You have to get out in front of your fellow citizens and say, this building area that we give you, say, 15, 20 acres out of the spatial plan and instead give you another building area because it's flooded. In my practice, I've had a case, and I'm not talking about any county or city at all. There was also one area that was built, it was regularly flooded, and then there was a requirement to build a defense, or dam for that blue area. The estimates showed that it was much cheaper to leave that area still naturally blue and those houses actually pay people compensation and allow them to settle their dwellings elsewhere and no one had the strength to implement it and these are sometimes opportunities that should then be read and prescribed there. And the other topic... It's property insurance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I remember for a long time and I really go all over Croatia and I have to say that it was a tradition in Croatia that people provided their property, their property. Remember in rural even the area of family homes, on each family home there was one tin, hot plate, and it was provided. For the simple reason that people had a relationship to the property and if something happened to them, they didn't have a municipality or a town or a county or a country they knocked on the door and said help. Likewise, the first question when you go towards EU funds is whether it is regulated, is it settled. Of course, it can be read from the law to accommodate individual insurance houses. But absolutely we will always stand for order. In a mess some can define simpler, so they're good at giving others and not giving to others. All right, when it's your turn, then you have exactly how it behaves, and in that order, you're not the one who makes this or that possible for someone. Among other things, there is now a role to be played to ensure that, of course, it is properly regulated, but let's try to get back to where we were. Look, think about your apartments, think about whether you have insurance for your apartments because something might happen. It could happen to someone else's negligence, not to your negligence. Therefore, we should treat our assets properly and, therefore, the introduction of insurance is an extremely good model. You also have this series of provisions that speak of the means that are intended to mitigate and remove consequences. Climate change is a fact. Climate change cannot be affected. You can only result from climate change allowing people to continue to live and work. There are a series of measures that are necessary for mitigation. I'm, it's no accident that I've listed waste because waste is really something that has a huge impact on climate change at global level, but all of us, somehow, through municipalities and cities, we have to take care of it. And then you have this one, one two, three provisions that talk about what local self-government units should do. And then, and you should read and see, I read it of course for the city of Zagreb because the city of Zagreb has, unlike some others, a special office that deals with it, like, it was very convenient because the head of that office wanted it at one point and was kind of a little... about being used, but he wanted to use it for something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But therefore, the city of Zagreb has just an office that speaks about what is going on in the event of the mitigation and elimination of the consequences. But there is also an obligation to adopt a specific plan by 30 November, a plan of action should be adopted. And I think that this plan of action should in that case also be brought to the government for a state level because it is one way. So this law you see for yourself that the Ministry of Finance, this law speaks of one segment of why this law is so as to facilitate the work of the commission. I am, among other things, in the Assembly Committee on Relievance, which decides on the distribution of money and you have it, you are caught by a small force. You have strength because on the one hand you have demands that are differently complex and on the other hand you have extremely small assets that you can somehow share. And there you have often, I have a feeling that you have that one pot of water, there's a huge fire, and you with that pot of water just a little bit manage to at least take those arms of that fire out and then you feel really bad there, you feel worse even when people say I've had so much damage and so much and I get I don't know 16 kuna, 82 kuna, of course there's nothing you can do about it. So that's it. Climate change is a fact, a series of laws are needed but not only at the legislative level, but through both strategies and action plans. Indeed, Croatia should act with its own action to mitigate therefore preventing what it can prevent, some things cannot. Some things are also kind of experiences especially when it comes to floods that in some situations it is better to release some water streams, let nature blue some other options. So every climate change has its consequences. This law solves only one segment of all this, de facto solves the work of the commission and facilitates the work of the commission and introduces two things that are extremely important, is an extremely important register. Because you in that register see a few things. You also see how often the situation has occurred on a given space, see if there are other things, especially when it comes to fires, but what you find should be the consequence of spatial planning and spatial planning. And that's where they're going to need a series of things to do in the future. Otherwise, spatial plans have a special cartogram called cartogram 3 or 4 as in which spatial plan, which is called, always the way space is used and the conditions are limited, and they have for those spatial plans that are well-designed, they have defined where the slides, where the areas, where they are, should not be forgotten that Croatia is between 8, so in the degree of the 8-10 earthquake they have defined earthquake zones, due to designing. You can build in an earthquake zone, only then is something more expensive and more expensive in terms of static, so this register is extremely important, but it's extremely important, that we put on the subject again, that we even have a problem providing our property, insurance of property, insurance of crops, insurance of everything, and that's the part that needs to be defined more clearly. But it's just a topic in the end, whether we want order or we want a mess. In a mess, everyone's doing well because there's a lot for everyone. All right, the ones who stand for the order are working, and we'll always stand for the order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96499	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. After Mrs. Dark Taritash's presentation, it's almost hard to say something new about this law, since I can almost fully sign a debate. We have heard several times today, that the purpose of adopting this legal framework is to improve the existing system of aid for the mitigation and removal of the consequences of natural disasters. We have heard on several occasions, to the extent that insurance is important, future damages that are sought by natural disasters exceed the amounts secured for endangering and removing all the damages that are happening. We're witnesses to, say, this gentleman in Gorski Kotar, how much damage and problems were caused by the stormy morning, then because of the huge snow applications, so all of that, some kind of legal proposal and sublegal acts that we're bringing should be resolved. We also believe in the SDP Club that the establishment of a register of damages, which will provide data, by the name of every natural person and legal person, who reported damage, the type of damage, the amount of damage, but they will present, the first database of the damage caused by natural disasters, represents a very high-quality shift. Here, for the public who's following us, maybe to quote literally an article. 3. which speaks of natural disasters, there are even more natural disasters in it than there were in the old, where there were 8 and there are exactly 12 here. So, natural disasters, within the meaning of this law, are considered sudden circumstances, caused by adverse weather conditions, which interrupt normal life, cause victims, damage to property or its loss, and damage to public infrastructure or the environment. So, a natural disaster is considered an earthquake, a stormy hurricane and other strong wind, fire, flood, drought, hail, ice rain, frost, an extraordinary high height of snow, avalanche, an accumulation of ice on the water streams, skating, gliding, immersion of land rollover and what the Secretary of State said at the beginning and said, other phenomena of such scale, which, depending on the local circumstances, cause significant disturbances in people's lives in a particular area. So, here under these other phenomena, there could be a lot of things, but I'm still staying with the proposal, so it might be good, here to indicate, specifically, the damage that has been caused by a major disturbance in plants and animals. Once again, I mention the golden jaundice near the vine, as a potential of great damage, which could occur in Croatian vineyards. Of course, it should be pointed out that, in terms of this law, the damages caused by natural disasters are not considered to have been intentionally caused on their own property, and the damages caused by extreme negligence or by the failure to take prescribed protection measures, which should also be stressed because there are some facilities, very valuable in Croatia, which are privately owned, and where they could be caused by their non-preservation, major damage and endangerment of human lives. A natural disaster may be declared either if the value of the total direct damage is at least 20% of the value of the original income of the unit of local self-government for the previous year or if the income has been reduced by at least 30% of the previous three-year average, in the area of the unit of local self-government or if the accident has been reduced to the value of the assets in the unit of local self-government 30%. So there were some different interpretations here, maybe you should reconsider these percentages that are mentioned here. Therefore, as so far as the decision to declare a natural disaster continues to be made by the mayor on the proposal of the unit leader of local self-government, we have heard that maybe deadlines should be reconsidered, in particular to be submitted within 8 days of the decision on the declaration. So, you see if it can still extend that deadline until the municipal city commission, the first assessment takes place within 15 days of the decision being made, and the final assessment within 50 days of the decision on the declaration being made while the county commission does so within 60 days. What is new in this legislative proposal is that the action plan, which brings the representative body by 30 November of next year for the following year, and it contains a list of measures and measure holders in the event of a natural disaster, and an assessment of the security of equipment and other means of protection and the prevention and suffering of property, population and economic functions, it is important to stress that such an action plan is indeed on the trail of what is better to prevent rather than treat, not to move into the plan of activity, only when the elemental accident happened, and that before that, we did not actually prepare everything necessary, in order for the damage to be as little less. Of course, the novelty is also the preparation of the report by March 31st, which the mayor submits to the Assembly on the implementation of the action plan for the previous Mr. It might be good to consult the Croatian Countys and Cities Association in drawing up this action plan, in order to prevent disasters, to draw up plans that will be as uniform as possible. And, of course, it should also be suggested that when drawing up all these regulations and sublegal acts that need to be passed, it should be taken into account to make it as high as possible. We also consider it logical that the action plan is based on civil protection plans. What should be said, mentioned emergency assistance, is allocated from the budget of units of local and regional self-government as a single advance and the decision is taken by the representative body on the proposal of the unit leader of the regional and local self-government. So we have to mention that it's really a lot of damage, so let me remind you again of the stormy south where it is, for example. in the area of Gorski Kotar 12. The 12th mayor made a decision to resuscitate a roof in Gorski kotar, which was at that time 500 000 kuna, which was actually a drop in the sea of all the damages that occurred and the result of the great snow falling in the Gorski Kotar where the county had to allocate 7.5 additional 7.5 million kuna for the problems caused by a large amount of snow, which is not rarely in the Gorski Kotar but this year was more than usual. As far as transitional provisions are concerned, the current methodology for assessing the damages from natural disasters remains in effect until the adoption of a new regulation by the finance minister within 6 months, and I always appeal that it might be good for all these deadlines to be as short as possible, that, practically, at the moment we read the legal solutions are already finished and the rules, I don't know why these rules should then, through a debate that would be conducted, could show how much life-threatening the law is and how it will improve the area concerned. In conclusion, what we can say, therefore, is the newspaper that is in this law, as conditions for declaring a natural disaster, haste aid, a plan of action, a register, we consider good solutions. Also in the source of money to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, it is not mentioned except for emergency assistance, the budget of local and regional self-government units. In view of the overall small resources, it is obvious that the legislator's intention to provide more property and thus to resolve the consequences, measures should also be seen to encourage greater this, insurance. Therefore, the specific life of this law will only be assessed after we know the rules as well as the methodology and content of the regulations which will significantly condition how data will be entered into the Register of damage but in our first reading as a SDP club we support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96501	Thank you, too. We move to individual debates, the first individual debate has Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96502	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. Here, in the first reading and this debate which is extremely important, I must again express my disdain that there is no Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić here because this is a topic which is, it is not only important to show how much more useful the quality of the law would bring to Croatian citizens but it is also necessary to have the presence of a minister when a certain social consciousness is changed because Croatia, and its citizens, as a result of the damage to the EU's natural disasters at the top of the claims, on what happens to us and on the other hand, by the insurance and awareness of people that they should potentially secure their property in their possession. And this is also a demonstration, meaning also showing the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Minister of Resistance, shows also the relationship to the whole problem. So it's impossible when something that burdens our citizens so much, which I think right now is something that we should talk about most when we talk about agriculture and about ensuring the property of our citizens and all that, that the minister doesn't show interest in being present at this session at all. But of course when a law is passed for Agrokor in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Ivica Todorovic calls, the minister runs. The minister runs, goes incognito, behind the plan, quietly, hiding in meetings with Mr. Ivica Todorovic, allegedly speaking too much at these meetings, but commenting on things that the minister should do when it comes to such an important matter in his office, at the ministry, in meetings where he in some way presents himself with dignity as Minister of the Republic of Croatia, especially Minister of Finance. And normally, then people don't experience this law or what the state does to help them when an elemental disaster occurs, when neither the government nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia is experiencing it. We have a situation where over 3.5 billion kuna per year the damage is reported in the Republic of Croatia, it is 0.2% of GDP, it is very much, people of course report it because certain things and Croatia is exposed to certain elemental disasters and floods and cold and freezing rain, everything that happens and on that side we must legally find a solution to promote and responsible behaviour towards our citizens' assets so that, in part and there, they have certain citizens, insurance, for years, they may in some way pay some small amount, but when the damage happens, they have the opportunity to refund from the insurance company or some fund the total amount, not on average 2 to 5% of what the average payment is compared to what the citizens asked for. And then you have a situation as it was now, this year, the lady from Kistanj, whom Croatia paid off, and the commission has decided to pay 55 kuna indemnity, watch out for this 55 kuna indemnity for 1,500 cane vines. And now the question is, she's filing for damages she had to pay off the mark of 70 kuna. She paid 70 kuna women to get 55 kuna back and, of course, in despair and dissatisfaction, she said a very clear message which is the only and logical that the government, the government in the county and all those involved in the procedure and the commission are making fun of the poor. Or, for example, when 250 kunas of damage are paid for some 40 burnt centuries of olives, I just want to show you how illogical things are, and even more illogical it is to see that the cost of the commission is two people who did it in that same municipality of 4500 kuna. means that the procedure would be done, to do it physically, to assess, to process certain requirements, to pay him 4500 kuna, and to people who have suffered the damage as much as reported, here's the lady who had 1400 cane 55 kuna, the one who had olives of 250 kuna. So is that normal for you? And what does that even say about us as a legislator who instead of making sure we promote this just now, what I said, that people are saving through insurance in some way for years and that when this drama happens, they pay 100, 150 kuna insurance a year, and in 10 years, when they get at least they get what they get, that kind of compensation. It is, of course, an average, but if it happens to someone and it can be more protected before, but no, our legislator didn't think that way and unfortunately we don't have that possibility of that kind, I'd say climate change is happening in our society. What is certain is that climate change is going to lead to more and more damage problems, that here we are now seeing, maybe it sounds funny to someone, but over the Atlantic is going to form a hurricane that will hit the EU, or Europe for the first time, I would say in that way that the storm that was usually reserved for the United States, especially down the Gulf of Mexico and I would say the lower part of the United States, so now it can happen for the next 10, 15, 20 years and in Europe. We may also be witnesses in Croatia once in a little bigger storm and therefore need to change people's awareness that the average in Croatia per capita is 300 kuna per year, on average paying for collateral for property which is 4 times less than the European average, 4 times less, and we have more than per capita property, so in Croatia 80% of citizens have some real estate in their possession, it is the residents' pay insurance and that in this way tries to develop people's consciousness. And, of course, there'll be minor problems, and normally, then we won't have payments like we've had payments insufficient, so three and a half billion kuna, and the budget counts for a hundred million kunas per year. Well, that's nothing. It's not enough, it's nothing, and then it's normal for people to get 50 or 100 kuna for something that might be a real damage worth 5 or 10,000 kuna and ours, who suggest, our government should take care of that and think about it. Otherwise, according to the damages paid, and when it was paid more for, say, problems and handicrafts that we had in 2014 due to the great floods and that year was planned in the budget of 900 and some million kunas, again I would have said it looked to people and not enough and to cover those damages that were, although when you see the number of damages reported per year in the Republic of Croatia and the damages are usually reported in a larger amount than Croatia stands out for culture in total in the budget of the Ministry of Culture, that is, everything that we set out in some way for the preservation of cultural heritage and everything else. So here, to resume Mr. Vice President, you probably noticed that, too, fellow Maric is not present on such an important subject and is not coming here today, probably little and in fear that the MPs might not have asked him this controversially why Todorovic is running, rather than running to the Croatian Parliament when it is necessary to defend the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96503	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96504	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, you have opened the real question, but not only in terms of the presence of Minister Marić at this session, but in the presence of Minister Marić and Ministry of Finance in Croatian society. Namely, do you know what is the only institution that is a financial institution available to citizens in rural areas? It is only now at this moment Croatia's post office and its work is measured in minutes, not in hours more, but in minutes in which citizens can come, pay some bill and go home. If the Ministry of Finance does not think seriously about the Croatian Agricultural Bank, about the Croatian rural bank, and even here when we talk about the pursuit of this law, that what you say is a problem, that people are more secure of their property, even again in an insurance house that would be owned by the state, because of that they do not need to run away as a devil from the incense. By then the Ministry of Finance will not be doing a serious job because our rural space is becoming less populated and more and more people are exposed to all possible dangers, of course and the dangers of natural disasters.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96505	The answer to Mr. Maras' replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96506	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar, I agree with you. Unfortunately, they're present, but when it comes to shooting someone in the pocket or closing the store. That's when they're present. And in Koprivnica a few weeks ago, I said, because of a flower, there's a flower shop in the market. I'm afraid they're here. But what he wants to tell you is, which is why, if the Republic of Croatia already wants to withdraw funds and effects and certain protection, for example, in agriculture and rural areas in the Republic of Croatia, which is why the obligation to secure certain assets related to it is not introduced when the incentives are paid. So when you go to the bank, when you work house or apartment, you have an obligation to take certain insurance, but when you build a chair and take cows and bulls, it's not an obligation. So that's why one doesn't connect with another. Thus, the Croatian State or the Ministry would also help develop the awareness of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96507	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar has another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96508	Dear Representative Maras, I was impressed by this story of yours about how the woman reported the damage in the vineyard and that, for the great damage, she had actually received a poor compensation of 55 kuna, and that she would have had to pay 70 kuna of those taxis in the first place, which means that by actually reporting damage and damage, she was at a loss, and she had a lot of paperwork. So I'd like to ask you, was that working the same way at the time when you were the minister or when the SDP was in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96509	Thank you, too, for your briefness. Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96510	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, I doubt this lady had two fires in a few years. So 1400, it would be a really big coincidence that this accident to the lady I just told you happened, so I'm sure she didn't have such a case when I was a minister, or she didn't file for 70 kuna, and she got 55 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96511	Thank you, too. The same is now in the form of an individual debate, Mr. Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, assistant. Well, here is the proposal for a Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters that would have been given to help alleviate and partially eliminate the consequences of natural disasters should be regulated in a much better way than it has ever been. Natural disasters in the past few years have been quite common in the Republic of Croatia. These are fires, floods, slides, beatings and other weather disasters that cause huge damage to the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, endanger agricultural production and economic stability of affected areas. One of the objectives of this law is to achieve more effective records of all damages caused by natural disasters that would be done in one place through an application solution registering damages from natural disasters. The damages are very rarely reconciled completely. Citizens who are damaged in natural disasters are revolved by the amounts paid to them, the inability to stabilise the business of the damages and the ineffectiveness of the existing system, granted aid due to the extremely small funds allocated as aid. They encourage the need to raise awareness of the importance of insurance and property, as well as agricultural crops, and I would recommend that what I said on the damage committee, that the insurance commitment be to what is called an incentive in agriculture. Incentive in agriculture is pointless unless the farmer has his own crop and secured it. I believe that in this respect, they would further encourage all of them, but they would tie them to the insurance that is necessary, and thus repair their potential damages that could occur. The main message of this Act is the insurance of property so that the main damage can be covered by the very shelves. Causes, say, flood. I have spoken several times about what floods bring, and in most cases they are due to too many rainfalls and storms that are happening more and more often. However, our rivers are reduced capacity of flow, and there is also a major problem. The problem of the flow of our river as well as the absorption of the waters of the rainwaters that happen are actually a problem that has been pushing the Republic of Croatia for many years and no one wants to make a concrete solution about it. The solution is to clean up our riverbeds and no Natura 2000 either protected landscape or natural habitat or any other species referred to in the Nature Protection Act should be used on our rivers but a public interest in preventing floods, which is cleaning our troughs. It would be a mul multiplier factor because by cleaning these troughs that cost the state nothing, but the state gets from exploiting mineral raw materials it gets money for concession at the site, according to the sold gravel. It can also include part of flood insurance as far as it happens, so I think that billions of last kuna imported from the Republic of Serbia, from the BiH and Hungary on our roads, highways, into the construction sector and irrevocably gave it something that belongs to us. So when the river Drava trough goes to the border with Hungary while the Hungarians pull a pebble meter from the border line, there's a hole in which the water carries our material. Who are they selling? They're selling our material to us again. We lose as a state all the time and no one wants to talk about it clearly. If it's 2 meters up the bottom of a bunch of gravel and sand, then of course we're not going to build dikes 2 meters higher than the current ones than we're going to clean the trough. Well, that is, I mean as clear as one, and I think we should stick to it and use it right in floods when absorbing the capacity of the rainwaters would be as great as possible in our riverbeds and there should not be any law on nature protection or any Natura 2000 but must be used public interest and even by order in some situations to solve waterway cleaning, given that we have committed to international conventions that the airworthiness of roads in categories that are defined must be in the whole area of the Republic and which is not, in fact, for ten years now, not applicable or not. So flood damage is a causal link and not maintaining our rivers over the years, because by law we banned the exploitation of mineral raw materials from our rivers. Both this and when the Law changed and the Explosion was allowed, no sublegal acts were passed so that they would be in office and that they could be done. Dozens of shipmen and sequins have failed, they've come into difficult positions and positions, and I think the banks even took their houses and their ships and everything they had from their property. It is difficult to restore the fleet, let alone do something else, so that millions of cubes of gravel and sand that have been deposited in our rivers have been removed and the capacity of the river has increased, and in the construction sector and in the state register these coins have not been costing anything but should only be awarded a concession. Nothing else. It is noted that this law is very restrictive on compensation for damages. Article 4 provides for the principles to be applied by the competent authorities when setting out the criteria for the allocation of aid for the partial removal of the consequences of natural disasters and the principles require the taking into account the extent of the damage suffered and the impact of natural disasters on the victims of the population, the threat of life and human health and the prevention of the smooth functioning of the economy. In this respect, a natural disaster may only be declared subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 4, Article 3 of this Act and aid for mitigation, in part to remove the consequences of natural disasters shall not be granted for damages to property which is secured, damage to property caused by intentional or extreme negligence, indirect damage caused by illegally constructed public purpose buildings, economic buildings and residential buildings, damage to the facility or area declared to be cultural goods, damages are not in a prescribed manner entered in the register, damages in the case of security risks on property which is not secured if the value of property damage is less than 60% of the value of the property. Furthermore, this law also prescribes deadlines for carrying out a series of actions and deadlines from the day of the declaration of a natural disaster. However, it should be noted that the deadlines for the handling of the competent authorities following confirmation of the final assessment of the damage are not prescribed. When we talk about sources of means to mitigate the partial removal of the consequences of natural disasters, this law provides for funding from the state budget, EU funds and donations. I'd put a percentage there in the future from the exploitation of mineral raw materials from our rivers to be used to repair the damage. It is unclear that Article 22 provides for the application of State aid rules in the granting of aid for the mitigation and partial elimination of the consequences of natural disasters to entrepreneurs. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in paragraph 1 determines that any aid granted by a Member State or granted through State resources in any form that is disrupting or threatening to distort competition by placing certain entrepreneurs or the production of certain goods in a more favourable position is incompatible with the internal market to the extent that it affects trade between Member States. However, paragraph 2 of the same Article states that, among other things, aid for the elimination of damage caused by natural disasters or exceptional merger events with the internal market. Therefore, they do not constitute a distortion of competition by placing certain entrepreneurs or the production of certain goods in a more favourable position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96513	Thank you very much. Two replicas. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96514	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic, your interesting debate on the problem of floods has been raised by me two questions which if you can explain a little. First of all, you said the garbage in the rivers reduces the flow of the river and that caused the flood. So exactly how you think we can get rid of garbage in the rivers that floods don't happen. Another problem you said was the problem of Croatian gravel that rivers drive towards Serbia, or push, electricity pushes Croatia's gravel towards Serbia, and then as they say, they expensively sell us that Croatian gravel that took the electricity to Serbia. And now I want to know how to solve this problem that electricity simply doesn't take Croatian gravel to Serbia and then they sell it to us expensively for our roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96515	Do you want it back or do you want it back? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96516	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, first you don't listen to what I was saying, I wasn't talking about any garbage, I was talking about piles, sand and gravel that the water brought along with its flow. They're 2 meters thick layers, 2 meters up the trough of our rivers, we're importing gravel. For example, in the Neretva Delta, which is blocked, no more gravel, due to the law ban, sand and gravel are imported to Albanian ships. I also have a list of how many millions of dollars of imported gravel, sand, rocks in the Republic of Croatia, and we own all these natural resources, we just banned them from implementing them. That's what I've been talking about, and I think that's where emergency measures and steps must be taken, in order to call concessions, over all our rivers, or orders, due to the waterway, are headed to clean up with all the facilities that we own, as well as perhaps your neighbors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96517	Thank you very much, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96518	Thank you very much. Dear Djakic, you have touched a very interesting topic, some may find it funny, but with the bridge on Eve's river it has always become a big hill, so to speak the gravel, which has been removed, because it cleaned the bottom of the Sava River. Now that you look, you have a river island there, a big and normal thing, when Sava grows up, that then grows above it. The same story is, on the river Cup there were famous seines, which were cleaning the bottom of the Kupa River and it is certain that the bottom of the Kupa River, now relatively, some time ago, was larger by a meter, a meter and a half. Now all of a sudden, there's a problem of coastal waters and things like that. But the question arises, who in the era of road construction in the Republic of Croatia has brought such a ban, under cover of environmental protection, of this, that it is not done by gravel and on the other hand, I have never known how to set a border on Savi in half, so the Bosnians can extract gravel, and we in Croatia can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96519	Thank you. Mr. Djakic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96520	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, yes, several times we have encouraged this topic and the law has changed, but the sublegal acts have never been passed and the new law that is in the work on Croatian waters also does not foresee the possibility... peace raw materials from our rivers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will personally point out that it changes such a possibility and rules and that it goes into cleaning up the troughs of our rivers, in order to prevent floods, which have been caused by huge damage, we have seen in Eastern Slavonia, we have seen in other parts of Varazdin, we have also seen in Neretva, what has happened, all of these are the causal linkages of pollution of the waterbeds of our rivers, the non-maintaining of maritime roads, and we have committed ourselves to international conventions. The huge economic damage is that by importing gravel and sand from neighbouring countries, made by the Republic of Croatia over the past 10-15 years and I think it measures 5 to 6 billion kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96521	Time Mr. Djakic, thank you. Let's move on with individual debates, Mr. Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96522	Dear Chairman, gentlemen from the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say a few words about this bill, as a parliamentary representative, but also as a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from natural disasters established by the Croatian Parliament. We had an example here of how someone was paid for the damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96523	I can apologize to you, I made one mistake and I'd like to make it right. We'll stop your time, because he had a replica and Mr. Shucker and And then there was no answer, what? [[Intruder: He did the replica.]] Time's stopped, go ahead. [[Intruder: And he would also want individually.]] We'll report you to Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96524	No problem, Mr. Shucker, will speak. I was going to say that this is not the only case, that so little compensation has been paid to people who have reported their damage to the elemental disasters, which is nothing unusual, because we heard in the opening statement of Mr. Secretary of State that in the past Mr. damages from the elemental disasters were nearly $ 3.5 billion, of which only the agricultural part had dropped nearly 2 billion. And only the state commission was ahead of some task, and we heard the same thing, that in only 170 million kuna, in the last 5 years the state budget has spent on damages from elementary disasters, everyone is also aware in the commission, that our decisions, however chemicalized and in whatever ways the methodologies apply with a amount of, say, 20 million kunas or something that was then increased at the end of the year, cannot be compensated for 3.5 billion kn damages reported. Whether these damages are real or not, that's what you'd be able to talk about. Also, about what someone has already said, that everyone does not report any more damage, especially farmers, because they know that they will receive these symbolic amounts and not simply carry out this procedure. But I also think that this law is going in the right direction, and that's what more speakers have said here, that we just all have to be aware of something, as Mrs. Dark Taritash mentioned, that in some past times, people simply knew they had to secure their property. The provision of property is something fundamental, which should be done, primarily by their houses, their economic facilities, but also their crops, that is, its agricultural areas, and that would be agreed with Mr Maras, that it should be seen, that in the case of the payment of the support in agriculture, it encourages the colloquism of how it is spoken, that it already obliges farmers to direct one part of it into insurance. It should clearly include state, local, regional self-government, to subsidise part of these insurance premiums. And I think that a simple and one education should go in that direction to ensure that all private assets are provided as much as possible. That someone doesn't hope that his country, that the state will damage him and he hasn't secured his own private property. Clearly, there are always exceptions to this, there are always extraordinary measures or something that has happened that could not have been predicted or something that individual insurance houses or everything they do not want to provide. And surely in such extreme cases, both states and units of local self-government should jump in. One example was that last slide that was at Croatia's Kostanica where such a thing could be really difficult to predict and people in such situations should be helped, not to talk about that shooting, the shooting of the embankment in eastern Slavonia when a large surface was flooded, and when it can be said that it happened in part by the failure of some state bodies that did not do their job properly. This law also provides for the establishment of a register of registered damages. I think that's to say hello, and it's also going to give the register a lot of reading, so we might find out that some are reporting damage neatly as soon as there's any chance and some people aren't using that possibility at all. I think in the end that this whole law and with a series of measures that the predecessors said here and Mr. Djakic mentioned and quite restrictive that the simple state shows and this is seen from the budget backwards and for 5 and more years simply has no means to adequately cover the damages and that, as I have already said, people have to turn to ensure their property and that if they eventually come and don't let God get to the elemental accident that then you depecate yourself from your insurance policy. However, in any case, here is article 35, which states that the Commission's assessment committee will pay up to 5% of the confirmed damage, although there is an item 3 that speaks of exceptions. So once again from this place means the state will try to deprive people as much as it can but apparently the possibilities of the budget of the small and state budget of the units of local self-government so I call on everyone to find the best way to help people in that part of the insurance of their private property. And they're also encouraged to do that because it's the only thing that's so good a solution that if it comes to harm, then people will be compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96525	Thank you, too. You have one replica. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96526	Thank you very much. Mr. Felak, I said and that should be the way it should be, and I hope you agree with that, that when it comes to incentives and you come from the agricultural area, they have to be related to certain insurance. It cannot happen that the state pays off incentives to small craftsmen, farmers, etc., and that, as a result of the natural disasters, it is found that people unfortunately did not provide their basic assets, etc. And then compensation is sought, and in the end it is not enough, nor in the small part, to repair the damage that has been done. So it's necessary right away in the beginning to regulate and I think it should be tied to each other. So absolutely any incentive for any ministry of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers should be linked to certain insurance and property or insurance of what the incentive is going to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96527	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96528	Dear Mr. Maras, I completely agree with you, and that's what I said in my debate, and maybe it's not such a common case that we both agree, but we absolutely agree on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96529	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Miro Bulj is on his way, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96531	Thank you very much. Here, I see here that the secretary has heard all the suggestions, so we're talking about one problem, which every year is more and more reported damages, that's what I've been saying on behalf of the club, but I believe that simply all institutions, all ministries have to commit, because each must have in their own part, a resolution, a certain means to solve this problem. From spatial planning, regional development, to the social ministry. So we all have to be, the Ministry of Finance is of course crucial, but the Ministry of Agriculture, as a key, resolutely, I think, must have some measure, but the key measures are, I repeat the prevention again. The fact that 90% of the fires are caused by non-sustaining forests, floods due to canal failure, means simple and slippery areas, too, along with, but some things we can't influence. Once again, I would say, in the end, that if you could help the ministry gentlemen, I would only talk to Shuker, my colleague Shuker, if I could refer to the question, the secretary for solving these problems and the people whose houses were burned down, we talked to him a moment ago, to solve the problem. Because people aren't guilty, because in the fire, last year they burned down their houses, they got 21%, I told you state funds. I know there's a lot of funding in the budget item, I've been giving amendments, but there's always a rebalancing, there's always the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Sea, to solve the rebalancing, to pay those people, whose houses are 100% voted on. To restore them, at least in the estimated amount, regardless of the estimated amount, must be much less than the actual damage. I believe that this should be done for this reason, but they are not responsible for this huge fire, it is responsible for this prevention, the whole system that did not work, which was last year in Dalmatia, which warned us that it could reach the centre of Split itself. We have, in my knowledge, such three houses, residential houses, family houses. If you can find, the way and model, I'll send you a memo, names and last names of those people, you probably have, again, helped the city 15%, out of the estimated county 15%, certainly and to the people who crash in the rinks of the house, so the diameter comes there and says, we'll pay the damages to the people of 100%. However, I'm glad it is, but I believe you'll solve these in the fire, find the amounts and solve this problem, it's in... It's the part about Žrnovica, people who have lived in these places for centuries, so it's not the problem that fellow Shuker said, that it was done in flooded areas, where it was flooded for centuries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because old settlements, 90% of them will never flood, because it's been built and it's some kind of a place, and that's a question, now the ministries of space in the formation of county spatial plans, local spatial plans, where the older ones should listen, maybe not, more to the elderly, but I know the same thing in Sinj, if they make up the blue field, along with Cetina herself, the house, that, of course, it's a great possibility that this area will flood. But if it's like the older ones did, they work at the hill, of course, and there's a minimal or no possibility of flooding, but it's now a matter of spatial planning and the Ministry of Construction. As for the irrigation of agriculture, but this isn't your portfolio, but I'd like to send a message here if this were a problem for all ministries. So it's the problem of all the ministries. And here I am, once again, at the end, and that's what I was saying, asking for resolution, to end these people's homes, to pay off, because they're not guilty, what happened to that huge elemental disaster. They estimate the damage in that amount, I repeat again, much less than the real damage, but at least to pay for it. There came the town of Solin with 15%, the county, the state gave 21% of the estimated. Here. I if you can find the possibilities of space, I've given the amendment... Unfortunately, the budget was not accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know that this amount is a small and very small amount for you to help in the budget, but I believe that the ministry has ways and opportunities to pay for the damage to people who have experienced 100% burning of their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96532	Thank you, too. It's Mr. Domagoj's turn, and the replica, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, the replica, and then the speech afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you've touched an important topic I want to underline and what I think is actually a binding problem, when we're talking about damages. You were talking about the location of houses, buildings, housing etc. So that question, which my suffers, in such cases, who issued that permit, that location permit, permission to build in that place because, yes, you say yourself, there are certain geographical predispositions why houses were built on certain terrains, or at certain locations and not at certain locations. So I'm interested in who was issuing those location permits and it was known that they were in floods in a threatened area or in a rink or whatever. So someone here must be responsible at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96534	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96535	Well, the Croatian state of course has its instruments, we have space and the most important space and we need to plan the space well but there is no logic. If our elders were down in Dalmatia or anywhere working in the hill or on the hill they worked their houses, not by the rivers themselves, the fields, so they went healthy. But the fact is that they now work houses in areas that are flooded areas. It means that the Department of Construction, i.e. All bodies that have local, county all who issue locations, permits in spatial planning, so space is not planned in such a way that we have huge damages. So someone gave these people permission, the institutions didn't behave well, they didn't behave professionally, and they probably have an expert, but they made huge mistakes if they gave the permits and they gave them in the field, the end of the rivers that were flooded. So that doesn't make any sense. So the persons responsible are at the Department of Construction, local self-government, county offices for spatial planning. And it's simple and you should be responsible for this damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96536	Excuse me, Mr. Bull, time. Let's move on again, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic, but now as protagonists of individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief because before me my colleagues said so as far as our club is concerned, we'll at least support this law in the first reading, we think he's a step forward, we'll see what more changes he'll experience until the second reading. But I would like to point out once again a few things that I think are extremely important for further planning and protection against disasters and compensations that the state then provides. So we mentioned a little before, and here we are with colleague Bulja, it's a license issue, so the location and construction that were being issued, and let's be honest with each other, not always, on the field that was suitable for that. So I think it's cases, that there are such cases all over Croatia and that the competent institutions, whether it's county spatial planning offices or someone else made big mistakes. And because of this, certain housing and other facilities are often in a bad position and are at greater risk. You also have a situation in Kuševec in a small suburban village of Đakov where the neighbouring municipality issued a permit for building economic facilities or farms too close to the settlement. So Kuševac belongs to the municipality of Djakovo, it is about the neighbouring municipality, which gave the location permit to build the farm next to this populated place, which creates very big problems both because of the smell and the feces and other pollution that farms generate. So that's just one very plastic example for you, even though here in Kushevec, I don't think there's any threat in the sense that they're either on a scale or on a slide or exposed to some, so economic facilities aren't at any risk. However, the quality of life of citizens or inhabitants of Kuševec is significantly disrupted. It has also been mentioned here before, and I think that this should certainly be insisted both in the future and perhaps also in the Agriculture Act that the crops that are encouraged must certainly be ensured and that this is one of the conditions for the crops to be encouraged, to be secured. Someone mentioned it before, and I think it's even the secretary of state that there used to be a much more developed culture of insurance and real estate and movables, crops, etc. which is no longer so widespread and which should be and the citizens should actually be directed and encouraged in this direction. And finally, since Slavonia has been exposed to a lot of floods, I know this isn't the Ministry of Finance's portfolio, but I have to say because of us MPs, it's a very big problem not maintaining the channel. So the unclassified channels especially that should be maintained by the owners of the field, i.e. the ornaments that are next to them are generally unsustained, and if the county services are mostly of their own free will, it often happens to you that you have an entire forest that grows out of your canals. In such a case, in case, we have a good channel network but it's not fully functional. In the event that your water rises, so you simply don't have a channel network that can absorb them, and that's why there's damage. So when we talk about health and health, I think that when we talk about natural disasters of prevention, 1 kuna invested in prevention is probably 4 kunas that come back to us through damages that we didn't have to pay in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96538	Thank you, too. Mr. Liposchack has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96539	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, not only you and a series of speakers, mentioned planning in space, namely non-planning and the constant question of who issued the permits was raised. I would not exclusively blame those institutions or persons who have issued the permits, namely that the situation in the area is changing more and more yearly, and that there are certain procedures in the space that are happening to us, not only to change the flow of the river, but also to change the flow of these floodwaters and gloves, and hence, the non-maintaining of the sewers and the various sinks, leading to the fact that the areas that were once outside the flood zone, here in Ogulin, in particular, because of these things, the non-maintainment of the drain canals, the sinks, and I will say so that I do not say the weightier word to the clumsy interventions in the area, suddenly, over a few years, become actually part of that flood zone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96540	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague, of course there are also these cases especially that you mentioned the clumsy interventions in the area of that unfortunately was very much. So without permission, without the authorisation of the competent authorities, and often it was also a risk, or factor that contributed to an increase in risk but also this non-maintainment. So I don't blame it absolutely, of course it's not all the institutions' fault, but it's part of it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96542	And now, sir, again, Mr. Liposchack, who will have an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96543	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal of the Law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, and in fact I must at first say that I am saddened by this interest in this subject, especially because when such things happen, we will be full of newspapers, full of media about how something is wrong, how it is not well done, and when we bring such a legal solution, the interest is relatively weak. But back on the subject, we return to the law, or legal framework that makes us here today, and let's say that we are witnessing that because of climate change and many other causes from year to year, there is a growing number of natural disasters and all the bad things that go with it. We can see for ourselves that the funds that we have for the resolution of these consequences are relatively small in the state budget, on average 20 million kuna per year, in exceptional cases as we did last year, we have increased these funds to a hundred million kuna, and this may seem to be some big money to the first one, but when we take the number of users and the number of people who have suffered certain damages and the consequences of these natural disasters, we can see when that money is distributed and when that figure is divided into that compensation, we can call them that, that is, or compensation either minimal or very often in humans, we could hear it today in the debate, they also cause one revolution and negative reactions. That is why the fundamental intensity of this law and the thing that wants to be presented is the necessity of insurance, primarily the necessity of insurance against agricultural goods and, of course, that makes sense, especially if we realize that we are also experiencing subsidies, or support, especially through agriculture as certain public funds that we must be responsible for. Now it all looks very nice on paper, but what's happening to us on the ground, that's what's more important to us in this case. I personally come from the Carlovakia County, from the city of Ogulin, which is unfortunately here over the past few years more and more exposed to various natural disasters, from catastrophic floods, beatings, snowfalls, windfalls, large amounts of snow that have also hit us and in fact in conversation with agricultural producers, primarily here I think of those agricultural producers who deal with agriculture as a basic activity, in particular the producers of our Ogulinian cabbage, or our Ogulinian cabbage, I had the opportunity to talk to them a few hours ago, there are at the Jelačić Ban Square at the winter fair, I can say that they are actually very, as much as we read here on one side or the other depending on the political situation, they look very positive. There are a few reasons why. The first reason we have already mentioned is that the fees they receive from the state budget or fees through units of local or regional self-government are relatively small or are such that they very often cause revolt and ridicule in the producers themselves and do not actually cover any damage to them. The second thing that is important is that more and more are present in the last few years and subsidies for the insurance of agricultural goods, so in the previous period, support has been provided up to 70 % of the tenders opened by the paying agency in agriculture which has used a good part of the farmer. If we add concrete measures to this, let's say in the carlovakia county in which the county additionally co-financed, i.e. encouraged through a 50% support programme in agriculture, I come up with a figure that was relatively acceptable to our farmers and that many have also taken advantage of. And just through such participation in the policy we see that insurance is one very good way and in fact the only way we can, not only secure our crops of agricultural goods, but make sure that in the event of any damage at least part of that invested we get back. However, there are also a number of problems that occur in the practice itself, or in the field itself, they may not be directly related to this law and are not directly within the jurisdiction of the law, but I think it is also important to mention them, first of all it is a long-term practice that takes place almost very often in our areas where it is difficult to find a plot that is larger than one hectare, so people are forced to various combinations, especially manufacturers to come to the ground, so that it happens very often that the real owners initially rented or gave to the use of their country's agricultural producers in a way that they do not grow up, that they do not have to mow it, that they do not have to keep it. In time with the emergence of subsidies and support, the following situation is taking place, that real owners actually collect incentives because the country is on them in the ark, and that someone else is working the country and there is a problem because these people who process the country can't even achieve insurance subsidies, and they can't even secure a country that doesn't run on paper. Similarly questionable are the policy insurance related to droughts, information comes from the field that insurance companies or large parts or do not want to provide crops for drought damage at some initial periods have been doing so, lately becoming less and less so that it is very often difficult to secure crops from drought damage. And I also hope that the insurance houses in the future will be a little more flexible because certain houses have shown exceptional interest in ensuring agricultural goods while others are more difficult, so we are coming into a situation that farmers from certain areas where they do not operate and insurance houses have a problem and are very often giving up insurance for reasons because it also represents additional costs. Finally, I personally welcome once again this intention to turn our attention to ensuring our own agricultural, primarily goods, I think that this is a very good solution, especially to the relationship between the invested and acquired, especially whether we have in mind state subsidies and subsidies from local and regional self-government units and the fact that we are in such a time where we will be more difficult and more difficult to predict, due to certain climate change and natural disasters that could affect us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96544	Thank you, too. And now in intimacy, our 7.8 MPs as far as we have, Mr. Hajdukovic is replicating Mr. Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even though you're a colleague, right? Focused on agricultural producers, I would say, that is, add something to it. Namely, as he mentioned before, they are often compensated, which the state gives for certain natural disasters, so funny, that agricultural producers write, and they wish more had cost them lead paper, on which they submitted a report. I think the subsidies are the way, for insurance, that this is the way to go, we just have to keep in mind that local self-government units, so I'm not talking about regional self-government, they often have very... fiscal capacity for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let’s say one municipality of Levantska Varoš or one municipality of Villavo or Podravska Moslavina, I doubt it can allocate any significant amount to help its producers and which there is much in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96546	And now Mr. Liposcack will respond to Mr. Hajdovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96547	I absolutely agree with you, especially with regard to the damages that are ridiculous, we have data that since 2013-2017 more than 12 billion kunas have been reported, and only 174 million kunas have been paid, which means one level of 1.1% and as far as subsidies are concerned, yes, local self-government units, especially those such as those, are the biggest differences in possibilities, i.e. inability, to subsidise such measures. However, the counties are those that can draw much more, let's say so, but here are the tenders from the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, which envisioned co-financing up to 70% of the policy, I think one big step forward and with less help from the county, I specifically mentioned the carlovakia county, which additionally gave the remaining 50% of the incentives, i.e., subsidies. I think in a very satisfying way, farmers can handle their insurance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96548	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Ivan Shuker's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, many colleagues and colleagues. When we're discussing this law, I can't help thinking about our inconsistencies when we talk about problems. So last week when we talked about taxes, everyone would cut taxes, and these, and those, would compete to do what they would do, and no one would think about it, if it were the revenue side of the budget, both state and local self-government units. So today, everyone would give a lot of money to pay compensation from elementary disasters, but only days. Because when they get into the budget, the debate will be different. But regardless of all the criticisms that were presented today, on this bill, I think he's good, that he solves some things, because these things can never be solved until the end. However, it may give some guidance, in which it should go, not this ministry that provides money, but some other state institutions and other ministries. What we want to help our citizens, when they are affected by an elemental accident, is the consequence of something, which is what man, perhaps not us in Croatia, because we were too little, have had an impact, these are climate change, but there are also things where we ourselves in everyday life, and we can certainly influence that these accidents and horrors that our fellow citizens are experiencing happen in a smaller form. We've had enough today, we've often mentioned spatial documentation. This spatial documentation is a key document, as someone sees the development of their g work, their county, and it is illogical that they are either an economic or residential zone, in places where they used to strike people, they simply didn't build. And when you look at, let's say, I'll remember, when Sava broke through a rash in the Velika Gorica area, eight years ago, very interesting, that all those houses that were built, 50-60 years ago, none of them were flooded, and people didn't do them on a spatial basis, not at all, but based on some kind of life experience. Unfortunately, those who later worked, something other than a building permit, someone based on a spatial plan, those houses were flooded. The next thing we really need to think about, when we're talking about this topic, that a lot of waterways are just gone, a lot of channels aren't being maintained and we're only talking about them when there's a water verse and then we're talking about how it does something. Let's let our colleagues and colleagues have a little bit of an examination, how many times have we been in this House, when we discuss the state budget and the financial plan of the Croatian waters, talked about this problem that we're talking about here today. Many today mention here incentives etc. However, we need to know that incentives come from EU funds and the question is how much we can influence setting up some ultimatums, so someone has to do something one way or another. And now what's only effective, which only ensures our citizens that tomorrow they will receive some sort of compensation for what's been destroyed is insurance. However, there is now a big question. I'll start from this civil section first, as unfortunately as our citizens at this point, are able to afford, so to speak, the cost of... Budget? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very little. And when we talk about agriculture, the first city to launch an action to secure agricultural areas was the city of Velika Gorica in 2002-2003. And I will never forget when I came to talk in Croatia security they looked at me white, how we're going to do it. At that time, the light agronomies and others involved in this activity, with people from insurance companies, slowly set off and even the famous formula 25, 25, 25, 25 owners, 25 cities, 25 counties and 25% of the Ministry of Agriculture took place. And yesterday we had a chance here to discuss the Agriculture Act, a lot of people were talking about it, but one very important topic was almost, the couple touched us, which is that through the agency I think that the law provided 70% of the insurance policy. Also, when someone raises an orchard or something, then we need to be aware that we need to give them the incentive to make those nets, to make an irrigation drop by drop, and then that's something that tomorrow can bring income that will satisfy. And if you make him a freezer, he'll be able to place his product, so he can live off it. So it's one of these theoretically nicely-rounded stories, but this law is an opportunity to talk about it that way. Because if we're not going to deal with the prevention of certain things, there are some things we simply can't stop. What happened in Dubrovnik or Hvar the other day cannot be prevented. It just happened and it's over. But there are certain things that work as well as in some other cities that might not have happened at such an extent. But what we can do now is ask ourselves and you whether we can secure in the budget a billion, a billion and a half kuna each year to cover the potential consequences of elemental disasters. Very difficult. If we can help with the insurance, we can even help the Ministry of Agriculture plan to help secure agricultural products. But how are we going to help our fellow citizens secure their family homes? So that's the same big question. Because you can't from someone, unfortunately, wages are what they are, a consumer basket or a family basket, however you want it to be, and the question is whether they can afford that insurance. So there are a number of questions, but also this law, and that will end my debate gives us ways to solve some things and opens up space for us when we discuss some other laws to look for a slightly different solution. And Croatian waters. See how much money is spent per year to maintain the land areas. What about when the flood happens? Whether or not 4,5 years of work should be intervened in a specific place. So raise your loans, do it in one year, and in the next 4, 5 years, what you were going to invest, you're paying off the loan, but you solved the problem, there won't be much trouble, and there won't be a lot of damage in the field. And we could talk about this as much as we want, but we just have to be as aware as the home budget, you can spend as much as you have, and you can make a yard as much money as you have money. However, today we have heard many things here. And there's one more thing I want to say, if anyone in this assembly spends time defending their laws, it's Minister Maric. And I think that some of today's observations at his expense from some others that are very, very difficult to see in the assembly when they were ministers are not correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96550	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I was the first to commend Minister Marić on the last law, I am sorry now that I cannot do it again, but good. You've touched a lot of things, the climate changes, we absolutely agree, one big problem is house insurance, so apartments and other assets. But I'd concentrate on what you said about agricultural production, but we talked a lot about it. So absolutely agree, prevention is important. But in order to have what you were talking about, so the irrigated area, the crops that are in one place, so that, which, which can generate profit, then we have to achieve some other preconditions that are not regulated by this law, which is a combination, irrigation, and then third by me, insurance. But we have situations, unfortunately, here's to say... A major irrigation procedure that we don't have a single connection to yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, before we engage in major investments, we should probe the market and see if there's any interest in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96552	Mr. Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96553	So look, colleague Hajdukovic, when we're discussing this issue this way, I don't see at all how we can have different thoughts. We can only depend on who comes from which area, maybe just a little different to rank priorities. If we are to honestly discuss this subject, not politically and ultimately, and your debate and replicas with my colleague Lipoščak and I are going in this direction. We think exactly the same way. So if we're talking about sushi then we can't talk about that drought, we'll pay for the damage if we could prevent it because we have huge water potentials and we could do irrigation. So I'm saying that this law opens up a number of other issues that we need to discuss when then, when that item of the agenda is here in this House of Commons and then when we get the budget and the financial plans of individual extra- budget users, then we need to discuss why you didn't do it, why this or that is your priority. Well, then it would be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96554	Thank you very much. And now the closing word will be held in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the SNAG by Mr. Ivan Pernar. I'm afraid you can't be filmed here, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96555	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I would like to point out the problem of the damage that happens in the Croatian forests. It was a strong storm, a strong winter, and it came to be hatched, and watch out for this amount, a million cc's of wood, or trees. And what happened? People who, have, are part of the wood industry, they were supposed to get logs from the Croatian forests, but from the story I had with a representative from the Croatian Forests and with a man who owns his sawmill they explained that they were actually these broken corpses of which, unfortunately, part of which was partially or significantly rotten, or damaged, they sold sawaws, as Class I tree although it was not the first class because they were damaged. And then they explained to me that the advertising system in the Croatian forests works this way. You sign that you're taking over a Class I tree even though it's not a Class I tree. And you have to pay for that tree as if it were class I and then it's a record-making process and it's the record that determines that any tree in truth has been damaged, etc. and then you seek some compensation with the Croatian forests where they deliver or go to compensate for your damage. But why is that a problem? The problem is that the system works the way it pays, so it complains later. So it's already in the supply of the wood itself that you should have said, the person who gives the tree right away say this is unfortunately not a class tree, this is a damaged tree, and it's paid, I don't know by how much, by a cube less than a Class I tree, but as I explained, that's not the case. Now, I asked the man who had to buy that tree, I asked, but then why did you agree to buy that tree that was damaged and betrayed as Class I. Well, he says to me you know, he says if I don't want to accept that tree, take it, then they'd tell me, sir, we'll cut you down in that amount for next year. So what's this about? Wooden raw materials don't have enough, and then if you refuse to take that tree damaged, then they tell you well, but it's reducing your volume and you can't actually get the raw material anymore. And the other problem is, they've explained as some kind of weighted price, mostly, as if it can't get a discount, or that you just have to pay something actually that isn't worth it. And that's sad. And as for the state itself, explained counterpart Maras a shocking case that a fire had eaten the vineyard in China and that the woman had fulfilled the claim for compensation for the damage. And why is the case embarrassing? Because the fee for that request had to pay 70 kn and it received 55 kn in damages. So it was minus 15 kn. But what's the biggest circus in? Well, the biggest circus is that those witches who were supposed to determine what a shame it was, you know how much they got for their work? Do any of you remember? 4500 kn. So, the one who had no damage at all is an eyewitness and the damage earned 4500 kn and the woman who ran out of vineyards got 55 kn. And I know you're going to convince me, Mr. Pernar, that system is normal, but I guarantee you, i.e. Not to guarantee, but to see from the plane, that this system is not normal, it can't be normal, it can't be normal and it has to change. Here, let me just tell you the information exactly what this is about. It's opened up to me now, she says, the state has paid a woman from Kistanje 55 kn fire damage, she says, thank them for making fun of the poor. And the stories go like this, Milica Kosovic of Kistanj, for example, received 55 kn of compensation for the restoration of her fire, and in the fire burned 1,500 cane of the vine. I paid more for the papers I had to take out and show what it was, she told HRT. Only one leaf costs 70 kn Thank you, but... [[Time, Mr. Pernar.]] Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96556	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Otherwise, I will now tell you what we will continue on Wednesday 10 October 2018, with the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So a very important topic, you pass it on to your colleagues because there's one delegate here, I guess, from every party and I'll see you Wednesday. Session interrupted at 13.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-05-0.u96557	Proposal for a Law on easing and removing the consequences of natural disasters, first reading, P.Z. No. 428. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law on the mitigation and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that with 90 votes for and 10 abstentions, the conclusion was reached that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. We are now going to an independent representative, respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
