ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119916	... The issue of the development of renewable energy was first regulated by the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and a highly efficient cogeneration that entered into force on 1 January 2016. [[Specially enabled.]] The adoption of the law is based on the European... energy and environmental legislation or directives that promote the development of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Before the adoption of this special law, the issues of renewable energy between 2007 and 2015 were regulated by the Energy Act as the roof law of the energy sector and by several sublegal acts. These sublaws and, in particular, through the tariff system, the issue of purchasing electricity from renewable energy sources through Feed-in tariffs was regulated. Since 2005, however, the important document on which it rests and this law are guidelines on state aid for environmental protection and energy for the period 2014-2020. In accordance with the guidelines provided, the buy-in price can only be obtained by smaller power production plants while the aid can also be granted in the form of a market premium for larger projects which Member States consider to contribute most to the environmental objectives and economy. It is important to stress that projects can only be awarded this right after a public tender has been conducted. Thus, the law adopted in 2015 introduced certain innovations affecting the incentive and setting up of an eco-balance sheet group, so until then the required obligation of the electricity purchaser from the Croatian fixed-price energy system operator was to be abolished as of 1 January 2017. However, market conditions and the lack of timely adoption of sub-legislative acts, i.e. delaying the start of work of an eco-stabilisation group, have not created a perspective for the full opening of the electricity market in this segment. The objective of these amendments is to establish a balance between the full opening of the electricity market and the sustainability of the system of payment of the incentive guaranteed electricity price produced from renewable energy sources in the incentive system by gradually releasing the supplier's purchase obligation. It is proposed that this share be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the first regulation would be adopted by 2019. The opening of the market also requires the establishment of an eco-balance sheet group by the end of the year. The stricter rules concerning planning and deviation from production plans are introduced as an element essential to the sustainability and functioning of the system. Within the Eco-balance sheet group, balances will take place between producers who are entitled to a guaranteed purchase on the basis of the contract with CROTE. The obligation applies to all privileged producers producing electricity and plants having an installed power greater than 50 kilowatts. This is an additional change from the first reading where the proposal to raise the border from 30 kilowatts to 50 kilowatts is important since it is the upper power defined by microcogeneration plants. All details related to the eco-balance sheet system will be defined by the end of the year. The change from the first reading also refers to the upper limit of the plant power which will be able to compete for the guaranteed premium. So this border with 30 kilowatts was raised to 500 kilowatts, as far as the State aid guidelines allow. As has been established so far, the government has decided by the regulation on quotas for certain technologies to receive some type of support here is primarily considering the production of electricity that is in the function of industrial and agricultural production. In particular, it is important to highlight the importance of biogas plants to assist farmers and to implement so-called "counsel" plants. Nitrate Directives and wood processing industry that will achieve more efficient production. The law also adopts changes concerning citizens and their participation in the energy transition. The category of self-supply facility and the customer of the self-supply facility shall be introduced. While the existing provisions on a customer with their own consumption do not change whether it is a household or an entrepreneur of a category of self-supply facility are exclusively intended for households. Who wants every household he's got, for example? the solar power plant during the calendar year if it does not produce more than spends the right to pay compensation for the use of the network and renewable energy sources only on excess energy consumption. This measure is primarily intended for citizens living all year round in their decision-making facilities to install a solar power plant applied to their needs. The aim is to enable those who primarily use the energy produced during the calendar year to settle the balances relating to the different monthly production opportunities and the necessary consumption. However, if overproduction is found at the annual level at the end of the calendar year, these customers will automatically be classified in the group of those with their own production that are balanced at monthly level. Of the other things provided for in the amendments but defined in the context of the first reading, it should be mentioned that the issue of competitions for the right of service and the right to build a production plant using renewable energy sources or high efficient cogeneration on state land is in line with the amendments to the laws governing and making available state property. The Government Regulation will address this issue in more detail and will put the potential of renewable resources on state land in a clear, transparent and non-discriminatory manner in place for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It should be pointed out that this procedure does not in any way imply the automatic allocation of incentives as was the case in the previous model. Furthermore, the Regulation will regulate the register of renewable energy sources, cogenerations and privileged manufacturers. The register is an extremely important element of the transparency of work, and the relevant information lists more participants in the process and public insights are given to all citizens for any project system of renewable sources. The register is also part of the obligation under EU legislation, national spatial data infrastructure and serves also for the purpose of reporting on the progress of the Republic of Croatia in the segment of the development of renewable sources. All privileged producers and the acquisition of status and other elements related to plants and the production of renewable energy sources on highly efficient cogeneration will be entered in the register. Therefore, it is proposed that the issues governed by the applicable law should have the legal force of the Regulations, so that the regulation already mentioned and the regulations on use will be adopted while only the register will be governed by the Regulation. We believe that these amendments and amendments to the law will create good foundations for further investment in renewable energy sources and a highly efficient cogeneration that will not additionally burden the sectors of entrepreneurship and citizenship. It is also important to note that these amendments have also taken into account the policy elements that the EU will implement by 2030. It is important to stress that this will also contribute to the proposed amendments and additions to the Energy Efficiency and Mechanisms Act to be established and that for the first time these laws are considered through synergy in terms of achieving the environmental objectives of the primarily reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119917	I thank the Secretary of State. Now it's replicas, first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119918	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary, the MOST Club has given the Microsolars Act, which is much more open to citizens, for a better social picture. We know it's a huge amount of money we spend on heating, social need for these citizens and households. I do not see any reason why this model that is more open to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is not given up for debate and for you to accept this model and not this model that you will encourage for example. projects as they tried to be pushed by Minister Buric's wife, such as the thermal power plant on Peru or similar projects. I think we have enough sun, that other countries use these resources much more and that there are a lot more wind parks that go into foreign investors' pockets, a billion and a half kuna a year, for that money we subsidise, we could put free microsolares in all of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119919	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119920	Thank you for asking... Representative Bulj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The intensity of this law is precisely what you said, to allow all citizens to make good use of renewable energy sources and this Self-supply Act is absolutely going in that direction and we believe in the Government that this is a much, much better solution than what you have proposed in your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119921	Second replica, dear colleague Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119922	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. European Commission for Energy Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič said Croatia could receive about 30 gigawatts of energy from the sun and wind, together with hydroenergy and LNG terminal, become the energy hub of Southeast Europe and could become an exporter from importers. What do you think, among other things in the structure of renewable energy sources in Croatia, 65% makes firewood, biomass, biogas, 29% hydroenergy and only 6% wind, the sun, remains negligible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119923	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119924	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The intensity of this law is to present as much renewable energy as possible in the energy mix of the Republic of Croatia and to reduce imports. As you know, we import 42% of electricity, up to that 14% of imports from Krško power plant which we think is actually energy produced by a power plant owned by HEP but net imports are 28%. So this law aims to install as many renewable energy sources in Croatia as possible to achieve what you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119925	Dear colleague Dobrović, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119926	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, yes, so the goal is to raise the share of renewable energy sources and allow citizens to do it in a much simpler way as you say. However, the key thing for this implementation is the way of reckoning, as far as I know, the law says and so debated that it will be a monthly reckoning, therefore, not an annual one as you are now. So these are important differences, because monthly accounting especially for the sun that we know we have seasonally large oscillations is a pretty big burden on so-called. the feasibility or cost-effectiveness of those units that citizens themselves invest. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119927	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119928	Thank you, Mr. Dobrović, we have clearly explained in the introductions, so they, those plants that are self-supply means that if they do not produce more than they spend, means that they produce less or the same than they spend on an annual level or settlement at an annual level and for any surplus that they spend on the network will pay for the network. Those who do not, or who are, produce more than what, what they spend will then be transferred to the system to settle on a monthly basis and clearly will have a more unfavourable price of that energy delivered. So our goal is to stimulate those who actually produce it for their own needs and, moreover, with an additional incentive on which we plan through the fund in terms of capital investment of these same ones to make significant savings happen to citizens in terms of their electricity produced or consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119929	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119930	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The sad truth is that, for example, in Pula, solar panels were produced almost 50 years ago, and today, such production in the Republic of Croatia almost does not exist. The wrong policy, above all, of the HDZ government since 1990, has led us to the situation that renewable energy can only be achieved by significant incentives coming from state funds, which means out of the pockets of all citizens. My question to you is, and with respect to the fact that we really need to increase the share of renewable energy sources in total electricity production and all other forms of energy consumption in the Republic of Croatia, what will be the consequence of this law for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or whether this law will lead to an increase or a reduction of accounts that Croatian citizens will have for electricity and do not me Just talk about investments that will [[Intruder: Thank you.]] One of them has in solar or other cells. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119931	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119932	Thank you, dear parliamentary representative of the coat of arms. This law will definitely help citizens to have cheaper electricity because all those who install it will absolutely have savings of between 20 and 30 percent and more than what they spend today when they take electricity from the network. So we have no reason to doubt that this law will not do that, if you refer to whether or not we have provided for this law to raise any compensation in the sense that it would raise electricity prices, we are not, those fees that are now available are the ones that are sufficient for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119933	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119934	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, for not speaking at all about what I asked him, I asked him very clearly whether this law would lead to an increase, not taking the opportunity of citizens to install solar cells or others, and he was talking about it, so I would ask you to warn if you are already responding to specific answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119935	A fellow coat of arms didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, you know that very well, but I won't be giving a warning now because I think the way you said it doesn't deserve a warning. So let's move on, colleague Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119936	Thank you very much. The Honorable Secretary of State is certain today that, in the context of these changes and additions of the law, we would talk about some of the details that may have not occurred in the past that we have. I would once again warn, so what was done during the government where Minister Vrdoljak was implementing energy policy is today what you are correcting. It's actually trying to get through this government to iron out all those obligations that are left. And that's exactly the problem, that we're talking about the law now, and we're not really talking about the starting base, the starting base was the wrong way to run energy policy where we see that the citizens at the end of the conversation are the other group that has the least benefit from renewable energy sources. If we were to stream all the benefits that come to those investors who have made high profits, primarily on wind power plants, and transfer it to citizens, we would certainly have huge support here today, like this we're just hiding events from the past, and hopefully the citizens will forget and hope that they won't. And I'll warn you about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119937	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119938	Dear Representative Panenić, I would not agree with you that we, under quotes, are ironing some of Mr Vrdoljak's moves here today, because it is the fact that today we are simply making changes in the sense that the law is even better because it is already in line with the European Directive in 2014. And after Mr. Vrdoljak, there were a few other ministers who could have done the same thing, what you're saying, by chance you were the one, so I just can't understand why we're always going back on the subject, let's try to be constructive in a way that we all together make this law as good as possible, and we're in the process of aging this law we've respected everything that we could by you Parliamentarians and by the interested public, and we think this law is a really good solution. And let's finally go a little bit and look into the future, let's not keep turning what it was when it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119939	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119940	Thank you, Chairman, I would like to comment so we are not completely satisfied with this law, it took much stronger not to say that we should have planned and achieved momentum in the development of renewable energy sources, especially for households at least 10 years ago. I'm going to ask you a question about this register, whether everything in the register is public or one part is protected for data protection and is only available by the competent authorities and another thing about whether the dates of decommissioning will be introduced, when a facility goes into decommission, when it serves its life, whether that date will be entered or permanently deleted from the register.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119941	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119942	Thank you. As far as the register is concerned, what is prescribed by the regulation and regulation must be in the register, it is up to everyone and will be made publicly available, as far as I know and today it is publicly available to all. The fact that some part of the participant isn't an up-to-date rule is what we're going to do with those laws literally make them do it up-to-date and not, with someone... And as far as deocmission is concerned, we will simply prescribe other regulations relating to decommissioning, that is, to the disposal of that type of waste, electronically or already, which means it will be treated by laws dealing with it, that is the Waste Act and all other laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't see any problem with how it's all summed up. So you today when you take down a simple chandelier in your condition, you know how you have to take care of it, so it'll be worth it for the plants that are electronic plants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119943	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask the committee's rapporteurs if they want to take the floor. Comrade Sincic, here you are, president of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119944	Thank you, Chairman, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament discussed this law at the 38th session as an interested working body. In the proposed final draft of the law, as it is said, a series of changes have been made in relation to first reading and, among other things, the power of production plants that can use the incentive, guaranteed by a ransom price, has been increased with so far 30 kilowatts, to 500 kilowatts. Also prescribed is the obligation to pay compensation for members of an eco-balance sheet group, whose connection power of the production plant exceeds 50 kilowatts. A new category of final customers is defined, el. Energy, user of the supply facility itself. It is also in line with which households will be able and energy from their own facilities will be used for their own needs, or consumption, which will not be in the system of payment obligations for VAT where they will not be considered an electric producer. Energy. The debate followed, I will highlight some of the most important elements, so the debate warned that the Republic of Croatia is in the last place when it comes to restored energy sources, especially those photovoltaic types. An additional interpretation and assessment of the extent to which the amendment of this law will enable the number of Ns of these installations, which is also in the function of energy efficiency, has been requested by the applicant. It was also noted that the issue of increasing the share of renewable energy use coincides with many other commitments undertaken by the Republic of Croatia under the Paris Agreement and other acts. The proposer pointed out that according to the applicable law, the response to installing these installations was less than expected, therefore less than expected, especially in the case of natural persons whose installation of the plant was not paid within an acceptable period. It was estimated that it took 15-20 years for investments in a power plant of 3-5 kilowatts to be paid, and for entrepreneurship, the deadline was somewhat shorter. This information has been provided by the applicant. Therefore, these amendments and additions introduce the concept of self-supply, as we have said, and the Proposer believes that the number of users will increase, i.e., no. installation and that's the main intensity. In the discussion of the return on investment, therefore... For these installations, therefore, as we have mentioned is about 20 years. However, it is certainly dependent on technology to define that deadline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The applicant's representative further explained that, in the context of these amendments, the article has been amended. 44th Law to ensure better cost-effectiveness of these installations. So, the problem was that exactly when you're supposed to return money one such installation, the facility, just then you should go into decommissionation and as a solution to that, Art. The 44th Law is changing. So, after the debate was held, the committee, with 5 votes in favour, and 3 votes abstention, decided to propose a meeting of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119945	The other board presidents are not answering, so I'm opening the debate, and the first is the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119946	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected secretary of state with a fellow colleague and a colleague. The goal for all of us is that in the Republic, we have as many buildings built that use renewable energy sources and highly efficient cogeneration, while at the same time working these plants through the price of el. The energy costs as little as possible. By observing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Elections of Energy and Highly Efficient Cogeration, we must start from the founding state and respect the obligations that have already been made. Therefore, in order for the incentive system to be sustainable, it is proposed to prescribe that suppliers are el. the energy required by the operators to purchase a certain share, expressed in the procedure in the net delivered el. Energy, privileged producers, while the remaining share of the total net delivered el. the energy, the privileged manufacturers, the market operator. The transitional period until the full opening of the market was planned for the next 3 years to open 30% of the market, the second 30 more and the difference would be taken over by suppliers from the horns at a price of 0.42 kn per kilowatt hour. The issue of the collection and accounting of funds for the payment of incentives is being settled, in order to prescribe the possibility of the collection of cash for payment, from the sale of the guarantees issued, the origin of the el. energy produced in the installation of privileged producers in the incentive system. There are rules on how to download electricity from final customers with their own production depending on whether it is a final customer with its own production and category of entrepreneurship or household. Compared to the first reading in the final proposal, an amendment has been added, therefore, to increase the upper limit of the connection power to which the production of electricity from renewable sources is encouraged, guaranteed by a ransom price from only 30 kilowatts to 500 kilowatts so far, with the aim of expanding application to a larger number of installations of different types of technologies, in order to have a positive impact on the development of certain technologies and industries as a whole. An upper limit has been raised from 30 to 50 for members of the Eco-Bilkan Group who are not obliged to pay compensation, the self-supply facility user is defined, so the household is a self-supply facility user if it spends more or equal of the electricity delivered to the network in the calendar year. The aim is to enable those who use produced energy to align the balance during the calendar year. The intensity is to increase the number of installations in the final customer of the household category, without increasing the funds for the payment of incentives and that this is a function of increasing energy efficiency. In order to make the final proposal of the Law more effective and to reduce the obligation to pay compensation for certain categories of entrepreneurs, the HDZ Club has submitted several amendments. With the first amendment, we propose amendments, to allow the law to be applied to all countries including the countries of the energy community except the Republic of Croatia, or to the Member States of the European Union. The second and third amendments propose to regulate the system of compensation for renewable energy and cogeneration in such a way as to amend this article for certain categories of entrepreneurs the possibility of paying that fee in the amount of less than the amount established for other categories of payment obligations, and of course all in accordance with the applicable rules on State aid for environmental and energy protection. The fourth amendment only provides that the Regulation on the use of renewable energy sources and cogeneration in force remains in force until the new Regulation. The fifth amendment is related to the pretext that, instead of words from a moment of time, the sixth amendment has been proposed to extend the deadline for the adoption of a Regulation on the share of electricity of privileged producers which are obliged to purchase suppliers at a regulated ransom price, since it is certain that, for objective reasons, an initial deadline of 15 December 2018, it will not be possible to respect. Furthermore, as amended in Article 43, it is prescribed that matters of setting and paying a reduced amount of compensation for renewables and cogeneration will be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry, this amendment proposes to set a time limit for the adoption of the same Regulation. Here is the amendment that the HDZ Club has submitted, of course it will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119947	The second club is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague, Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119948	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I welcome the representatives of the Ministry and, of course, all my colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. Why is this issue important, therefore, of renewable energy sources and of course high-performance energy? We need to find the answer, so I think it's important that we all know it together, it's connected to the very serious records we see in the environment. So, energy policy is experiencing changes administratively based on the strong records we have, so I will only mention the problem of global warming, which has been seen as perhaps the dominant or primary problem of today's environment, see how the concentration of greenhouse gases is changing, so, unconstitutional growth, carbon dioxide, they're at 280 pre-industrial times, they're over 400 today, and despite the efforts they've been making for over 30 years, that increase is unconstitutional. It's not the only gas, there's methane, there's nitrogen oxide, there's different other compounds, but the question is carbon dioxide, it's dominantly linked to a major imbalance in fossil fuel consumption and of course energy is a dominant factor. So the energy sector is the primary contributor to greenhouse gas emissions and that's why we're talking about renewable energy sources, which is why there are policies going to change the energy structure. Although we are now reduced to Europe, so we are a member of the European Union, we have long been candidates, we follow policies, the first one was adopted, the first significant 2007, so the European 2020 strategy with known targets of 20-20-20, so they have committed by 2020, so we are talking about the position of 2007 to 2009, by 2020, the share of renewable energy sources has to be increased to 20%, carbon dioxide emissions from the energy sector have been reduced by 20%, and the efficiency of the energy sector has to be raised by 20%. Then soon in 2014, the 2030 strategy policy came in, and the figures were tightened, so by 2030 40% of carbon dioxide emissions should be reduced by a minimum of 27%, increased, achieved share of renewable energy sources, as well as 27% minimum, a minimum increase in energy efficiency. Today we're talking about so-called. ... In 2050, these are guidelines and account is taken of 80-95% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector compared to 1990. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are very serious numbers, if someone thinks it's 2050 away, then look to the children who come, it's not far from them, it's close to them, and we're responsible today to implement policies in a way that they have the same opportunities to live, develop as we do today. So these are the reasons why I am talking about these topics and why we stress the need for the energy sector to change. We produce, of course, energy and we can talk about primary energy, but when we talk about the energy system, we mean el. Energy, production of el. energy and every country has its own structure. It is known that Croatia is rich in hydropower and that is why there is no problem in principle, as some others have with regard to certain goals. However, this may be the reason why Croatia is lagging behind, so when these large hydropower plants are shut down that were built 30, 50, 60 or 100 years ago, we have the oldest hydropower plants that are over 100 years old. So, we're on... I don't know, people from HEP know it's 110 years old, so we really have a huge tradition and a little after Niagara and the turbine's code is spinning. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what have we done now in transition? Very little and only 12.68% of energy past large hydropower plants is produced from renewable energy sources, solar, wind etc. That's a little bit. So our changes are too slow, but our second problem is that when we look at the structure of these renewables, then the vast majority refers to wind energy, 63% of all 4% of solar energy. And when someone looks at our position, then someone will say there's someone crazy. So it's completely crazy that in Croatia, only 65.5 gigawat hours were produced. The energy of photovoltaic sources is only 0.51%) el. energy produced in Croatia, i.e. 0.05% of energy from the sun in Europe generated. Perhaps a convenient comparison, by the head of the population, we all have 14 kilowatt hours per person, per unit, therefore, per citizen, while countries are in the environment, say the Slovenians, which are the northern land, they have almost 10 times more. The Italians, the Greeks, are 25, not 25 times as many. So we have a fat lag actually that statistics is the legitimacy of bad policies. We ran a bad energy policy. It is definitely we can subdue, okay, we do not have to ride by it now, however, as we are going to change whether this law foresees enough speed, whether it allows change or not, by and our court at Club Mosta, because we have also given our proposal, we believe that it could be given much more, in order to enable much greater and stronger change, i.e., that citizens who are interested not only in citizens but also small entrepreneurs, therefore, who are interested in investing their money in renewable energy sources, on their roof, can do so in a way that the return of investment is faster. However, they limit it, of course not as strong, but are still limited, because if the accounting periods are adjusted in one way or another, then it has direct repercusion to the rapid return of investments. I think our strategy, here it was now in the debate of the Green Paper, it is as predicting a huge increase in renewable energy sources, so it is 3000 megawatts by 2030. However, it is too weak for Croatia. It's definitely too weak, because it's being considered as if it's some big power plant that we're going to be building for 10 years now. So people, just give it to the citizens, so we have hundreds of thousands of citizens who are willing to put it on their roof and in reasonable relationships regulated with the supplier to benefit from it. So they're doing a lot of good to the state because they're helping her meet her goals. So we have serious obligations, so the Paris Agreement and I say by 2050 it's going to be a huge reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the '90s. This cannot be done without more active engagement in terms of increasing the share of renewable energy sources. Yeah, well, we've given an amendment that changes the regulation of the monthly law and we suggest that it be an annual level. This is particularly important for photovoltaic systems, because it is clear that during the summer months people will have excess energy and they will deliver it. The surplus is presented as a problem for suppliers, it is, to one extent, a problem, but the direction of the energy system must go in this direction to increase the absorption capacity of that energy. So reversible hydropower plants don't have to be huge units, they can be less power. So we have a very favourable geographical position, great height differences, let's look at what the Austrians are doing with excess energy, of which they profit extremely, and there's no reason not to do the spell with us. So that shouldn't be the reason for the restriction that here, we can't allow more than 7, 8, 10, 12% of the energy produced in this way because it destabilizes the network. The important segment is that people, citizens, users, consumers who become consumers immediately iron or cover a part of their needs, we know that today's peak consumption has just become in summer because the climate unit has practically every house and this matches one another, so we would have to make it possible for us to make a significantly faster line of these units, this law allows it at a sufficiently good level. And finally these sublegal acts, I hope that they will be passed quickly, so within a short time, because the law and this good that is offered here will not be implemented without them being brought up and quickly regulated by those issues that need to be regulated. Here, so thank you for your attention and your goodbyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119949	Thank you, too. We're going to individual debates now, first mate Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119950	Thank you very much. We are talking about a very important law that would have to bring our citizens well-being, but the fact is that either there is no interest in using the natural goods that we have and that microsolar energies to serve our citizens and to remove the monopoly on energy, because we know that if microsolares were set up and not wind parks that were of interest to foreign investors who get billions and a half of kuna per year, that we invested that money in microsolares, today we would have independent families and not have a monopoly on the market of certain groups that extract money from the Republic, it was passed during the Minister of Vrdoljak, once again I will repeat it during the Minister of Vrdoljak in the Government of Zoran Milanović, at the last session as a social measure, and in fact a billion-and-half kuna we pay from the pockets of citizens who go to foreign investors or who know who at the expense of our citizens. Croatia is a rich country, we have sunny days in abundance and we have here as counterpart Dobrović said, minimally or almost simply in prominences can measure mycosolares and solars that we use the Sun's energy. The aim of this is clear, the goal is to make it clear to the monopolies, the lobbies have done the job, so we have a number of wind parks as renewable energy sources and not a single part of that windwinder is from the Republic of Croatia. Everything is imported while the microsolars given by MOST independent lists, means setting up microsolars on the roofs of our houses, family houses, again, we know that half a billion kunas local, regional and state self-government gives, subsidized heating to the poor, socially endangered families, to invest it annually, could be about 8,000 to me, 9000 make a 5 kW microsolare on our houses and roofs of our socially endangered people. In this way, any part would encourage the economy, encourage employment, encourage construction because every part of the microsolars could be made in the Republic of Croatia and in this way would essentially increase investment and create independent families in order to be a monopoly of certain groups above, there would be no monopoly group on energy, however, the fact is that it was neither an interest to do so because if it were an interest, it would not have been under social criteria that a subsidy made by Minister Vrdoljak so... After that, pushing harmful thermal power plants in the area and Neretva, did'Ploč, later on in the area of the Chetin area, Peruce, which would also be only harmful to our citizens and should pay more expensive electricity to be harmful to the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about this law, it would be good to mention and ask the question to you distinguished secretaries, what about the energy reconstruction of family houses means what is allowed from the EU, we don't use 30 million euros, we don't call for tenders, 30 million euros, which means 228 million kuna, somewhere it's 230 million kuna, which is why we don't do it because we know if we protect it, it's a roof renovation, it's a facade, it's an oven on pallets and a number of other protection houses, apartments, and by these means, that you've opened those tenders, and you can, you announced that they'll do it in 6 months. And you can do it now, I know that the euro elections are parliamentary but now it's winter, you can already make that 230 million kuna money. I don't see any reason why these competitions aren't scheduled. I repeat once again that we need to use our meanings, wealth, which is the sun, so we have, so pelate, so we can tree, not only be exporting to the logs, and that others have profit, other states are creating additional value and that later we get that profit back. I believe we have numerous potentials, and my most important is an independent family. I repeat, a billion-and-a-half kuna we pay the wind power subsidy, we subsidize as a renewable energy source to foreigners, for 3-4 years that money that we invested in solar energy, of which we have to change politics, at every household in the Republic of Croatia we could make micro solarium and at the institutions. So it's huge amounts, so in 4 years, it's about 6 billion kuna, a huge amount goes into foreign pockets, and it's irrevocably investing in other countries, and it's not investing in the Republic of Croatia that money, to the detriment of our citizens, mainly these poor areas, because all citizens are paying that subsidy, that, this subsidized part of renewables. Once again, the Independent Lists Bridge has given the Law into procedure, we've even been able to show it in the Parliament to see the film exactly how much savings it is, how much it would mean for my Dalmatia, for the whole of the Republic of Croatia. Well in Finland, we have more solar, micro solar, set than in the Republic of Croatia, and there are more sunny days in us, in our area, than in that part. Please, look at this Law, if you're uncomfortable with what we've suggested, sign it over to the esteemed secretary, suggest it and solve this problem for the benefit of our citizens, let's open this possibility to our citizens, because we're creating independent families. We'll have hundreds of thousands of energy producers, and that'll be our families, we won't have a monopoly of individuals. Let's set this up in legislation, so suppliers can distribute it the best way. This would solve social problems if we were to throw the people we are financing the heating and solve it, so there would be no more monopolies, but we would have a much richer family that would produce electricity on their facilities, that's what we have to do to our citizens and that's our obligation, but we have a wealth that we have in a year of sunny days and I think it's a minimum of minimum, we have people who produce all the solar parts, we have people who know it, it's going to increase the number of employees with this part where we're going to create independent families and there's not going to be a monopoly on energy, and in particular the favors of the interest groups in which the legislation helped the subsidies go to foreign countries and who know what way. So, in this way, by installing micro sunflowers, the Microsalari Act encourages the production of every microsalara, by setting microsalari, we create independent families and less poor families. I believe that this law which, behold, was then banned from showing it, and we have a technique through the film that we made, we have a technique in the Parliament, we consider if you are uncomfortable with the idea of a bridge of independent lists, you freely sign it, and you sign it, you or the Prime Minister, let it be prime minister, the elections are European, but we do it for the benefit of citizens, not for the benefit of foreign investors to subsidize in billions of kunas, what is being drawn out of it, the money that goes out, it is irrevocably invested in other countries, where it is invested, our young people are going. Help our families, strengthen our families, strengthen our energy system. Let's say a lot of monopolies and a lot of interested groups who are sucking us out, bloodsuckers who are sucking money out of the Republic of Croatia and investing in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119951	We have five replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Vranjesh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119952	I thank my esteemed colleague Bulj, since you are very active on this subject and you mention your proposal of the Microsolars Act, here I promise that I will study it and look at it, I think it is a very important topic, but I love it when our citizens know what the subject of this Law is, so today we have amendments and additions to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, a highly efficient cogeneration, so please, since we certainly know this concept here because we are discussing this point, to explain to our citizens what the process of cogeneration, what kind of energy is produced in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119953	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119954	So I know you're going to say that I have a high school, that I don't know anything about it, that I... know what I'm saying, and... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] He also had a high school. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your colleagues mock the shepherds, you question here, what you are here as a teacher, so I can explain to you what's going on. It's about the Microsolars Act where you, in Dalmatia, where your father is the chief, seems to me, can be very helpful to your citizens to have this Law to set up in the municipality of your building, where you come from, to be microsolars. You want to sort of degrade yourself all the time, you want to mention the shepherd, and the shepherds are, let's say, your fellow democracies, and the shepherds are the most successful people in the Republic, on the roof of the world, on the roof of the world, and we're a billion-and-a-half kuna, my dear lady, the Vrdoljak has allowed, the Minister, a billion-and-a-half kuna to give subsidies to wind power plants annually instead of investing in microsolars, and our people would produce it. What would I be telling you now? on the harmful project of the Perun thermal power plant [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119955	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119956	Your Honor, I believe that an officer has been injured. In 238, I don't want to insult anyone. We personally use solar panels, and I think they're very good and very important, concerns about the construction of a thermal power plant in our neighborhood and how we pointed out, but I think it's important that our citizens know what the bill is today, and I don't think it's any humiliation to ask a person or agent who's discussing a subject to explain the basics of a very simple term. which is located in itself [[Intruder: Thank you.]] a bill of law. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Vranjš.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119957	So, first of all, he wasn't hurt by his colleagues, Bulja, but I also don't think that colleague Vranesh insulted you by asking you to explain your views. So I'm asking you to take care of that, too. What? Don't throw your colleague Bulj, there was really no offense asked you by colleague Vranjesh to clarify your position, how you experienced it, that's your problem, but I can't because of any warning to express it or anything controversial. Just like you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119958	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bulj, you mentioned incentives, so energy poverty and you probably know that Croatia pays annually, so to combat energy poverty 200 million kuna, for ordinary electricity bills via voucher. What do you think happens to be chosen by another model, which is, say, help to give them tools, which is a photosolar panel of 10,000 units would be able to pay that money a year, and in a few years, solve the whole problem of what you think of such a single model that is clearly not recognized in the ruling administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119959	Thank you, reply to the replica, please colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119960	Now, that's a colleague of Dobrović's solution, and that's you and your colleague Ante Cikotic all of you who worked on the law we offered as a solution, that's a solution to the problem. 200 million kunas give subsidies to only the poor of our family, socially endangered, thus solving 9 million, and when we say how many local self-governments, 9,000 people, how many local self-government co-finances the heating of a tree is in what it adds at least that much. So 20,000 households would be solved in one year and by setting up these solar plants, which means photopanel, means what would solve, not only would these people no longer be socially endangered but they would be socially independent energy, and that would also encourage development, new jobs, investments, and whether any part of the photopanel can be produced in the Republic of Croatia and that's the engine of development of the Republic of Croatia on the natural wealth and capabilities of our companies to work, set up, Thank you. [[Intruder: Praise.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119961	.../incomprehensible... colleague Bulj. The next replica of counterpart Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119962	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bulj, I would also like your opinion on what the Secretary of State has actually stated that here we now have a third minister who deals with energy after the Vrdoljak who has actually reversed his entire system of renewable energy sources, we see that some solutions are trying to find. How many ministers should be required to repair the damage that has been done, well as the normal Croatian citizen can understand between these various terms that are very difficult to understand but at the sense of his account when he gets that re-renewable energy fee item he has to pay. Whether he's interested in the name of this law, he's primarily interested in who led to the fact that he's in such a situation and that he expects and I want to get something. Not only do I pay, I pay some companies outside that had political protection, but I want to participate and benefit from me and my family and my economy that I work on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119963	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119964	Well, of course, the decision of Vrdoljak's minister at the time was the most fired on the pocket by the most endangered layer, which means our citizens who pay the bills, because wind parks are subsidized at the highest possible amount as a renewable source, and that money is essentially going into foreign hands. Not a single section of wind parks in the windmills is from the Republic of Croatia, while the amount that we have directed for renewables would be for renewables. microsolares would be a solution right. And it can't be fixed by anyone, it's a billion kuna a year in the pocket of our citizens, a billion and a half kuna, he'll say no, it's out of the budget, and our citizens pay in the budget, it means a billion and foreign investors go into their pockets annually. Imagine that money is still invested in the construction of microsolars instead of giving subsidies to these foreign foreigners who know where they invest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119965	Thank you. Next replica Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119966	Dear fellow Bull, I have listened very carefully to you in your presentation and I must ask you one thing. As much as in Dalmatian Zagora, as in your neighborhood you saw a microsolar on the roofs of houses when we know that everything, based on the previous law, because today we are only discussing changes and additions, in fact only 115 people in the entire Republic of Croatia use incentives from renewable energy sources, all other incentives from these billions and by what you say they get are those who say billions go to the wind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119967	Thank you. A fellow Bull of choice, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119968	Thank you very much, I will immediately say that very little, no microsolars at all or solar panels, one of my fellow combatants is on the radio, so he intended to build an object where he would be means a freezer to buy fruit. He has set up 30 kW solar panels and has already 6.7 years of age he can't get any permission, the man is 100% disabled in the Homeland War, fighting for his family, he couldn't resist that quota, while they were breaking in, of course, giving Todorovic a box when he was giving them that box of Ledo, when he was giving the Vrdoljak the ice chest with which he boasted. It was then that Todorovic and that team they are now calling for. And that man who installed it means his money without any subsidies can't possibly get for that 30 kW slip into that quota. So what's happened to the stakeholders to the harm of citizens and individuals again, and that's huge damage to these people. and I can't win.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119969	The last replica of your presentation, colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Bulj, it is a shame that only 0.5% of the total energy produced wastes on solar energy. It is still a devastating fact for our Dalmatia that there is also a regional development, an energy agency in northwestern Croatia, that there is, however, I think it is doing a good job. And imagine Dalmatia doesn't have something like that. We have also proposed that our mayor of Split-Dalmatia County sit 4 mayors, 4 sunniest counties, to make one such energy agency from the region of Dalmatia. In particular, we in Vrgorec are doing a study of the transfer of a complete water supply system to solar panels, meaning renewable electricity sources because we all know one problem of the Dalmatian burn due to the configuration of the terrain that the price of electricity, that the price of water is the most affected and the price of electricity due to a series of pumps and over 50% actually affects. And we came up with another concept of solar city, and I hope that the other concepts will follow us, that is, hope that national funds will be found, so that they can replicate for such projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119971	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119972	Well, of course, yes, our leaders in Dalmatia, our mayors don't care because they're gonna think that we don't have any sun at all, that it doesn't matter to us. To them it's much more important are concessions of maritime good, how to market, how to coalition, how to assign to your coalition partner Ben, how to allocate the beach Gold War, how to draw money out of the pocket, how such an entire coast... They don't care if our citizens or you who pay as a local leader, local self-government or my much more expensive water because we have problems with pools that have to pump water, which we have to spend energy on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't care that there's more expensive water in our house than anywhere else. They don't care about Dalmatia. They're just using maritime goods and concessions to put in their pocket, which is why we don't have any agency down there, no one cares about energy, no one cares about solar, micro solars, families, and it's much more important to them that people are addicted to them and give them 500 kuna per year to vote for them as heating. And that's how they make people addicts... They don't care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119973	Thank you, Mr. Bull, thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here's my colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is a serious topic that we are talking about today means renewable energy sources. At the beginning, I will say that the party Change Croatia advocates democratisation of energy production, our Energy Committee, which has prominent experts for both hydrocarbons, hydroenergy, means other sources, renewable energy sources, believe it is necessary to democratisation the production of electricity. And if that makes it possible for the current law. We can immediately say that some small shifts have been raised, but it is not a democratisation, it is only a vision that something is happening or giving false hope to citizens that they will be able to be self-sufficient producers of electricity for their own needs and even excess energy. What's this about? According to one survey that ends in 10 years, around 18 billion kuna will be invested, invested and invested, paid to private wind power producers, let's say wind turbines. This is a typical example, and someone was already talking about it, one of the two debaters before me how I privatized the area of electricity production and it disrupts the democratisation we're looking for. And respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens who follow us, you well know how many years ago a certain group of close politicians took over all those hills in Dalmatia when you were driving and whose winds were windy. It's not just the Chinese wind power plants, the Spanish, they're a good part of our people who have been highly connected to political structures and are still today. And today's government this coalition government, its only task is to safeguard the interests that are acquired and to simply preserve this cartel that costs us every year. You know that we from the party change Croatia do not like to tell stories, do not like to make scenes, we speak with arguments and we simply offer solutions. Is there a standoff for what I'm saying, because these are very difficult statements? You see, the production of megawatts from this wind power plant, or renewable sources, costs us taxpayers about 860 kuna, means it is encouraged as the production of megawatts of HEP electricity costs about 300 kuna. Now I'm asking you and I'm going to conclude the story, so I'm going to say financially, it requires the Ministry to report to this House exactly how much it pays to wind power producers, this one, this one, that we have a concrete, concrete picture of what's going on. Why? Because the profits of the manufacturer above all electricity from the wind power plants are almost identical to the profits achieved by HEP and he produces electricity three times as much. Look, these are dangerous stories, not dangerous, but challenging attention. So why didn't someone put us in that group so we could be stockholders of wind power plants, for example? So why didn't he? But that's an area already occupied, and you can't get there. We can only mount our houses or cottages and God cheer you up, this other one is busy. But the party Change Croatia offers a solution, i.e. the right concept. What concept is that? You see, we have people moving out of rural areas, so these are Slavonia, Dalmatia, islands. What's the solution there? Our solution is that from farmers, farmers, the OPG and all those who have the country and want to work at the same time to produce food and on the other hand energy. This law allows them to produce for their own needs, and the secretary of state just now says, if they produce more, that they are in the network, then they will be detimized by practical ones. So you're texting in translation? If we are able, if a man is on an island in Slavonia, he can produce so much and so much el. More energy for us to take from him, not to import, that inside, you will punish him, why? So it can be imported, so those who hired the field can do it. You can wave your head all you want, but we've been watching this policy for 27 years. Let the telecoms go, they have the highest impulse prices. Let these produce wind energy, they're peeling us off with the most expensive subsidies we have to give. So enough of this party policy to change Croatia, when we take part in the responsibility for leading the new government, politics, we will immediately review all these contracts and bring this energy sector into order. So, we don't want to throw rocks under this law, we offer solutions. You see, back to the peasant, the O.P.G., to produce food and energy. So he'll make two choices, but this government won't let him produce extra energy, why? Well, that's reserved only for certain groups, which are individuals, which are well connected to politics. The peasants, the O.P.G., the people who live in rural areas, we can keep them there, so they don't have to run from our country, they can form, so on. Energy cooperatives, that people join in the production of el. Energy and heat, someone here said the opposition doesn't know what he's talking about, etc. They call HDZ opposition to the shepherds and so on. But let's talk about some more solutions. We from the party change Croatia, we are foreign solutions, we do not like circus making, we are serious people and in that sense we are programme leaders of opposition. What's the key problem with this law, it's not worth anything if you don't solve the financial model for people, how they're going to set up, say, solar ones that you're a little bit of allowing to produce more. Who's going to fund it for them? Whether or not the banks, whether or not people will be taking loans on interest rates 7, 8, 10% and not fools. There's not a word you're talking about. This would have to be taken over by HBOR, there would have to be loans of half a percent, 1% at the most, at 10, 15 years of age, therefore, but if it still means participation in this country, so there are various energy efficiency funds, etc. But not only that, someone here just said, they don't need any credit, they could have been all financed, instead of being given these privileges to groups, as much as money has been paid so far, that's a lot of billions. So how much of our beautiful Croatia has been robbed and taken billions of good stone remains and I as a university professor of economics cannot explain to myself how we still live. But I know we live first of all, because every other family has someone out there, people do two or three jobs, and people are struggling. Furthermore, what else is in the law? No good problem of recycling photovoltaic cells has been solved, so these are all areas where something needs to be done, there's not enough talk about it. In this context, I repeat that the party is changing Croatia, favouring democratisation of the production of el. Energy. Don't defend people as much as they produce, you encourage them to produce as much as possible. But you're not going to produce when you cross 300 or 500 kilowatts or megawatts, we're going to detimize you. Why? Do not favor stakeholders. And now answer me, Mr. Secretary of State or Minister or your Prime Minister, why does the term of office last 7 years? Please, I repeat that the citizens hear why the term of office of the Croatian Regulatory Energy Agency lasts for 7 years. In well-ordered countries, not more than five years, so isn't that designed to keep the interests of those before, who have made unfavourable contracts for all of us? That we're terribly expensive to pay for renewables that our heads hurt. Why didn't you make everything worse and more expensive? We change Croatia, it will review all these contracts and introduce order and, above all, democratisation the production of el. Energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119975	Thank you. We have one replica on your exhibit, this is colleague Ivan Kirin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119976	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Honorable Representative Lovrinovic. We're the '80s. They had 50,000 thermal collectors in the year, and in Germany they had 3,000. 13 years later, the production and application of photo-navigation and solar thermal collectors puts Croatia at the beginning of the EU. 2016. Croatia has installed 50.3 megawatt photopositories, Slovenia 259, Romania 1371 2047 Czech Republic, and Germany has 41340 Why am I telling you this? Because at the time of one government, I was not a HDZ participant in the conversation of simply installing such a facility. The answer was that the current produced here was too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119977	Thank you. Replication response. .../Intruder Kirin is not understood., the data suggests that production from photovoltaic power plants... The speaker does not understand.....up to 50 euros and in the case of non-renewable energy sources, depending on... The speaker's off. The replica was just, pick up the individual discussion, no problem at all, you can do more. Replication response. You can answer the individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119978	Dear colleague Kirin, I'm not here to tell you whether HDZ, SDP, whoever it was, we see traces that have left devastating in the energy field, so to understand me better, I don't have some, say, special reasons to cripple these, and I don't regret these. However, what I failed to say and here I am using the opportunity, HEP, imagine HEP, did not make any hydropower plant from the draft Croatian state, did not set up any wind power plant, did not set any serious solar field, had the past few years of billions for investment. We change Croatia, we have calculated that the activation of investments in the energy sector can raise GDP annually 1 to 1.5% just that. Therefore, here they need grown men both in the Parliament, so in the Croatian government, this is all another game, but it's a plaything game that is pulling other people's pockets and taking them from ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119979	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The following is colleague Sonja Cikotic, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119980	Honored chairman, respected ministry colleagues, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to say a few things, so the law on renewable energy and cogeneration, he's been in effect for a long time, these are the changes and additions we're discussing. So the Republic of Croatia will not start using renewable energy sources with this law, but we must say how Croatian citizens support them so far. So Croatian citizens, through the payment of electricity bills, spend about a billion and a half kunas through their account costs to pay off their incentives to those who have contracts for the privileged sale of electricity. We also need to know that one billion is paid to those same ones through a regulated ransom price from suppliers. We have to say and I'm interested in having the secretary of state answer me in the final presentation, does the ministry consider it and will it also be on its way to detimulating these incentive prices? So these producers that have big wind parks, they have a 14-year guaranteed price. No entrepreneur who sells apples, pears, I come from Slavonia, a farmer, every year when there is a harvest, waiting for the price of wheat, every year when it is harvested grapes, waiting for the price of ransom grapes. But those who have had the privilege of producing electricity from wind parks, they simply do not have to fear the risk. They're at the highest risk of their business if there's gonna be wind on the Maslenica. Imagine that risk. Every morning you wake up and think whether or not there will be a wind on the Maslenica. With this law, citizens fall into another plan, citizens fall into another plan because through this law there is no incentive, with this law there is no price perk. All of this has been used long before, because we need to know that only 115 citizens use the incentive from renewable energy sources. I'm also interested in having the secretary of state answer me through their final exposure whether it went into control of cogeneration plants that receive stimulating prices from renewable energy sources because we know that these prices are much higher then in the delivery of that electricity? As far as the Eu Funds are concerned, we are talking about encouraging electricity production, but we also need to rely on energy savings. Your ministry didn't realize this year's EU funds use plan and you failed 925 million kuna for it. The Republic of Croatia is poorer for these support, the Republic of Croatia is poorer for the economic growth that was just about to secure investment and the total government has not realised 2.7 billion kunas from what it planned. I am interested to see if you are also personally in contact with citizens and entrepreneurs who are working on energy savings because they are important to them, it is important that those who participate in the economic growth of the Republic of Croatia, who are employed, are reduced direct costs. Direct costs are those affecting the production of certain products, the provision of services and so on. We had two competitions scheduled, one was about energy efficiency in tourism and the other was about energy efficiency in industry. Your ministry has announced only 76 million kunas for energy savings in tourism and 20% of GDP comes from that same tourism. I would like to ask whether and whether you will increase the allocation that all those who have actually met the administrative conditions are given that support because we know one thing well, we are using EU funds poorly and poorly. We use them weakly and badly because of major administrative procedures. We are a country that invests in all thematic goals, to all extent, single out for everyone, so we also call for energy efficiency in tourism but only for 76 million kuna and by hotel it could be possible to report investments from 220 to 13 million kuna, so you calculate, if you reported 10 hotels of 10 million kuna, which is not a major investment at all, it is a renewed and energy-efficient 10 new hotels in the Republic of Croatia. You also encouraged energy recovery in the industry but in what way? In a way that you have opened only one competition worth 114 million kuna, all of those plants that deal with the processing industry and all of them could have been grabbed for 114 million kunas. There were aids from 350,000 to 20 million kunas, so if there are ten reported that again is about 10, 11, 12 million kuna per economic operator, if that economic operator is looking for a maximum, 20 million kuna, then it's only 5 economic operators. Please consider and increase the envelope, meaning because you have enough resources on that wheel and that all those who actually filed the application, who have crossed the thresholds, to enable them to finance, because it is extremely important for us in MOST, to make it easier for entrepreneurs to mean that these direct costs related to production, and certainly they are, and there is a large share of these energy costs. As far as family houses are concerned, they account for 40% of the consumption of total electricity in the Republic of Croatia. The family houses account for 65% of the residential fund in the Republic of Croatia. The competition, yes, should have been amended. The Directive has been amended. Why is the competition for energy restoration of houses that would provide the Croatian citizens with a new facade, new windows, meaning putting photosolars on roofs, condensation water heaters, planned only in the summer of 2019. The Republic of Croatia has been in the European Union for 5 years, and we have already had the means of EU funds available for 5 years. Why don't you do it? I also need to look back at my exposure when it comes to renewable energy sources of MOST independent lists he referred to in the legal procedure of the Electricity Act, and the government gave an opinion on it. She felt that the solarium, that they were outdated technology and that therefore, one of the reasons was, was rejected the proposal that came from the Most Club. You here normally propose solars, in the Island Law you have a regulated notion of a smart island. Smart island uses renewable solar sources. I must point out that 10% of citizens, because we are a social state, so socially sensitive should also be the government that implements measures and proposes measures, 10% of citizens are at risk of energy poverty. In 2016, 120 million kuna, according to data, stands out through vouchers, every month citizens, other citizens, stand out for those required citizens of 200 kuna vouchers. And what do you think about putting 3 kilowatts, 5 kilowatts in energy poverty for these people, depending on how much they spend on their bills, solars, and solve their problem once and for all. Is that really that hard? I also have data in 2016 from 13 counties, 35 million kunas were released from the heat, County, say Osijek-Baranja is the 5.5 million kuna for the heating of citizens, meaning 950 kuna or 850 kuna in some County, Osijek-Baranja County is 950 kuna, and citizens come for that heating, come for that voucher every year. What do you think about putting micro sunroofs on their roofs and solving their problem once and for all? So it's important that things change, but change for the benefit of the citizens. It's important that citizens know that every month they can look at their payments and remember those entrepreneurs at risk of their invaluability of investment, because you know what it's like, wake up in the morning and think about whether to blow the wind at Maslenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119981	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He's a colleague of Panenic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119982	Thank you very much. My colleague Cikotic, this is exactly how a certain law should be clarified and explained, and I am glad that you explain them, the law that should be in the process and I hope that they will then have and understand much more, but we have witnessed that the laws that are related to energy have always somehow passed in a way that the less public knows about them. Even then we had for, if you remember that last session of the Government of Zoran Milanovic when that famous decision was made, the fact that Mirela Holly had also warned the device about it and through the parliamentary debate that was going to happen, but then the debate didn't develop enough, and sometimes when they object that here in the Parliament we might be talking too loudly about it, but it's better that we talk too loudly today than that, in the future, we have to repair the damage that is happening through more governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119983	Thank you, buddy. Third replica. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119984	Dear colleague Tomislav Panenic. You must remember, because you've been following the energy sector, you've been acting as a high-ranking economy minister, you must remember those famous quotas that went missing since 01.01 every year when they were scheduled. So, right after that, the new year, the odds went away. Now citizens are only given crumbs, while citizens spend billions and a half of kuna each month from the pockets of citizens, from the pockets of entrepreneurs, and still the state gives them a regulated ransom price and we're giving them another billion kuna. I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's reply to see if there will be any detimulation for these producers who have raised wind parks, in which these wind parks did not share the domestic component but not a bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119985	Thank you. Third replica, colleague Slaven Dobrović, go ahead. That's also your third.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119986	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Chikotic. Now, according to your presentation, you've highlighted a series of elements and you've actually discovered the complexity of this area, or everything that the question of energy, renewable energy sources allows, so if there's an integrated policy going on here, then there's a huge synergy. So, not only changing the structure and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, not just having an appropriate impact on the network, stabilising because these are distributed energy sources, not just solving energy poverty problems, better exhausting European funds, therefore, esif funds that can be used here in a very smart way, quickly, therefore, you have listed everything, please Have we exhausted these possibilities with this proposal? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119987	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119988	Dear colleague Dobrovic, unfortunately, this proposal is not because we should have come a set of laws that would actually be in synergy with this proposal, which should have been interdepartmental cooperation. We need to know that today 300,000 children are in poverty, 10% of citizens are in energy poverty, and how these citizens are exactly going to invest in these renewable energy sources, you don't know that. There should have been one inter-resorship cooperation here, there should have been a final energy strategy, so that citizens know in fact what direction the Republic of Croatia is going to be and how to ensure that there are as few energy allocations as possible, because precisely multiple families have an increased need for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119989	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119990	Thank you very much. counterpart Cikotic, it is known that Croatian citizens for wind power plants i.e. Renewable sources, wind parks, foreign investors pay out of their pockets a billion and a half kuna. You also said the supplier pays billions of kuna, which means two and a half billion kuna + subsidies we give to our poor families from the budget is, only the state gives 200 million kuna + municipalities and cities of local self-government, regionally, it's huge money. In one year we could have started the production of solars, setting up, running this whole new job, not that people were leaving us, but obviously we have no will whether it's not the government's interest, or the county's, obviously we have people who are independent, energy independent, as many poor as possible, they share money and depend on them and thus get sources. But we must fight that ours families are independent. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119991	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119992	Dear fellow Bull, that's right. We must fight to keep our families and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as little as possible separate from their home energy budget, and we must also fight for all citizens to know and be publicly available information that it is those who pay for incentives, entrepreneurs, I say, who built wind parks and that the state, we will see, uh, there is no clear strategy in which they will advocate clean energy because we are obliged because we are in the European Community. Also, poor and poor EU funds are being used, so no tender for energy rebuilding of houses has been opened yet, amounts called for to boost energy or energy recovery in industry and tourism are all, not even 200 million kuna, which is extremely insufficient and insufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119993	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119994	Thank you very much. Mrs Cikotic, you have here in your discussion quite studioically and in detail discussed this whole story of using European funds in this segment. And what I am now being represented as a little less monitored by the European Funds is interested, what do you think this is about, which is why my ministry colleagues are not effective, has given this sub-optimation, has given this ignorance, whether these are priorities, which is why we are not using the European Funds in a way that we should, I say, for the third, fourth year, is a new programme, there should have been a more significant use of funds and we are slightly concerned that maybe we will not use the money available during this financial period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119995	Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119996	Dear colleague Maras, since you were Minister of Entrepreneurship, I will answer for your entrepreneurs. I have to say that the EU funds system, so that's one IT tool where the Minister of the Regionals sees exactly how many applications before closing the competitions, got, what amount of entrepreneurs are looking for, and he actually has an analytical tool that tells him, increase the alocation. And he really has a right to do that because there's still money in that item. Is it logical for you that only 76 million kunas are recorded energy recovery for tourism, for energy savings in tourism, when we know that 20% of GDP comes from this tourism, and that according to the individual project support is between €220.000.00 million and €13 million. So that's all, what, if it's going to be 13 million by, it's just 7.5, it depends on how many projects. And also for industry, energy efficiency in industry is only 114 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119997	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, Comrade Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119998	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleague Cikotic, I must commend your debate because you have indeed shown from that other point of view, and these are primarily citizens, how much this topic affects their lives. What was particularly important to me was when you mentioned tourism and consumption, in fact, energy in tourism because as we see our electricity system has a high load right in July. This is not an accident because with climate change, there is a large number of use of air conditioning because the days are getting warmer and at that point we have a great consumption of electricity. Since energy policy cannot be separated from other policies, we believe that, as you pointed out, not enough attention is given to this extremely important sector, as well as energy consumption in the sector is also dependent on this consumption and on the price of accommodation services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u119999	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120000	Energy has a share in the final price of the final product, that's for sure. What we need to do as the Republic of Croatia, we need to find ways to help our entrepreneurs actually reduce this direct cost that affects the final product. I also have to say that when it comes to this production of only 114 million kunas, I appeal to the ministry that all those who have actually met the criteria to enable them to have this energy savings because according to data from industrial production in the Republic of Croatia compared to the 9th month 2017, it fell by 2.7% and we need to do everything in order for our entrepreneurs to be competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120001	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate next is a colleague of Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120002	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Energy policy cannot be separated from other policies and it ultimately affects the country's economic growth. We would certainly not have debated this way if the Republic of Croatia had not taken on the commitments it has and by joining the EU and by accepting all those principles of energy sustainability because the goals we set ourselves do not actually have a choice but to achieve them. It is precisely this law that speaks of fulfilling those obligations that we have made, so to all those who produce energy from renewable sources in order to provide the compensation they need to receive. What's important here is to say that energy from renewable sources, energy is expensive energy, we must all be aware because investments are quite large. All those wishing to invest in renewable energy sources expect a certain and return of these funds and therefore these quotas and preferential prices have been introduced so that they can justify these and their investments. What the data says in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about solar power plants, according to data found on the Ministry of Economy page, we have about 500 projects with a total installed power of about 100 megawatts, hydropower plants have 49 with installed power of 1.676 megawatt, and wind power plants 43 projects with installed power of 1,783 megawatts. A biomass power plant of 115 power 214 megawatts, geothermal only 2 20 megawatts, and then we get to the biogas power plant has 60 with 64.76 megawatts. But this data is old, and I found it on the Ministry's pages, and we're gonna stay in this biogas plant area right now. With his colleague Križanić, who knows more about the area, has given me little guidance, so 30 megawatts of all those projects that have not been implemented will be available. These quotas will be re-scheduled and now that I understand the problem is that, which these projects will be limited to half-megawatts, and we have seen in all of these power plants that they are usually made up of always two blocks of 1 megawatt power, is it just because the EU does not want to finance, can't use funds for more than half-megawatt power or is some other reason, is half-megawatt from the investor's point of view a small power. As for solar power plants, there are therefore investors who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia in larger power plants, we see that these power plants, although they are a significant number, but they are in total strength a very, very small amount and it would be good to allow these potential investors to really invest these funds as soon as possible, these are significant funds for local self-government units, I think that this is also on Pločnik municipality where we have an interested investor. And in this sense, everything needs to be done to enable, not to make it difficult for these investors to come, these are the means of investments that can later be a significant income of local self-government units. The wind power plant is mentioned here and it is not a good story, which happened to them because in the case of investments in renewable energy plants, it is important that these investments also stimulate domestic production, that is the meaning of the whole story, if those components are not there then these investments are actually not going to result in the ultimate purpose. So when we talk about solar panels, it is even said that these investors who are planning to invest in production, not only in production, but only in building power plants, but in producing these components in Croatia. That should be taken care of. On the website of the State Statistics Office we can find data for the 9th month 2018 that total gross electricity production in the Republic of Croatia 802 gigawat hours of this hydroelectric products produced 353 gigawat watches, thermopower plants 304 gigawat watches, wind power plants 82 gigawat watches, and solar power plants of the world 7 gigawat hours. So when we see in the Republic of Croatia the structure of energy from renewable sources then we can say that 2/3 of this energy is derived from renewable energy sources. However, what is the ultimate problem here, we can say that in terms of meeting these objectives we are on the right track, but what interests citizens, interested entrepreneurs is primarily cheap electricity, energy that will be, to allow entrepreneurs not to increase the cost of their production, but rather to be competitive because if we observe data that electricity consumption in industry can drop, then it would be good to fall because new technologies are being introduced, which is rationalizing consumption, but if this is because production can't be competitive then that's the information that we need to worry about. To conclude this debate, energy policy is a complex policy, in fact I will not tell a ministry that is not connected and that cannot and should not affect that policy. As representatives, when we discuss such complex topics, we have the right to express our views, because I did not like it yesterday, on the Committee on the Croatians, when we discussed a very important declaration, Minister Tolusic called in the final word us who had discussed it before, so we are not in the hall. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you are as a member of the Bureau of Parliament, I ask you to influence the protection of the dignity of MPs, that members of the government do not call them, the public has the right to do so, but let not the members of the government do so in the future, it was done yesterday by Minister Tolusic, I do not say that the representatives have now made them, but often call us to talk about topics that we do not understand, that we do not read the laws, and we only express what we hear from the citizens and what at some point are our knowledge. And in that sense, we must understand our debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120003	Thank you, too. At your presentation we have two replicas, but before the replica, we will welcome the students and students of the tourist catering school from Poreč, welcome. ... The first is colleague Josip Križanić, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120004	I thank Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry he doesn't have colleagues Bulja, he's always pushing for agriculture, today is not even eating the biogas. You spoke of biogas and biogas plants that solved nitrate directives on the one hand, and on the other hand, we produce electricity from renewable energy choices, and we solve the environmental problems of the fertilisation plant. The problem is that the cost of construction is very good that we raised from 30 kilowatts to 500 kilowatts, so half a megawatt would be ideal if we could get that up to megawatts. We know that there is an EU problem and quotas that we cannot raise, the problem is that it will be difficult for farmers to build, because 70, 80% of the investment costs half a megawatt, as much as it would cost the entire megawatt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120005	Here's your answer, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120006	Thank you, dear colleague Križanić, from the technical point of view I do not know that these gas diesel engines that exist there that their power is 1 megawatt and should then be taken into account, because how it will be will be much higher costs, if diesel or gas engines have to adapt to that smaller power. In this sense, we will have untapped capacities and indeed this question, the real question of whether or not something can be done, to increase that power to 1 megawatt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120007	Thank you, next replica, colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120008	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state, Honored colleague Žagar, the investment in a 50-megawatt photovoltaic power plant is a 33.85m euro circus, the life span is 30 years produced in approximately 30 years. One million 941097 megawatt hours of energy. Maintenance costs are 24.97m euros, a cost of produced energy of 58.82m or per megawatt hour 30.3 euros. Is it too expensive energy and your opinion of the LNG terminal that would lead to Croatia's energy independence of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120009	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120010	Thank you Vice President, dear colleague Kirin, this issue is always about fear m we have fear of technology, LNG terminal certainly, Croatia should be an independent country of energy. Today we have such technologies that allow security. When it comes to energy, we want to have cheap energy available, but we're afraid of wind power plants, hydropower plants, each of these power plants affects the environment, the solar power plant will need to take care of them someday. There's no energy that doesn't affect the environment. I am in my own time, and I have honored why the Minister of Energy is also the Minister of Environmental Protection, because he is in conflict with himself. I'm thinking, maybe I'm rare, I'm for it, I think nuclear energy is one of the cleanest forms of energy, and I think Croatia with one nuclear power plant could meet all its needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120011	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The last individual reported debate is a debate by counterpart Tomislav Panenic, please welcome fellow Paneenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120012	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This particular theme that we are talking about today can certainly have different aspects to look at. This aspect that represents the ministry is something that I will actually say again, just solve problems from the past, we talked about certain solutions here that can be, but if we went back to that past, we'd learn exactly what here's colleague Križanić is talking about, it's that there are also needs for renewable energy sources, which will be important support and citizens if we talk about microsolars as well. And I agree in that part, that we must surely advocate, that on Croatian farms, those who have the support just for the sake of the nitrite directive are creating frameworks so that as many of these projects can be implemented and then we will raise their sustainability levels. We would certainly not be talking today about the issue of the price of milk and that, if our farmers, on their farms, had additional income, but we see that it was implemented only on a certain number of farms, relatively small. If we get to the wood industry and we have the same need there, because we would say that these 774 megawatts were one united quality policy that was to be led during the Minister of Vrdoljak, then we would talk today about paying, the benefits they pay for the microsolars they have on their houses, paying for bio gas plants on their farms, paying for the plants they have in their wood industries, and I think that we would then have the real effect of stopping here, and then the secretary of state could also say defend, maybe we pay something more, but surely in all of this we are doing well. And that's the key to the introduction. It is not only an introduction to meet certain assumptions that our EU membership requires, the signing of certain agreements because we can do whatever we want. We could have 999 megawatts, turn everything into wind power effects would have been zero, this way it's not zero, but it's heavy, whenever it takes every Croatian citizen's account, look at that fee, then there should be an explanation of why he pays that fee and what his neighbor, his agricultural producer, got the state industry. Let's just see, over 800 procedures were initiated because they were unhappy with the solutions that were at the time and most of them came from the time of Minister Vrdoljak, we'll have to deal with it once and we'll be paying for the penalty. So we also have international arbitration that was initiated because neither is clear policy and it was a policy of tampering. Because when you have a policy that is implemented in a way that offers are delivered on a new year in the morning at 7 o'clock on Bajak or similar examples, then we certainly don't talk about good intentions, good intentions are those that encourage Croatian citizens, Croatian businessmen, explain that they report to normal open competitions, show their best projects that will bring the best effects, and such projects are chosen rather than who will come up faster, is not a renewable energy source, it's not a race. At that race, only those who had a position of agreement with certain structures in the ministry who took advantage of that position and at the end of the day when we speak, here is my colleague Bulj, who spoke about what the problem was, we pay for it, we pay for exactly that kind of treatment. And then we talk about people who appear today in this government as coalition partners and say we're going to save now the Croatian education system, I think then we have a bit of a hypocritical situation because the damage that occurs in the past and now you're going to show that you're a hero of the future time, which is the time that we're leaving not only us who are now to pay for it but also I'm afraid that it will pay for certain generations that are just coming. We should always make sure that the policy we propose in the end doesn't have to be paid by any government behind it, politically responsible for it, or anyone should bear it, but we must have benefits and communicate clearly. What's the benefit about if we have a cogenerational gas power plant? And we pay the same fee for the renewables, so the gas power plant that's cogeneration and we have one, we'll pay for it too. And then there's no strange tendency to set up a fellow Bull in Peru, so it wasn't safe in that project to set up a gas power plant because we have all over here and our environment, we have in Austria which are canned we can buy them for change, put them in motion and drive them to be, so it's physical there but our products would be for our needs. We have a thermal power plant in Sisak that only works when it's top-loading. There's the point of setting up such a power plant, getting an incentive price and using exactly the benefits from it. All that other stuff, those are stories that try to show that there's some other reality. Reality is just interesting. And I'm afraid not only that power plant, but other power plants that will benefit from our weaknesses, weaknesses in a particular area will present themselves, when we get there, set up such a facility, will be re-emerged in a Slavonic ship, one day they'll probably show up at my place in Vukovar. And then we find ourselves in a situation where as a representative from that area, knowing what is in the background, what to say, that you are against such a power plant because you are doing damage to the entire Croatian society and to every resident in that area or to say what I am in favour of getting a job there 20, 30 people. What are we doing? I mean who we represent that way. If we will always look at such an approach to forget all the damage that occurs, then we have the wrong concerts in our heads. And I support and exactly the anger here and the state-owned Spanish industry who is angry that they simply couldn't get to it. So the state industry, which could not, but could not obtain the wood mass quota it needed to produce for one deal, could not have reached a system of renewable energy sources that would certainly have been useful for their needs, that was another reason. So how many of those reasons will we have and whether it's a model of encouragement. Therefore, the seriousness of the topic of renewable energy is truly crucial in this. And there can be no discussion here in a way to interrogate my colleague Bulji whether he understands what cogeneration is. He just needs to understand and it represents what it says in the electricity bill. What does it say there? It says the amount that we've grown now. And secondly, there's going to be an argument, so good citizens haven't paid a higher price for energy. And you know which one, why not? Because the tax rate's down, right? The VAT on electricity came down to 13% for the public and then they actually stayed somewhere but in reality the lost revenues of the state budget there is a rag then the budget from some other forms of taxation because we see that income from the tax base is growing, the fees are increased but our economyr whose VAT is neutral he pays and that fee. He's the one who's damaged in that, and that's what needs to be said here clearly, that should be indicated. And I'm sorry, and when we have this clarification of the law that says what this law really wants to change, I understand the good intentions you have, but you're avoiding telling us what we've come for. Why is something within 31.12 much higher at a significantly higher price and 1.1 is reduced? Why do you force certain projects? Why one C.E.M.P. gets 140 and some megawatts of an increase of 344. Is this being done at the last meeting of the Government of Zoran Milanovic? What's the reason for that? Why should we even have these situations so that we have these conversations, that we have this, here's my view in all of this, because in the end, when the whole picture of the renewable energy system was looked at, the policy that was being conducted, then I can only as a minister who, for a short time, had the opportunity to take care of it, express one bitterness. And when you commented that I was a minister behind the Vrdoljaks, I was a minister, but exactly if this crew hadn't destroyed and they'd have done something. In those 100 days when I looked at everything that was done, it took that time because it was all covered up. Everything was hidden somewhere so it wouldn't be visible, all the affairs that were around it, all in some way one part of it appeared in the media and the public's attention rose to that part and the political attention rose to that part, but in that short time it wasn't possible to fix everything that needed to be fixed, it was still a more comprehensive policy and it can't be communicated as you state secretary, you communicate, what you didn't do. Well, you're the secretary of state now, and you're dating some bill proposals right now, so why didn't you settle it in one day when it was so simple, when the minister of some before your minister and your term of office couldn't do it? I think there's a responsibility that you're carrying, and I'm carrying my share and I admit it, but I'm going to say for real, I just didn't get the chance, it should have fallen to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120013	Thank you. We have six replicas on your display, first colleague Bulj, after him, colleague Sagar. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120014	Thank you very much. My colleague Panenic, of course, is known to everyone who is cogeneration and that through this... Study through that part to subsidize. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that part that would heat supposed fields, greenhouses and plastics... That's how they wanted to get the thermo power plant to Lake Peru. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fact is that MOST has given and it should be stressed, the Microsolars Act where it would reduce the number of poor families, where they would be independent families, where they would encourage entrepreneurship because each di solar system must be produced from that panel, must be produced in the Republic of Croatia. It puts on roofs, it's a huge number of employees but it's not an interest, it's interest to give 2.5 billion to foreigners for wind power plants, subsidize their business and that money pulls out the vank. So this proposal that we have made, which the government does not want to accept, solve poverty, encourage entrepreneurship, create independent families of energy, and thus take That draws billions, a muse from the citizens' pockets. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120015	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120016	Well, fellow Bull, it looks like our agricultural strategy should look like this. Dear peasants, dear farmers, cattlemen, build your farms on Peru because there you will be able to lean on the thermal power plant, so it seems that we should communicate clearly to everyone because it's the only way they're close to it. Everything else is too far away from you. You can't get close. And then you'll believe me, the feather blossoms. All the farms, all the wood industry, everything will be around Peru, and we will have one prosperity in that area. So, I'm an advocate if it's such a policy, we put in every area one thermopower plant, gas or wind farm maybe even put all of our economies along with it, then we'll be able to say here you're close to it, you haven't been able to catch it, but you feel like it's yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120017	Thank you. There's another colleague, Sagar, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120018	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenic, there is a pattern in Croatia called AGSTJ, and where I am. You're talking about interest, of course that energy investments are huge, there are great interests, financial interests. I will tell you about the geothermal pool that is in the area of the town of Slatina, throughout the area of Slatina and that is my Municipality of Nova Bukovica. You know, when the Ministry called for a concession for the field of investigation, it seems to you like the borders in Africa. They've been pulled straight, the cards are already divided, the pattern of this AGSTJ is probably already filled, we've also been objecting as a municipality and rebelling over such determination of the borders of the field of investigation, but you know how it is, we haven't received the answer, I don't know if we've arrived later, as far as I know, we haven't got it. In energy, it's big money, big interests, and there will be no progress without transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120019	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120020	Comrade Sagar, I absolutely agree, where there is no great interest, there has not even been an affair or it may have happened by accident but not by intention and it is actually a key thought and I am glad that you have also mentioned it. It is important that the border is because there is a bill promoter, it is always said the Parliament adopted, whatever parliament adopted, the parliament adopts the majority that supports its government, when the government sends something, maybe in just some cosmetics is adopted, and then the border that someone pulls, whoever answers, is the government that encourages it, and of course I understand and the fight on the local ground, is not the same where there is a certain well-being, is in the area of one municipality or another, is the mining rent that makes a significant income, is certainly the wish of every chief and the people of that municipality, because then it brings them a certain well-being, and there is a need to seek out, the responsibility of a political one, why someone has broken down, where it is not, if it is so close. I understand it can be far away, then you have nothing to look for, you have no luck but you should take care of those to whom the wealth belongs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120021	Next up, he's a colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120022	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, I don't know why I'm afraid to let foreign investors come to invest in the wind and solar panels is the state's interest, especially in the municipalities and cities where this is happening. And the fact is and the truth is that the biggest income from that annual rent has just the municipalities and cities and it had no amount. With this rent and part of the charge of electricity production is very much in the large amount... units of local self-government and there's no reason to be afraid, to allow one new moment, I have the interest of five letters of intent to invest wind and solar panels, in an area of 5000 m square. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rent a year's worth of municipalities, five million kunas. Is that why we give or do not give or is the reason that we refuse and that the same people who want to invest in Croatia go to Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120023	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120024	Here, colleague, I understand your point of view and we perfectly agree, we give them this contract, we don't have to give them the incentive price of energy, believe me, they won't even look at you, they'll turn around and get away from you, so no one or this minister who's in charge right now will tell you what to sign such a contract, he'll sign it if you don't ask for any additional investment. And I had a chance as a minister, everyone who came here was all talking about employment, the fee and that, then eventually we come in, but it's good everything is great if it's why you need to, go, build, yes, but we'd like to get an incentive price. Without the incentive price, you won't get the wind power plant. This encouraging price is paid by Croatian citizens. If it were just for the fee for your community and for it to be delivered at the market price of that electricity, no affair would ever occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120025	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120026	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Panenić, in your presentation, I would like to sum up that you are in favour of sustainable development. And we absolutely support you there, but when we sum up what's actually going on in Croatia today. We only have 0.5% of total energy and produced from the solar system if we compare total production from all possible other systems. It's an ultra paradox that happens first of all in our Dalmatia from which me and my colleague Bull come. As I said, we have an energy agency in northwestern Croatia, and Dalmatia is gone because we are ruled by an absolute verse. When you sum up only spatial plans, the county, the local self-government unit, so when we look at an area where you can invest in solar power plants, there's so much harmony in wind power plants that these investments can't be implemented at all. But when we ourselves propose some investments where it can be financed in return, such as water supply, where a complete system could be transferred to solar panels, you have absolutely no state system to help finance from HBOR to other national funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120027	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120028	Of course, energy from renewable energy sources, from renewable sources, has its own uses. What you're saying is there are specific applications where we should really work on it and actually the ministry primarily recognises these needs, do technical solutions, give the transport and price of water that we now see unartificially growing it is also based on costs, costs of draining, costs of supply and water they finance primarily, in fact where the costs are key in electricity. If you manage to replace that electricity with this from renewables and thus reduce the cost, then you are the strongest mayor as far as your citizens are concerned and every captain should think so and everyone should seek the savings that can be maximumly possible. But here we are talking about the general well-being that is being distributed to all our citizens. If we're just talking about the distribution of something to 140 and some megawatts of C.E.M.P. like one company, there's no benefit for all citizens. There are only certain benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120029	Thanks, buddy. Thank you. And now we have a closing word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of fellow Members Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120030	Thank you very much. We're talking about the life issue, the most important topic, the topic that is of national interest. I think on behalf of the MOST Club that the law we have proposed on microsolars could help for several reasons, and I can point out why. So it would reduce the number of people who are poor, the number of families because installing solars on their houses, their homes, wouldn't be energy-dependent and the state wouldn't give out 200 million kunas to subsidize these people, wouldn't mean local self-government for heating, wouldn't be regional self-government. The Croatian state pays 2.5 billion kuna for wind power plants, a billion and a half kuna for citizens and suppliers of billions of kuna. 2.5 billion kuna. And it's understandable to me from a colleague who's the captain when he tells us those who build the wind... They pay a certain fee but it's minor compared to how much they get out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It would be better if the state subsidized the landscapes like the Cetin region, our trile, the blue area where we have wind power plants, it would be better if it subsidized the state of our families who are poor, who can't pay and the cities and the state have to subsidize with heat or something else. This is about an amount of 2.5 billion kuna. We have meaning not one part of the wind power plant in the windmills is produced in the Republic of Croatia until for the solars of these on photopanel cells we have absolutely all domestic production. We have people who will do this, we have people who will set up and we encourage entrepreneurship, we encourage employment, not someone 2.5 billion kuna per... from renewable energy sources, he pays the subsidy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I'm sorry that the secretary gave up his speech from the last presentation to say about this proposal offered by MOST, free to be prescribed by the government, freely, we have no problem. Because we have a problem here that the chiefs watch what's natural through income. However, this is minor to how much damage these subsidies have done to our citizens who pay through the account. Because it would certainly be easier for us to invest that money just for this, 200 million kuna given by the government, the state, to our poor families, to our 8 to 9,000 microsolars of 5 kilowatts. Five kilowatts of 8 thousand families would have been solved for a year. When we take the 2.5 billion kuna we're giving for wind power subsidies to foreign investors, then the damage is even greater. So we could settle within three years with these subsidies and we're rich in the sun, we have the sun, we have God's gift to have too many sunny days that we don't use. We don't have an energy agency in southern Croatia in 4 Dalmatian counties while in Slavonia we have, I think it's small. So our mayors don't care if they fight for that regional part down there, that we have this agency and we encourage this, our microsolares and the rest of our energy efficiency. The government does not call competitions for facades, building a facade for, and the rest we need and we have money from European funds 228 million kunas for energy efficiency. I think at this point there is no better solution to reduce poverty, energy, that we have, mainly here is winter, we know that people who don't have money will go through that cities, municipalities, local self-government, regional self-government, the state gives huge amounts to subsidize these people for heating, so that they can simply survive the winter. This is the way we would make these families producers, and they wouldn't be energy-dependent, and that's a huge profit for our constructions. So we're going to open this up to the citizens, we're going to triangulate that monopoly out of our heads, what Vrdoljak did as a minister, that's one of the worst moves. Two and a half billion are the only ones who pay a subsidy for wind power plants, two and a half billion, one billion kuna citizens out of their pockets to the muse, plus suppliers who pay one billion kuna. So I understand what my colleague said that municipalities and cities support this, but broaderly, this is the biggest damage to the Republic of Croatia in the entrepreneurial sense, the poor resolution of poverty. and many other things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120031	Thank you. This concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration, the second reading of P.Z. Number 419, and we'll vote on the law today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120032	The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, second reading, PZE No 419, is proposed by the Government, the debate is concluded. The amendments were shared by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club and the Most Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments, with us is Honored Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. Let's go in turn, first amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120033	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120034	It becomes an integral part of the Law. The second is the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, i.e. the first amendment of the club, because there are more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120035	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120036	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Second amendment of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120037	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120038	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment to the third, the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120039	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120040	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment four, HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120041	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120042	Amendment number five, same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120043	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120044	And amendment number six.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120045	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120046	They all become an integral part of the Law. We also have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120047	The government doesn't accept. An explanation for only a second, is rejected because the accounting period is a month. This period is defined and aligned with all sub-legislative acts by the management of an eco-balancing group, and the market premium is also considered within the month. If the accounting period would increase by one year, the premium payments could then only be on an annual basis and this would jeopardise the market premium incentive system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120048	We must vote, since there are no motions, so the government has rejected this amendment. He didn't get the votes he needed. And now we are going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Highly Effective Cogeneration. The adoption of this Act requires a semi-half majority of all MPs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 A.D.A. and 1 A.D.A., were passed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120049	We continue with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 420. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. The government has tabled an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final bill. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120050	Representatives mean briefly, that law has been in place since 2008 since the start of a three-year system of national action plans, and throughout this legislation, the issue of participation has been imposed, the fulfilment of energy-efficient market participants who have contact with end customers of energy, and all in order to create energy market services. So, Croatia has defined itself as a combined approach, so we have measures of alternative policy and measures of a mandatory service scheme, a mandatory scheme system, this is evident that, in part of the alternative policy measures, it is quality to do so, while in the mandatory scheme system, the system has not been adequately established, and we have been warned by the European Commission, on the basis of their usual control of the application of EU legislation. A video conference was held between 2 readings with representatives of the European Commission in which we received the principle of support that this bill is in line with, with this, EU legislation or what the Commission asked for to be done. So now our entire savings system is 1.5% on final energy consumption last year. We introduced this system in a way that it is clear and transparent so that these suppliers would enter into the collection of these mandatory schemes in a way that in the first year those who have the supply of energy above 300 gigawat, in the second year those above 100, and in the third all above 50, means 50 gigawat we put as a limit, so that these smaller ones will be covered by alternative policy measures. In accordance with the National Action Plan, we are obliged to save, save 54.25 fifth of them, half of which should be saved on, on this, on alternative, mandatory schemes, so this law is considered sustainable and that according to what is realistic today is possible to do in the Republic and it implements and objectives by 2030 where savings are expected to be at 32.5%. Among the two readings, all the elements of the law are in line with the recommendations of the parliamentary committees and those with the main debate. Thank you for your attention. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120051	Thank you, too, for your exposure, we have one replica. Here's a colleague of Lovrinovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120052	Dear Mr. Vice President and Secretary of State, when we talk about energy efficiency then, we talked about electricity production earlier. Croatia is one of the biggest importers, but we cannot fix our energy situation if we do not access a project to rebuild houses or housing units where we will save energy. A couple of weeks ago, I was at the Faculty of Architecture among top experts, European and world experts, and there I was introduced and more informed about the passive house project. A passive house is a project that needs to be dedicated to this government, why, because this way extremely much energy, means heat energy savings and these are the sources that we need to go to. That's not what we're talking about in this assembly, that's what this government doesn't talk about at all, scientists. They know how to handle it, they do. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's get this thing going. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120053	Thank you. The Committee's rapporteur wishes to take the floor, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, if not, I am opening a debate. First application on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120054	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The basic issue to be addressed by this final draft law is the full and comprehensive system of energy-related obligors. In order to foster new energy savings in final consumption, we have alternative measures for bonding parties to determine the obligation to save energy. The national objective of saving is equal to saving through a system of commitments and part of the objective planned to be achieved by alternative measures. The obligation system is gradually built from 2019 to 2021 so that the parties become all energy suppliers that in 2019 delivered more than 50 gigawatts of energy to customers. The foreign bond ministry determines the initial base of the commitment of 1.5% of their annual energy sales to final customers in the previous year. The bond parties are obliged to invest in improving energy efficiency and fostering energy efficiency in final consumption in such a way that these investments are achieved as new energy savings not including investments in electricity production and self-sustaining equipment, small and micro-generations, advanced energy consumption reading numbers in final customers or customers and all other investments and incentives for which the bond party demonstrates a new savings. Either by buying determined energy savings or by paying into the fund of the amount determined by the ministry. The public sector implements commitments under the policy of systematic energy and water management in accordance with EU guidelines on decentralisation of local and regional self-government and the needs and adopted plans and energy efficiency programmes and other tools governing the implementation of energy and water management policy as well as in line with sustainable fiscal policy and accountability towards the use of public money. Economic operators which place on the market or make available energy-related products on the market are obliged to fulfil their obligations in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) 2017/1369 and its implementing rules in relation to the labelling of these products and to provide standard product information on energy efficiency, energy consumption and other product resources during use. Energy reconstruction projects of residential buildings, multi-state buildings and family houses financed by European Structural and Investment Funds shall be implemented in accordance with the grant contract for European funds projects. The amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act establish a system of commitments that will have a long-term perspective and encourage investment in energy efficiency also tailored to opportunities in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120055	Thank you. This is also the conclusion of the debate on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 420. And we'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. I also invite all MPs to enter the hall because at 12 o'clock, the vote will begin. Thank you. It's 11:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120056	Thank you very much. We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 420. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendment has been submitted by the Committee on Law, the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats, and I would like to ask the proposer's representative to show about the amendments. Dear Secretary of State Ivo Milatić. Amendment 1 first, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendments of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Committee on Legislatives are accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120058	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120059	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, second reading, PZ No 420, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Rule 199 of the Rules of Procedure, I must agree with the amendments tabled in this way, most of the representatives present must agree. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. We have a sufficient number of votes, so 79 voted to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to ask the proposing's representative to explain them. With us is State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Ivo Milatić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120060	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The government is proposing the following amendments. Amendment No. 1, in Article 9, amended Article 13, paragraph 3, is amended and reads, under three: (a) the parties to the system bond, in 2019, energy suppliers and all their related persons who are energy suppliers, if in 2017, final customers or to distribution stations that sell energy to final customers delivered a total of more than 300 gigawatts (GWh) hours of energy, (a) in 2020, energy suppliers and all their related persons who are energy suppliers, if in 2018, end-users or all their associated energy suppliers have delivered more than 100 gigawatts (GWh) hours of energy in 2020, (a) in 2021 and each subsequent year, energy suppliers and all their related energy suppliers, if in advance of last year's final customers or end-of-the-sales (sports) of total energy sales of 50GPs (s). In Article 9, in Article 13, paragraph 7, the words of all related companies shall be replaced by the words of all related persons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In Article 9, in the amended Article 13, paragraph 19, the words of the related companies shall be replaced by the words of the related persons and the words of the related societies shall be replaced by the words of the related persons. Explanation,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120061	Now you're going to the second amendment, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120062	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120063	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120064	The second amendment, Article 31(1), is amended and will be amended as follows: the Ministry will take the decision referred to in Article 13(4), as amended in Article 9 of this Act for 2019 until 31 December 2108.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120065	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the amendments to the government only club representatives can participate, unless no one reports to the First Amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has been unanimously adopted by 78 votes and becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the Second Amendment of the Government. Please, let's vote. It becomes an integral part and this amendment because it received 78 votes unanimously. We are now moving to a decision on the other amendments tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats. We agreed on the amendments at the beginning of today's session. The government has accepted all amendments and they become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. I find that most of the 79 votes for and 13 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Efficiency Act. And the last point we will speak of today is to give an opinion of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Sasa Djujic. I would like the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of Željko Reiner to further explain the Committee's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120067	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. At its 45th session, held on 6 December this year, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System decided on a request for an opinion on the infringement of the HS Rules of Procedure submitted to this Committee by representative Sasa Djujic on 5 December 2018. In accordance with the provisions of Art. On the basis of its competence, the Committee gave the following opinion to the Council, by a majority of votes, 6 votes for, 3 against, and 1 CONSIDENT, 1 236th century. The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall be prescribed that a representative who is not satisfied with the explanation of the Chair of the meeting may announce to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the HS will submit a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. The business institute has been set up in such a way that the members of this Committee are familiar with the possibility of holding a session, given the short period of 24 hours from the submission of a request in which the Committee must deliver an opinion to the HS. The request in question shows that MP Sasa Djujic has not announced that he will submit an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure because he is said to have been taken from him. Taking into account the dynamics and mode of work at the HS sessions, the confiscation of the word does not prevent a representative from announcing to this Committee an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure which is one of the 4 formal assumptions with the written form of the Request, the justification and the time limit for a metric decision. Evidence of this is a statement of opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure at the session of the Assembly held on 5 December of this year, in exactly the same circumstances, or in the words taken from the representative. In the event of the submission of a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, this announcement will be deemed to be valid. Thus, by such a failure, MP Sasa Djujic lost the right to file a request for the damage to the Rules of Procedure. It shall be noted that the duties of the Chair of the Assembly shall be impartial and shall apply equally to all MPs the provisions of the HS Rules of Procedure relating to the confiscation of the words for the second subject which the representative has not received if he has reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure of the HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120068	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and in accordance with Article 1(2). The 236th Rules of Procedure on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall be decided without debate. I therefore accept the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS on the basis of an opinion request on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Sasa Djujic. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 FOR and 1 SUBSIDENT and reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Parliamentary Committee. Now, let us give an opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Representative of the Peđa Grbin. I would like the President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Honored Vice President, Željko Reiner, to further explain the opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120070	Mr. President-in-Office HS, colleagues and colleagues, Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 47th session held on 10 December shall decide on a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure submitted to this Committee by the representative of the Peđa Grbin on 7 December of this year in accordance with the provisions of Article. 236 and based on the competence of the Member State concerned. 60, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by majority vote, 7 for and 3 abstention, gives the following opinion: This Committee is the position that, in the spirit of democratic way, the conduct of the HS session and the interest of the public, it is desirable to allow the representative to give reasons for the withdrawal of the amendments. However, as a provision. 202 The HS Rules of Procedure do not explicitly state such behaviour, it is considered that the provisions of the HS Rules of Procedure have not been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120071	I would like to thank the President of the Committee in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without discussion. I give the vote the following conclusion: The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS shall be adopted on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Representative of Peja Grbin. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 7 abstentions and 5 against. We came to the conclusion that it was proposed by the Assembly Committee. To give an opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS on the basis of an opinion request on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representatives Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardic. I ask the vice president of the house again, Željka Reiner, to further explain his opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120073	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system at the 47th session held on 10 December 2018 decided on a request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the HS, which was submitted to this committee by representatives Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardić on 7 December 2018. In accordance with the provisions of Art. 236. and on the basis of its competence under Article 236. 60, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system by majority vote, 7 FOR and 4 against, gives the following opinion: In view of the identical content of those requirements, the Committee discussed it unitedly. On 7 December 2018, it was established that the president of HS was in line with his business powers during the vote on the amendment. 33 On the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the pension insurance law, the suspension was declared and, after the expiry of the time for which the break was set, the vote on that amendment was given. After such a vote, in accordance with the provisions of Art. 256. The Rules of Procedure of HS declared the result of the vote. In view of the above, the Committee is of the opinion that the provisions of the HS Rules of Procedure have not been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-07-0.u120074	I thank the president of the Committee. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without debate, and I shall give the following conclusion to the vote. The opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of HS shall be adopted on the basis of an opinion request on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representatives Gordan Maras and Davor Bernardic. Please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 1 abstention, 12 against. It concluded that it was proposed by the Assembly Committee. I'd like to ask my colleague, Stephen Curaj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, please.
