ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65825	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament would like to request a break on behalf of the Most Club on the current political situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65826	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65827	I'm looking for a 10-minute break, please, for this, judicial reform and the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65828	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65829	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65830	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? If no one, colleague Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65831	I'd like to ask you to take a ten-minute break, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65832	You got it. That's it. I'll see you at 9.50. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Welcome? The first club of representatives is that of MOST independent lists and respected counterpart Bozo Petrov. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65834	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask a question about who is writing the Croatian-Hungarian settlement today? There's no coincidence, especially no coincidence in a series of events. It is no coincidence that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic spoke to the current speaker about the Hungarians negotiating on the INA. We were also wondering as the Croatian public who is negotiating, with whom the Croatian position is on the issue, whether there are any conclusions. Since you haven't even chosen consultants in a year. Then there were two important, key INA-related situations because two important companies in Croatia are important. It's INA refinery Sisak and Petrochemy. Sometimes someone might think it's separate stories, separate stories from what the Prime Minister announces he's talking to the Hungarians, that Petrochemy is separated from the INA. It's all together when you put the dice together and when you look at the bigger picture then you realize that there is really no gas blackmail to Petrochemia, so that Croatia will agree to shut down the refinery in Sisak. Interesting! You know what's interesting? When you conclude that, then Hungarians whisper to the "National" for a secret meeting, and that was exactly the subject and that it happened. And then torpedoes, Hungarians torpedo Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Energy Minister from the meeting because the meeting was obviously secret only for Croatians. What's even more interesting is the conclusions of the meeting aren't secret, they're public. The Sisak refinery is being shut down, 60 jobs are being shut down, and all parliamentary representatives have been given insight into the results of the business of the Sisak Refinery and have seen that the Sisak Refinery can operate neatly. Now imagine that Croatia invested in the Sisak Refinery so that only then would the same refinery work and whether 60 jobs would be closed or 600 jobs would be opened. That's what you need to ask yourself, that's what you got. If this is the deal between the government and the Hungarians, then I think it's fair and correct for the Prime Minister to go public and say that's our deal. So it's wrong for the National to be a spokeswoman for the government. Isn't it? At the end of whose interests does the Prime Minister defend? Who is representing and for what purpose of Croatia's negotiations? Martina Dalic? Is that the same person who publicly moved away from INA because her husband is working in a high position so he's automatically worried about the company? Is that a conflict of interest? Is this the same way that Andrej Plenkovic hired Zdravko Marić to exempt himself from Agrokor and participates in meetings. Is that the government's new logic? We talk about one thing to the public, we do the other in secret. I don't know, I believe that now MP Bačić, an analyst at the Croatian Parliament, will try to explain the logic of the Croatian government, who defends Croatian interests in every way. But I would, I wonder if Mr. Bacic would say at that point that it's a business decision as the Prime Minister said, it's a business decision. You see, Mr. Bačić, if the Hungarians ruled in Croatia, then it's a business decision, because it's a long-term MOL policy and it suits Mol. Otherwise, the Sisak Refinery should be a national interest, as only Croatia corresponds to the Sisak Refinery. Only Croatia. Everything else is a betrayal of Croatian interests. And then I ask you what purpose and who does this government work for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65835	We are going to another club of representatives, respected Željko Glasnovići and Independent for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65836	Dear colleagues, today some comrades wear this white ribbon, to remind ourselves of the 75 victims of the Croats in Tovarnik who were killed by the great Serbian imperialists and today is the 20th anniversary and the burial of those victims. We also remember not only them, but to remember those who don't know who attacked them, there are some sitting here, that the youngest victim was a 6-month-old baby, and the oldest 104-year-old and the smallest victim of a 5-year-old girl rape, and the oldest 80-year-old. If we don't know that, we better remember that. As the subject of justice and the legal system today, for these crimes and others in Tovarnik no one has answered to this day. The biggest threat to Croatia all of these stories we're talking about here until the basic problem is solved will be fairy tales. It was once how everything went. The biggest threat is the former personnel and criminal groups who teamed up after and during the Homeland War to take over the state. They've done it very skillfully. Corruption, dysfunctional state. Those are your threats. What do we have today? We have judicial confusion, unarranged laws, dubious laws, changes, additions to the infinite, nothing is solved. A healthy economic system can't exist inside a dysfunctional... system, that's why there's no investment. Until this is resolved, the economy will remain where it is, we will be in the basement with Romania and Bulgaria and other post-communist countries. Everything sounds nice in the Parliament, we have institutions, this, that, and... by these indicators some, that hairstyle, the smoke curtains of Scandinavian land, but implementation on the ground none. Croatia is a member of the International Institute for Private Law, you have comparative laws where you can take what I best from other legal systems. Why hasn't it been done so far? What are these legal advisors doing, the Anti-Corruption Council? So far, where are the security checks for judges whose files are in Belgrade? Some have stolen money, some are in the Constitutional Court, some are run by state-owned companies. Who voted for them? What about the origin of the property? Some have more assets than Hugo Hefner. Where did they get it? Where did they get it? You in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, America cannot bring in more than ten thousand dollars without anyone asking you about the origin of the property. One more thing, why can't we go ahead? The doctrines do not interfere, do not interfere... pact and NATO pact. The Germans cleaned up their personnel. Why? Because they figured out those whose mental set was fossilized in that one-party system couldn't change. At heart they think their system is the best, they can't modernise the state and that's the core of the problem, but they've taken over all the politics, the economy, the legal system, the NGOs, and that's why we can't go forward. Here's what clear legal frameworks need, of course, increased supervision, the administration of people who work in courts, tax administrations, that they have good pay that they are safely at work. But that's not all, that problem is more of a cultural problem and a mental set that stems from the former system, and that's the core of the problem. He's ethically and culturally because in this country he's completely destroyed the moral ethical code. Who's talking about it? You write more laws, more laws, more laws, and the problem is not solved. Here's who runs our colleges, law schools who sits down? The heads that were involved in the postmortem aid, where the dead were also robbed. In law schools, there's still a failed doctrine of Marxism, Leninism. What happens in law schools, same heads, same characters. Here we talk about nepotism, here's a document, an open document... Vrdoljak provided the former firm and wife with 150 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that nepotism? Here's what happened from then on, there in HEP he put each of the pizza masters to the pet, nothing to anyone. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, here I am, left, right wrong UDBA. What do you need? A new generation needs, young heads that are not corrupt, defiled by that spirit. If we don't have anything done, we'll have a tomato republic by now. And we play great heroes, look at the money of these politicians, the origin of the property, look at the money of these constitutional and supreme judges and nothing. In all of them a little, little Titic squats in them they can't be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65837	Thank you. Let's move on, third in line is the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65838	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. When asked by colleagues Petrova who rule Croatia, it is easy to answer from a colleague Petrov. The government of the Republic of Croatia, no one else and no one less. One who is required under the Constitution to worry about the political and economic interests of the Republic of Croatia is the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. And while managing Croatia it is quite clear, normally only possible to talk to all those economic operators, their administrations which are of particular strategic interest to Croatia. I don't see what's more normal than the fact that when we talk about one of the most important companies in Croatia, which is the INA, that... the responsible Minister of Energy and the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy and the Minister of Economy spoke. If anyone else was talking to me, it would be weird and I would expect you to ask a question here. When they talk about it, it is perfectly normal for me, and at the moment when this same government of the Republic of Croatia is conducting the procedure and the process of selecting a consultant to advise the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how and how to buy the stake of MOL owned by one of the most significant Croatian companies, and that is completely normal, so more if you want to also talk about the Sisak Refinery. Minister Coric just said that when it comes to the refinery business in INA, when it comes to the fate of the Refinery Sisak, that the government of the Republic of Croatia remains on the stand to preserve the refinery business in the company, especially in Sisak and that the INA remains a vertically integrated Croatian company. That's what the government of the Republic of Croatia is working on. At the same time, you did not highlight the second problem in Croatia, which is the problem of Petrochemy. INA, along with PPD, is the main supplier of Petrokemia. We know what the problems are in Petrokemia, there have been suspensions of gas delivery to Petrokemia and who is more invited to discuss the fate of Petrokemia than the fate of the refinery than the two of them. Therefore, I do not see the absolute problem that the meeting came to discuss the further fate and position of MOL within the INA, to talk about the Sisak Refinery, and you know very well that the problem of the Sisak Refinery has been and has followed all the Croatian Governments since 2002. Since 2002, INA and MOL have been committed to invest in reconstruction and reconstruction and modernisation of INA. And since then, a number of energy or economy ministers have changed, as they were called and in whose jurisdiction the care and care of the INA has missed all that commitment that was signed inside when MOL became a strategic partner of the INA, to complete and edit, to modernise, to modernise the refinery in Sisak. It wasn't done, until today it wasn't done, therefore, that didn't surprise us at all, but we agree that we should do everything possible to keep this job in Sisak going. Therefore, I will conclude with this, the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and all your other issues are actually plantings and so I experience them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65839	And the last debate between GLAS and HSU's teammate Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u65840	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. For introduction, let me just let you know, given the recent statements made by one of the biggest hormone experts in women, my hormone condition is perfectly fine even though I'm not in the group where he spoke, I'm having a little trouble with coffee, so once again, two, three coffees when I drink, I'll be absolutely fine. But what's the theme of me reporting on behalf of the club is something else entirely. You know, we use this pay phone too often to be ourselves liked or liked by others, but real life is out of this assembly and real life is somewhere else. Last week when I was coming back from Parliament to Jelačić's place, I was met by a lady at a very, very late age and she said, "Give me one thing, what are you doing up there?" What's gender ideology? As you discuss gender ideology, in this country husbands beat women, abuse their families and young women have no choice. So I call from this pay phone one more time, even though I asked at the current hour of our prime minister, that we have little courage and that the Istanbul Convention should be sent to the Parliament for ratification. Imagine how much courage it takes for certain women to come out, say they're abused, leave home, try to seek refuge elsewhere, and they don't get it there. So Mr. Plenkovic, look at some women, look at the little problems they have, if they have the courage to admit it, if the wife is a mayor... I'm just waiting for my colleagues to say what they have to say. [[You can't hear it.]] If one mayor's wife had enough courage to go public, raise a report, say she was abused, Mr. Plenkovic, have enough courage, send the Istanbul Convention to ratify in the Parliament, don't count how many hands she has on one side, how many hands she has on the other. If you're missing some hands, you'll get the hands that are in our club, but have the courage, send them out so we can see who's in this assembly, who's in favor of still being abused by their families and their wives, that they don't have a choice, and who's for the state to say that's the problem, we'll stand behind it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68595	We now move to agenda and first item: - Final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 178 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Agriculture. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation of the final bill, with us is agriculture minister, respected Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68596	Thank you, Mr. President, welcome to you and all the MPs and MPs, the other fellow Members of the Parliament. You have before you the fifth law or the proposal of the Fifth Law on Agricultural Land, we had laws from '91, 2001, 2008 and 2013 plus eight amendments to those laws that were in force. I believe that all lawmakers have had good intentions but the result of all the laws so far is definitely not ideal. The proposal that is before you today in the second reading, the Final Proposal of the Law on Agricultural Land, has the intensities to try to correct a lot of illogicality in current legislation and I hope to lead to more efficient management of state agricultural land and in one segment and abandoned private agricultural land. Like I said, for the last 27 years, state agricultural land hasn't managed well. First he didn't want anyone, but in the '90s they weren't too interested, and then later when they went into more serious incentives, then they began to be interested in everything but actually a good part of them ha did not use for what they needed, for agricultural production, rather than for various manipulations, rather than for farming. At times, high prices and priority concessions were favourable to non-farmers or non-farmers, favoured those who did not pay rent but were encouraged, those who got land to be cattle farmers and did not see cattle during that period, were favored by illegal entry into the state agricultural land, destruction of land. At times, the land has also been given to those who are indeed engaged in agriculture. By entering the EU and paying for incentives per unit of surface, i.e. per hectare, regardless of production, i.e., with minimal agricultural activity, things have become, at least from my perspective, even more interesting, here, when I look now from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture. The current law also excluded the DORH from the legal control of state agricultural land management. Well, the DORH didn't take us four years to talk about that part. We've centralized the procedure in the hands of literally a few people. Today, in the Agricultural Land Agency, 20 people, 2013 or 2014 are engaged in business leases, were literally, three or four people. We kicked out the domicile from the current current current law, and it happened again that, just this once, through the Agricultural Land Agency and on a much smaller scale, since the country didn't split as fast as before. We've divided the land again to cattle without cattle. Yesterday established simple d.o.o. companies from Slavonia work country in Dalmatia, companies from Dalmatia work country in Slavonia, from like working country I don't know in Međimurje, from Međimurje they work country in some new part. We even have a new kind of farmer, farmers, who first get, 100, 200, 300 or several thousand hectares of agricultural land or pastures based on a fantastic business plan of 3 pages. And after that, when they get a few million or tens of millions of kuna incentives, they realize that they could also deal with agriculture. In the agricultural holdings, today we have about 170 000 family farms, about 105,000 receive incentives. Some of them are certainly hobbyists, not all of these 170 000 serious farmers, but surely there are many of them on the road and the vast majority of them in the system are actually real farmers worth investing in and where the state has to take care of and provide them with quality and normal life, in their municipalities, cities, or in the whole country. And now this may sound strange, but I really think that for the first time there is a law written for these people, for those 100 thousand OPGs that should mean something in Croatian agriculture. This law favours a group of people, which is a Croatian honest, quality farmer, regardless of what he is, what he does and what he does. This law was not written, as was the case before, by the State Secretary or by the Ministers of Agrokor or by some long companies. It was not written by peasant leaders, who very often only cared about new hectares or the solution to their personal problems. It was not written by all the interesting lobbies that have been pilgrimaged to the Ministry of Agriculture for the past few months, trying to figure out something that is not in the interest of Croatian farmers, written by my people, people who work at the Ministry of Agriculture, I personally wrote it, with a professional commission, with an interested public and with all those whom we consider to be able to say, how and in what way, to manage state agricultural land in quality. Whether the law is ideal, we will see when it comes to its implementation and when it begins to be implemented, but I believe that the target group that is highlighted in this law is well highlighted, which is the family agricultural economy, micro and small businesses. Not big, not fake, not incompetent, but actually those who really do agriculture. When we talk about the law itself, I would point out these few important things, although I am, today I will be there with you, whatever it takes, when we talk about the debate, so we will answer any questions or if any clarifications are needed. This law restores power to state agricultural land, local self-government units, and restores domicile to the law. So land in the area of a specific municipality, priority in the assignment, should primarily be given to farmers in the area of that municipality. We are solving in some segments, I hope very successfully, the problem, the administrative obstacles, which so far have created great problems for farmers, at the very disposal of state agricultural land. When we talk about the very lease of state agricultural land, it can be obtained by those farmers, who are neatly paid, who were not obliged... for the lease, which they have managed well, which justified their economic programmes, i.e. to justify their economic programmes, which will help us in all of this our municipalities and cities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We help our cattlemen who lack land, meaning in relation to one conditional throat, one hectare, to intend their own needs for the earth. So a cattleman who has 50 acres of agricultural land, whether private, whether or not state-owned, doesn't matter if there are so many registered in the ark and has 30 cows, should get another 20 acres of agricultural land. A cattleman who has 50 cows and 100 acres, that's not a priority. We have also taken care of current tenants, who have properly fulfilled their economic programmes. One of the conditions for tendering will be to deliver the current economic programme. If you wrote in that economic programme that you will be engaged in livestock farming and have a farm of 200 cows, and for 10 years you have been warlords, then you have not fulfilled your economic programme at the very least. We've taken care of, or taken care of, young farmers. They're very high in the ranking of priorities. Of course, in accordance with the provisions of the rural development programme, young farmers have therefore turned 40, up to 40 years, except for 41 years, at the top of their priorities for the assignment of state agricultural land. This law allows me to return only to the lease. The lease is paid for a period of 25 years with the annual control of the Ministry of Agriculture, with regular soil analyses of the land being leased, and may be extended after 25 years if you have properly completed your economic programme and have taken care of that state agricultural land with the care of the good master may be extended to another 25 years. It was in the first debate of various statements about the sale of land to foreigners and everything else. If we rent state agricultural land for 25 + 25 years there is no talk of selling state agricultural land to foreigners. The state doesn't sell it and doesn't want to sell it. And I'm asking you to keep it together. Speaking of sales, we only let small parcels sell for rounding purposes. So plots up to 10 ha on the continent and up to a hectare in the Adriatic. So a farmer can buy a plot of hectare, two or three state-owned to round his own, to give these small plots to our farmers, but not sell the plots of 20, 50, 100 or 500 ha. Anyone can buy up to 50 ha on the continent and up to 10 ha in the Adriatic. But if he bought it before, it was a DORH proposal and I think it's good, if he bought state agricultural land before and met that 50 ha quota he has no right now to buy that agricultural land. We took care of every possible potential I'd say irregularities that could occur, even though we're very creative here, and we still come up with a lot of things regardless of the law. So far, there has been a change of residence a week before a public call, or tender. It's what I'm gonna do with cattle, give me land, and I'm not really into it. Now we have limited it, so you must have a minimum residence in the area of the municipality where you apply for the lease of state agricultural land. For a minimum of 3 years, you have to have cattle so that you can report and compete for the lease of state agricultural land. I would also point out that we are trying to put this law into function and private agricultural land that has been abandoned, has grown, and is owned by an unknown or unknown residence. By proposing this law, we will make it available for up to 10 years to interested persons with a legally prescribed procedure with the payment of a lease which will be on the special account of the local self-government unit that the potential owner will at any time have a fee for that land and, of course, he will be able to enter that land if he ever shows up and wants to take that land back. The available programmes bring our municipalities and cities, go to the county, give them the consent of the Ministry of Agriculture. We put both the lawyers and the agronomists and the geodesy, plus two other representatives of the city or municipal council, not councilmen, but some other people who will do it in one real and quality way. Of course, the control of the DORH, with the control of the ministry, I think it is mandatory and that it is important and that it is something that can contribute to the control of all those who are asking and hoping for a fairer and more transparent division of the state agricultural land itself. The lease agreement itself is an executive document, so if you don't pay the rent you have to pay by the end of December, then when you get an advance, you pay the rent. If you are not paying rent or not managing that state agricultural land in the way you need us trials, there is no litigation, but an automatic executive document that you're going out of the country, you're being written out of the ARCOD, you don't get incentives, and someone else is going to use that country in the right way if you didn't do it. The municipalities and cities should, or should, adopt a make-up plan within three months of the date of adoption of this law. It's something municipalities and cities have been doing several times in the last 20 years. It's not an unknown to them. Someone's gonna say the deadlines might be shorter. I think we need to be quick and efficient here, that's something that can definitely be done within those deadlines. The ministry is obliged to bring in a number of sublegal acts. A good part of them has already been prepared, only the adoption of the law in the Croatian Parliament is awaiting. And so I believe there shouldn't be any bigger problems about it. I hope that after the adoption of this law, here and after a year, two, when the Ministry of Agriculture submits a report to the Croatian Parliament, which is and how it is done in this respect, we will be able to say that we manage state agricultural land in the right way, that we have completed all the contracts, that we know that there are no non-payments, that we know who pays or that everyone pays for the land to be processed and that it has been put into production function, and not as it has been in some cases in the capacity to receive incentives. The final draft of the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Law, and these amendments will be adopted when we talk about this part. Here's so much for now, I'm making myself available and we're here for any further clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68597	I thank the minister. We have 17 replicas. The first one is a respected Martha Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68598	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Minister. You have stated for this Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land that this law corrects the fact that so far has been great and that this is why agricultural production has not been developed and that this law has been passed by you and your people. However, when you look more closely at this bill, then the first thing that falls into your eyes, which is that there is no profession in this law. In fact, when you assign the highest quality agricultural country in Article 36, you are the only condition of the ESS, or some of the lowest conditions, by not stating which ESS is involved. I think it's the neglect of the profession because when you go to someone's highest quality agricultural country P1 and P2 then your goal is to make the country as efficient as possible, making the most of it, and finally the aim of this law is to encourage and develop agricultural production. Find any other activity to be carried out without you looking for high standards of expertise. Let's say here in forestry when you have the extraction of the wood mass of farmers, means when it gets from Croatian forests permission to extract wood from the forest that privateer must have an employed forestry engineer. Furthermore, you lack the profession in real estate sales and assessment. You're alleging that this is where the court's real estate experts have to be hired. Here again you miss your professions because to skill out agricultural land you need not only an appraiser of real estate but also a man who finished the agronomy. And as a third, when you're forming Okay. [[President: Thank you, your time is up. I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68599	Minister's reply to the replica now or will you end up? Let's move on then, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68600	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers. Everything you said would agree on the fact that pastures were assigned to people who had been encouraged, and in fact they had neither cattle nor were engaged in this activity, they were hired. You can obviously check this out now here in the section of Kamišnica and Svilaj and Sinjsko, the Cetina region so you can see who got the land, that those people who deal with livestock, mainly pastures are essentially assigned to people who no one knows. However, this law allows foreigners to buy land after 2020 and that private-owned agricultural land. Now that we've moved the peasants, when the money that was supposed to go to the OPGs, went to the tycoons who broke the economic system of Croatia and agriculture, now that these people of our farmers have gone from Slavonia example, like, the Dalmatian burns went out to Ireland or anywhere, we don't have cattlemen in that area, but we have agricultural land that will buy foreigners 2020. Well, the Hungarian referendum wasn't a foreign natural and legal person. You speak Licians in Sinj in Dalmatian Zagora using the land or not using it, it's chaos, it's easily verifiable. My key question is, why did the Hungarians ban the purchase of agricultural land, regardless of objections? It's a national strategic resource, so we can't let the whole of Slavonia buy us foreign legal and physical persons. And that's what's going to happen to you, you know, that empty Slavonia, Dalmatian Zagora, Lika and I think we should take this restriction down, that there's no easy possibility that foreign legal and physical persons are buying our country. There's no problem with what Lichan is doing in the Cetina region or in the Cetina region of the country in Lika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68601	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68602	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. A law that is ineffective, which is undeveloped, which has made first a lot of problems on the ground of course that should also change the intensity of this law as you have said is that it suits the OPGs in the Republic, young farmers and has and is visible both this law and that demographic component. What is most important to me in this law, which has often been said in this House, is that the Agricultural Land Agency has been abolished and that you have given yourself one pain in the adoption of this law to bring things down to local self-government units. This is very important and I very much welcome it and should be followed by other ministries in the Republic of Croatia and I think that would be very effective. However, what I would like to warn you about, so the Republic of Croatia is different as regards agricultural land, those 56% and it is not the same in Slavonia or in the mountainous area and it is not the same in Istria or in Dalmatia Zagora, in Lica, Banovina in agricultural land that is a fragile land, where there are many of these cliphatic things, bays, bays, caves and the fact that such power will not be arranged until the end, that one part of that land will remain unregulated through these natural and biological diversity, and I think that you need to keep an eye on it. I'm glad to see that between these two readings, and I've seen that with the Committee on Agriculture, a lot of the things that were on the board have been accepted as such. And something else about article 39, I think a colleague from Slavonski Brod touched it, so the commission... that is paragraph 2, in the possession of these 3 [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There you should see you could be units of local... [[Intruder President: Thank you fellow Babic, time.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68603	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Vlaovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68604	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. I welcome on behalf of the HSS Club and in my name a debate on this law because there is no development of agriculture and villages without agricultural land and since agriculture is a strategic branch, how we are interested in producing food to be sufficient in the Republic of Croatia for the production of food, for all the needs of our inhabitants, the need to protect and protect our population, the domestic population and the good that it is included in the law and gives it a good level of advantage, the OPG placed in the high first place. However, it is not good that it is in the same rank as it is with small and micro businesses. Because the small company is up to 50 employees and up to 10 million euros in traffic, I don't think the OPG can compete with such an economy, and if we want to protect the OPG then we have to have an advantage, and I think that it should have been in previous laws and continue to have the advantage of that OPG, whose holder is mostly engaged in agriculture instead of living off agriculture, only in that way we can protect him that he has that 117 transaction that proves that this is his basic income and thus protect the OPGs. In this case, some law firm that has excess capital can buy you 100 head of cattle and take the land on the ground and have more points on the competition than the OPG. And the second thing I wanted to point out was one problem, well that the availability is returned to the units of local self-government which was politics and HHS, but the problem is that there are no arranged records that over 500 million kuna renters owe or concessionaries to the state... and the concession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who are those who owe? Why doesn't it get published? Who's he protecting? There's some big ones who'll be mastering the country tomorrow. We think it must be a domicillical OPG that lives mostly on agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68605	Fifth replica, dear fellow Panenic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68606	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I am pleased to see that in your speech you have pointed out a number of problems facing Croatian agriculture, in fact, it is signifying and concluded, there needs to be a comprehensive reform in all parts and there is absolutely support for all of us. And also with this law of expectations, I say expectations because I'm going to say that I don't see that they've been fulfilled they've been made agrarian reform. That there will be one significant shift from the practice we have so far and that this law will define that those who are really engaged in agricultural production, i.e. those whose activity is essential shall have absolute priority in the allocation. On the other hand, you yourself have said the OPGs as one basis of development and vision and yours and you stress that they should have priority and the OPG Act itself that you are proposing actually confirms the intention that they should be key to development. But here they are not high enough and you have to admit that the OPGs are the fourth priority. The young people you mentioned are the third priority, and now that we have gone through these priorities, most of the country that was available, after the implementation of the new competition call that will be under this law, how much you think the countries will come and that they will be able to dispose of young people or how much OPG will be available to the OPGs at the highest priority. I think what you said to previous tenants is, yes, if they're dealing with only basic agricultural production it doesn't stand, it's not in there or that it has to be an O.P.G. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68607	The sixth replica of the esteemed colleague Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68608	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. I believe that when you wrote this law, you did it for the best of all, and surely it was your intention to recover the situation in agriculture, but I know from experience that all the former ministers have done the laws in the best possible way. What we have in agriculture today, we have chaos. What we can all agree on is not a good situation. Speaking of the Ministry of Agriculture, we can say freely that it is a really challenging ministry, why? Honestly, there's a lot that's wrong and everything can actually go for the better in my opinion, because worse in the ministry, it's almost impossible to go. I listened especially to you and you said that so far in the ministry and state agricultural land was not well managed, I agree. And then you said it was a big deal. Well, I'm afraid this law will please the big one, and now I'm going to be specific and I'm going to read why I think it is. It is said in Article 36 that “the rights of the public tender have natural and legal persons who participated in the competitions in the following order, the holders of the OPGs or the owner of the agricultural craft or legal person in the rank of micro and small enterprises.” And I will now read to you what the article says, according to the Accounting Act, Article 5 of the classification of entrepreneurs, small businesses are active up to 30 million kunas up to 60 million kunas of traffic and 50 employees. In my opinion, I can teach almost all major companies. And now that we're talking, it's my opinion that this law will once again please those great ones, let's stop it. I think this law in a lot of things is going for better, but let's keep it from being great again, and that's why I think this law should work, not just in this article, but in something else that I'm going to say on behalf of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68609	Next replica, dear colleague Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68610	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. I could almost give up on the replica because the predecessors said more or less everything I wanted to say, but I will warn you of a few details, which is that by this law you still allow small doors to sell state agricultural land, it should be treated as property of special national interest and not sell it. This land should be managed in order to increase production which will be competitively imported. Furthermore, this already, famous art. The 36th mentioned several times today, in fact, to throw out the priorities of these small businesses, counterpart Prelec has now explained why. Don't let those small businesses get in the way, if they were found to be HDZ sponsors, it would be really ugly to talk about it. The priority, of course, should have current owners, cattle without land, so young, and when we talk about the domicile population, it can't happen, how can it happen, that in your county, in one municipality, where there were 485 hectares of land, where there was a domicile population, which was supposed to have that country, to get the company from Istria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68611	Dear colleague Šipic, it's your turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68612	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with his associates. In your opening statement, often times, you mentioned favoration, illogicality, old law, a lot of things, what you said in the opening word, has practically blocked many, today, mouth, so to speak, picturesquely, because all that was done before or what you found, or what you want to change, practically, by this new bill, I believe will be forgotten. This approach, the appropriate approach, which you highlight is the correct path. This bill lays down fairer criteria than the laws so far. For the Cetinski end, and for other areas in the Republic of Croatia, for our cattlemen, and for other farmers, it is important that transparently, and relying precisely on this bill, they come into possession, agricultural law, in order to revive, agriculture and produce food. Local self-government units know best who really needs agricultural land. With the help of the ministry and this bill, it is possible to develop a quality programme for agricultural land. As we consider how all together, to help stop the negative trends in demographics, we can freely say that this law opens up space for young people and families to create a new path to life. Good emphasis on the OPGs, good accent, right on the family. As already seen and the results of the new income tax are visible, which also brings new taxes that bring profit and aid directly to all units of local self-government, so this law, I believe, can bring a new step to all members and municipalities. Hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68613	Thank you. The 9th replica of the esteemed colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68614	Thank you, well-respected President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. I'd like to know how you comment on the criticisms that have been made by the fruit and vegetable associations, on the proposed bill. They argue that according to the rural development programme, their sectors should be priority, and in law, these principles are not adopted. They claim that in Croatia, vegetables and fruit production, only up to 60% of the needs are covered, that production needs to be increased, but unfortunately, we have a constant trend of decline in production, and then they wonder why this law does not allow them, therefore, to get priority status when there are needs. It seems that in this way only those who are being leased for livestock production, and on the other hand, we have a strange fact that, as much as they share the land for livestock farming, production in livestock is constantly falling off, so there is a suspicion that it's actually about guessing. On the one hand, therefore, to those who do not use the land, for the purpose for which they are given it, and on the other hand to benefit from import lobbys. Here, if you can comment on that, it's usually official attitudes, which were also set up by the Assembly Committee on Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68615	Thank you, too. The 10th is next, dear colleague Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68616	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, well, before I give you one proposal, I would like to repeat some of your words, which you recently said, namely, you were surprised, you said, like this, never again incentives, never again money in agriculture, and production is getting smaller. Today, you said the same thing, you actually stated here, which is the main incentive for the development of Croatian agriculture, so you said that land should not be given for the purpose of receiving incentives, but for the purpose of raising production. And I think it's crucial, we in Croatian agriculture, we have to raise production. And that's why I asked you on the current morning, why are you leaving the information system? If you're already leaving the agency, actually available land, giving local self-government, leaving the agency, and then the information system is shutting down, which is not good at all. Well, then I have a correct suggestion. Here, you won't have to record land from air, water, drones, satellites, send your inspectors to the villages, send them to the inn, in front of the shops, pay people 2 beers, or 2 sodas, in half an hour they'll have all the information, who's available to the agricultural land, who's in the sublet, who hasn't paid, you'll have a complete database that day. And you can handle it. That's very important, because if we don't make agricultural land available, believe me, an increase in agricultural production won't come. And one such question, for you personally, I will answer you what I would do. Would you own your land, have a private land, give, per hectare for 400 kuna rents a year? I'll answer you, I wouldn't give it, even my father doesn't do it, he does it, let people process it. The price of renting agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is too low, it is unfair, not only is it too low, it is unfair. According to many small producers, and because of that, it's important that you have data. And who pays the rent, does he pay it regularly? What is the lease of that land and, after all, how disproportionate it is with the incentive it receives. These are important things for the development of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68617	Let's move on, dear colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68618	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Tolusic in Art. The 36nd paragraph 2 sets out the advantage of awarding, therefore, in tenders, the economic value of the agricultural holding between 8 and 100 000 euros. It is not clearly indicated in this article, nor before, nor after who assesses the value of the holding, who assesses and according to what criteria. Let's think of it as a loan. Banks have different ways of assessing, and there we have seen a number of manipulations, especially if we consider market movements. We know before the crisis is one value, after the crisis is another value. So I'm asking you to explain exactly who and by what criteria the value of the agricultural holding is estimated. And another thing, I hope you look back at her. Why in Croatia the incentives would not be given towards the exit, according to production. So if you have 50,000 tons on some surface one year, you can estimate how long it should be next year. This way, if we give on the surface, we have seen the situation that has led to Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68619	Now it's my dear colleague Culey's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68620	Dear Minister, I would return to your predecessor who we now do not know where he is, or what he is doing, and it is possible that he is working for someone he has favored as a minister, and especially with regard to incentives, land assignments and so forth. We all know that this same minister was not able to run his trade in agricultural products, the agricultural pharmacy, and he ran one ministry that resulted in this situation that we now have in the agricultural sector. I will not say that the same minister particularly favors a group with 100 million incentives, thus destroying all the small ope-gayers who were reporting for special programmes for rural development and survival in the country at that time. All the ministers are coming, everyone's leaving, everyone's leaving order or mess and nobody's answering for it. I'm in one Anti-Corruption Council, and I expect to get at least once on the table one item for any state official in Croatia so it'll be number one, number one, to go from something to something. Because if we receive reports like that every year or after some ministry, it won't be any of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68621	Dear fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68622	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Ministers you stated in your presentation that the law allowed the purchase of neighbouring parcels on the continent to 10 ha, and in the coast to one hectare. However, if we take the situation on the ground, for example north of Croatia, Varazdin County, Krapina-Zagorska, Međimurska, Koprivnica-križevska we come to one problem, and that is the great dryness of agricultural parcels. For example, in the area of Varazdin County the average size of agricultural land is 0.17 ha. So, you, in order to even get to the point of having one hectare of land, you have to buy from five, six neighbors a country that is mostly privately owned because there is very little state land in northern Croatia. Now my question may not be about the law, but it's about whether the ministry plans on certain incentives to try to stimulate the owners of agricultural land to round up these private plots. Because you'll agree that at 0.17 hectares of agricultural land, it's impossible to deal with even more serious agricultural production, and it's extremely difficult to round up. So far, legal solutions have gone towards allowing farmers to punish landowners who, therefore, do not process their parcel. These solutions have not yielded any results. So, I think we should stimulate the interested to allow them to buy those land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68623	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68624	Dear Minister, I wish from my heart you all the best wishes and that you were well-intentioned. Just a quick question. You don't have to answer now. I'll get to you. Like this. These endless discussions on these legal proposals, the laws remind me of an endless day, that film "Endless Day" where man wakes up every morning and it all repeats itself again, all repeats in the same scenario. We have the same scenario. We have countless laws, no implementation on the ground, zero, absolutely zero. Like this. I've been a soldier for most of my life, have our ministers ever heard of formal and informal inspections on the ground that you come to the field, see what's going on on on the ground. I was walking there, before I talked about it, scribe's etc. where the oak forest is drawn. No one's responding. They thought I was the inspector there some characters up there, and theirs said here, so that's, we're Croats, it's Croatian forest. That means you've found chaos, that's what you're talking about here. What's the most important factor? There's people. Are your men well paid? Are their seats safe? Are those air-conditioned gonna tell you what's wrong? We've got a lot of air-conditioned people here fighting for work, for the safety of their children's education, etc. What about two, you said that 2.5 million kunas were spent in digitization. Those are your words, I listened to you here and that the absolute effect is zero, zero. I'm talking like a parrot here for the fifth time, take a private company from outside if you have to, pay them a modest price, they'll arrange for you, they'll give you satellite footage, they'll edit geodetic data and give each owner a PIN number so that no one can copy to his particle. In the end, what is the core of all these problems that are being silenced here? It is that in Croatia, private property was taken away from people, confiscation. The Austrians are looking for a return. It's already ratified that I know the ratification of such a contract. We don't have a database, and comrades know what they're doing besides that, and they're acting like Democrats. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68625	Thank you, colleague Glasnović. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Djakic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68626	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, here's what you're talking about is the intensities of the new Agricultural Land Act. I'll remind you of what your predecessors said about when they passed the new law. Mr. Jakovina said, the reasons why we went with the new law are actually a number of obstacles that slowed the process and the process of making agricultural land available through the sale of leases and long-term leases. And so he longed to put all the agricultural land into operation helped to make it even more desolate and unprocessed. And therefore your intention to return to the management of agricultural land and tendering for local self-government is very good and commendable and we would like to stress that that famous programme of economic availability that carried 60 points for those who had fulfilled 14 of those standards that they were carrying and could only be large, clearly from which kitchen they came and who made it. When spouses work one in giants, and the other in the ministry then these results come to light and visible, which we warned that the law was written where it should not be written. Therefore, we have seen these irregularities clearly that the small one will not be able to reach 100 tractors, a thousand employees and all of those forms that were in the economic programme can only be obtained for large ones. We believe that this law will bring about justice and that you have corrected all the important mistakes that have been made in the past, and especially centralisation through an agency that has proved to be dysfunctional.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68627	Thank you. And the last replica of my esteemed colleague, Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68628	Mr. Honorable President, Your Honor. What you mentioned by making agricultural land available without the knowledge of the owners who are inaccessible, thus entering the constitutional category, such attempts have already fallen in the Constitutional Court. And here is the land that is private property that determines the price and chooses the one that will be used with it. What about the funding units of local self-government that need to implement the programmes, since we have programs that have already been adopted and now we're going to waste money and time again, why aren't these programs being used again? So that possibility doesn't exist in the law. Our village is relaxed, Slavonia is empty, Lika, Gorski Kotar, people have fled across Europe, and we are still not favoring the OPGs, but we are equating it with micro and small businesses. So small companies 50 employees, how many do you think 50 employees are that the amount of land they need to become in wartime with 50 employees. So this is how we revive the PICs that we destroyed. Those who then determined it, we are now re-created in another way by some PICs that will be owned by some kind of private property. Now, do we now favor someone great again or is this an accident, and I believe that's not an accident. We had a recent European Commission representative who indirectly explained that we should allow the purchase of agricultural land to foreigners as soon as possible and that this price should not be above seven thousand euros, although there are 12.5,000 euros in Europe. So I'm wondering, was the request for a three-year moratorium to buy strangers filed? We believe that this law, which is the 18th law that has been passed over the past 27 years, does not provide any security to the OPGs, and I think you need to change it and favour the OPGs. Of course, we also need micro-enterprises and small businesses, especially those dealing with processing and storage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68629	This is what we've exhausted all the replicas. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? A colleague of Panenic, chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68630	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. At its 35th session, held on 19 January, the Croatian Parliament's Agricultural Committee discussed the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act as a home working body. What was mentioned in the opening statement was that the implementation of the Agricultural Land Act should create preconditions for the survival of rural areas. A number of proposals from the Agriculture Committee have also been adopted in the debate on first reading relating to a clearer definition of agricultural land, time obligations, soil analysis, the regulation of the jurisdiction of the head or mayor for proposing a programme for agricultural land, the establishment of departments or offices that adopt the programme as well as deadlines for the same. In addition to that proposal, the applicant accepted a proposal to shorten the deadline for the County's opinion on the agricultural land distribution programme. On the proposal of the Committee, a period for paying the rent was extended, a deadline was set for the acquisition of wood mass by the Croatian forests in the deforestation of agricultural land, a period of lease of common pastures was extended, new criteria were added for the allocation of ponds and defined areas of P1 and P2 of extremely valuable agricultural land which could be extremely sold. Also in this law it was passed that the adoption... ceased the work of the Agency for Agricultural Land, and jobs and employees of the Agency took over the Ministry of Agriculture. In the debate, the committee members positively assessed the acceptance of the comments made in the debate, but there were also a number of objections that were not accepted, but in this debate on the final proposal and some proposals were re-emerged before representatives of the ministry as e.g. that the provisions of Article 36(1), which lay down the criteria of the right of the public tender for the lease of agricultural land, should be excluded from small enterprises because it will result in the exercise of rights, which will again affect the fundamental intensity of the applicants, which is the retention of the population in rural areas. In the law... an advantage in the exercise of the right to lease... should also provide for vegetables and fruit production, taking into account also the funds achieved by vegetables and fruit plants from operation 4.1.1. and 4.1.2. Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia. The debate highlights the conflict of views concerning the exercise of the right to lease, primarily related to the criterion of domicileness, and the view that the absence of available agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in some units of local self-government of these local self-government and valid leases also requires the extension of to neighbouring units of local self-government or some proposals that went to a certain distance of up to 50km. It is expressed as being related to the criterion of domicileness, which requires the provision of exceptions, and which can be prescribed by sublegal acts. It has been warned that the implementation of Article 36(1)b will lead to other agricultural producers and legalise illegalities in the allocation of agricultural land by means of a contract on temporary use. In addition to Article 36(1) C, it is proposed to grant the right of the Championship in the case of young farmers, as a measure of retaining young people in rural areas and promoting the acquisition of agricultural production, and to provide for the possibility of giving agricultural areas up to 10 hectares, young families, with clearly defined conditions. Because this will not result in the exercise of the right before a state legal solution. In further discussion, warned of the need to ensure the right of the farmers who wish to join or already act in some form of association. The non-compliance of the final proposal with operations 4.1.1, 4.1.2. of the rural development programme, related to the maximum area of agricultural land, has also been warned. It is also pointed out that new owners, which will be opened to new tenders, should be freed from the obligations arising from previous availability and access to the establishment of a state of availability for agricultural land, and in particular from the agricultural land allocated to cattle farmers without making a public call. For the timely collection of agricultural land use, it is also indicated that there is a need, i.e. the need to restrict the right to pay for agricultural production, which do not pay compensation. The problem has been highlighted and related to the acquisition of wood after deforestation of agricultural land which is not in the function of agricultural production and the need to extend the deadlines for decommissioning from 2 to 4 years. It is also stated that it is necessary to delete the provision of a bank guarantee at the cost of placing agricultural land in the function of agricultural production. As well as the possibility of payment for the purchase, and not how this is passed on to the provision of Article 70 once within 30 days. It has been warned that in relation to current availability, not all agricultural areas have been recorded in the ARCOD, which is the reason for the achievement of the gray zone. It has been warned that local self-government units are bringing programmes, that it is not necessary to limit the sale of cadastrian particles by way of a public tender to 10 hectares. It warns of the need to issue agricultural areas, which are located under the management of the Croatian forests, within the forest economic area and put into operation agricultural production, as well as the burden on the competent offices of state administrations, or the Office for Agriculture and Forestry, in cases, to determine the compensation, for changing the purpose of agricultural land. The implementation of the right of the championship, in respect of the lease of agricultural land, the introduction of the criteria of domicileness, the applicant wants to protect agricultural producers from possible speculation, and the same, in line with the association of municipalities, the association of cities, is highlighted by the proposing representative, with a specified deadline of 3 years until the publication of the lease tender, would avoid the possibility of artificial creation, artificial conditions for the achievement of the championship. It is acceptable for the proposer to exclude small companies from the criteria of the right of the championship, while the priority remains micro-enterprises and that units of local self-government should be self-determined agricultural areas that will make available to individual users. And people dealing with vegetables and fruit production are guaranteed the right of the championship, at o is prescribed by additional criteria. And to remind you that it's an art. 3. the final proposal provides for the possibility of demarcating agricultural areas from the forest economic area. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, most of the votes, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68631	Kolega Panenić, will stay right away, because I am opening the debate, and the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and as we have told our colleague Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68632	Thank you very much, President. Today we are here with another proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, as said on 18th, with some changes in sublegal acts, and I think some numbers go up to 27. And every time we come and look at this law, as something that will meet great expectations, and of course you have expectations. The villagers expect this law to be a real change. Expectations, in fact, that will finally be carried out continuously, promises reward reform, which will be to the extent of the peasants. And why is that? Because the peasants watch their country go deeper and deeper down. As a property, those kids who have more tutors, so each one of those tutors puts something in their pocket, takes every single thing, and eventually there's nothing left for them. But what are they looking for? They want a fair ending, they want to be a master on their own, they don't want to pay other people's bills, they don't want to be a coin, that... It won't interfere with any policy of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they have objections, some of these key remarks I will make in this debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge. The first is that the laws bring agrarian reform, he's just a follower of previous laws. This is one of the variations and we don't see a key change. Is what to say after the previous 17 laws, which are effects and I would like to do, and that we have brought here an impact assessment, which will be how they will make this key step away from the previous laws and why so far there have been 750,000 hectares of unprocessed land and how will this law put the 750,000 hectares into operation quickly? Then the question arises, who is the law intended for? Speculators, lobbyists, merchants, we believe that in Art. 36. The priority must be clearly indicated, it is priority for those who are engaged in agricultural production as a primary activity those whose agricultural production and in its form act as a micro-enterprise that this is practically their only income. This law does not define who is being encouraged. We listened to the minister and I noted, everyone swears to the OPD, raises them to pedestal by making a new OPG law, but they unfortunately don't have any. It is mentioned here and there and in some sum someone could draw such a conclusion, but it is not clear that the OPG has a priority. They are placed in the same category according to this proposal and with micro and small enterprises, so neither the OPG Act nor this one gives them any real advantage. Furthermore, the minister said the inspection would do its job, I wonder what inspections, what capacity, within which deadline they can determine. And what is the Minister's key, are we going to send these inspections to state land first? Let's be honest here and say some inspections go first into state land to write down all these penalties that will be to the state, that the state has to approach and carry out all these actions, so when we're like the state and those who here some state institutions could say clean cheeks, we're willing to do this to ourselves, so let's now edit further. No, we'll turn to the smaller ones, sanction them, force them, and then there'll be some problems. Here we have now and about the problem of yellow in the vineyards, which is the biggest remarks, where it comes from land owned by the Republic of Croatia that is abandoned. Let's go first. But in order not to be all going to the state, of course, that the municipalities that are now obliged to have agricultural directors on this proposal, I will also ask you colleagues who are the leaders of local self-government and all those who, first of all, send those monks to force justice into the land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Let's be in it concise, do that part, and then eventually we can say, well now it's a state situation, so when the state itself that prescribes this can make others. What else can we conclude from this? The soil analysis as one of the measures, we will all agree, which is necessary for quality serious production, has its advantages until we reach some financial effects where those who do not are sanctioned. And also if we look at that there are about a million and 300 thousand parcels in ARCOD, the price of one sample of 300 kuna, 4 currently authorized laboratories that is 400 million kunas will achieve income or agricultural producers receive a new parafiscal charge that is mandatory. And you would understand that in the sense that the state gives its land and wants to return it in a state in which they gave it or in some better condition, so we as the owner, the master all want it. But how do we want to affect someone’s private production, his private property? Maybe he has a different view of how it should be. But mostly we have a lot of resources, and maybe it's better in the end that some of us who see business opportunities don't become more representatives than let's open a lab and participate in that cake. That's what this reading of all of these laws and before it always raises the same question, when we will allow more peasants to file a complaint. Only our Croatian peasants never have the right to appeal, it was taken away from them by all proposals. I'd also go back to some troublesome items, giving land into a lease that was mined. Minister, will you bear the responsibility of someone taking that land and trying their luck to plow in and blow up a little bit? I don't want to, I don't want to participate in this because I think that the state needs not only mined land but any land to be given in a state that is intended for agricultural production and as such to make income. I think it is really an obligation for the Croatian state to demine, arrange, clean up, and then, without risk, surrender to someone to manage it. Unfortunately, we didn't get a solution for those who usurped the country. How do you remove them? There's still a commitment, you get to rent a certain land, and someone wants us out, and then what? Whose obligation is that? I believe when a state surrenders to someone, it must give them the land free of all rights, obligations, usurpation and all, and not that it becomes a new object of the dispute that someone is looking forward to the contract, and when it comes to a real situation on the ground, then he sees none of it. There is little intricacies to try to comment on, the article 11 says, under agritechnical measures, a ban on the removal of humus is set. I've never seen an agrotechnical measure carried out as a restraining order. So it's just not an agrotechnical measure, so here we should still find a correction, because this is highly incorrect. According to the previous law, we had the possibility that usurped land could still be charged by a temporary contract that someone could not use for years, but that local self-government would determine a specific agricultural parcel that someone was processing, force him to pay for such a situation by that temporary contract and to charge for it backwards. You have an example of where you charge back a couple and more years at five years and someone is willing to pay, because you simply face that you have to pay. But with this bill of law, it all ends. What will happen to the time that passed when someone usurped? Nothing to anyone. So no more models. Even those contracts that are the agency will stop all procedures. What's going to happen to that? Why not charge it if it is established, accepted and I will say usurper for good or bad purposes. And eventually it will pass, it stops, he is not obliged to pay for what he used. In Article 36, another one of the illogicalities is when the priority is given to having someone who has a production facility in their possession, in fact, which means having, having. I can have this pen over there that I borrowed from my colleagues this morning, but I've got it and I'm working with it. Is it property or is it a lease? Is that a contract between the two companies? Is that contract retroactive? How do you measure that contract? Where does he get it? When did his record come up? I don't know a single register that records it. You can sign the contract, we signed the contract on 1.1.2014, I'll pay you with 31.1.2018 the total amount we signed. Two business entities signed, certified by the official seals of their companies, and for them it is a legitimate business document. How are we going to determine the property of a manufacturing facility somewhere? Are we going to measure that way or are we going to let that be in the domain of speculation again? What worries me most is when the first priority comes to giving priority to cattlemen who can agree on how it will develop locally. When the witch hunts, who has achieved artificially created conditions throughout all these years? Who was the one who had even given before the hope that those who didn't have enough land to get, so people separated, got by, were able to get what they couldn't get people their own ability to show through thinking up ideas. And in the end, now he says okay. They'll have a priority. But who's going to determine that? Who will lead these wars by local self - administrations in which they will need to prove that someone is artificially created, someone is not, who will be the evidence, what actions will be. I think we've got a lot of loose ends here. But here I will finally say that although farmers face today's difficulties, tomorrow they still dream, dream that this nation will one day rise up and be at the level of our own belief in the truth that we keep clear that all humans are created equal. So what now? We should continue to fight for a new world, a decent one that will give people a chance to work, work on their own land that will give them the future and for the old days. For by such a promise, this ruling majority came to power, but they do not keep what they promised. I don't think so. And now we need to fight to keep these promises and we need to fight to make the world of reason, a world in which justice will lead to a real solution and agricultural producers, small agricultural producers and all those who have great expectations from both this law and this minister, the ministry, the government. But unfortunately, we don't have a picture through the proposals that are coming. The bridge of independent lists will not support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68633	Thank you. We have more replicas on your exhibit. Let's start with the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68634	Thank you very much. A colleague of Panenić, you said and you emphasized it and in fact it is true and first reading. 24 of the comments made on this bill in the first reading were not accepted either, so it would be good to go to the third reading, because I simply don't believe that no remark was good, and especially since you said that the OPG has no priority here because the stronger law remains, that clutches. In fact, I'd define here, I'd do it again, and I'd say it again before, where money sounds and justice stutters. Because here for sure, peasant, little O.P.G. won't be an advantage. And the key problem is this law I continue to repeat and I also ask you a question and you are the chairman of the board, whether a Croatian citizen, legal or natural person in Hungary can buy agricultural land. As far as I know, he can't. And why can Hungarian, and in Croatia, according to this law, Hungarians and legal and physical persons buy? Agricultural land is a strategic and national interest which three keep and exclusively be in the basic and demographic reconstruction and return of our people to those areas. However, this law clearly pleases the rich. That's a fact. From more than you've said, and I think all these proposals that have been rejected should at least have been considered. But the fact is, it's time for a third reading. This is too serious a law to play with the OPGs and the PR discharges from the ministry absolutely untrue. The peasant of Croatia must know that the lies in this law are to protect the OPG and you have made it very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68635	The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68636	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull. You yourself brought out what's from our previous position, it's with land in terms of the possibility of foreign citizens exercising an absolute right unscathed right to buy land is something that we put out as our point of view, I didn't want to repeat it. I've brought up some more important reasons. And I'm going to accept your proposal here, and we're going to make an amendment with a proposal to go into third reading because we think we're going to contribute to that no matter what the position is somehow mine, it's very difficult to make a law out of this proposal that's really going to achieve these objectives that are being declared. But let's give the Minister and his associates a chance to agree on the views and what will now be in the debate in the Assembly to give perhaps a better quality solution that will welcome all associations of agricultural producers, not to have the pressures that are listed and the minister where they threaten certain protests where there will be problems or something that has been a problem so far that will not be solved. Thus, we will certainly direct this proposal to the third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68637	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic. There's a few things I'd like to say that I'm being told by your debate. In fact, when you look at article 36 you mentioned this cattle sector we strengthen and God knows that the cattle sector has suffered the most and suffered through the crisis and everything that has happened since the disease, now the last disease has been curly skin in cattle, etc. But as long as we don't have a farming strategy for me at least, until we know where we're going in which direction, whether it's livestock, whether it's warfare that's breeds or what cultures it is, we're doing an ad hoc measure, and so on. We constantly base ourselves and develop our agriculture and rural space on ad hoc measures. We encourage young farmers and it is said in additional criteria, seed production if someone is engaged if they are a warlord and are concerned with seed production they are additional points, but seed production does not deal with small, very, very rarely and generally do not deal with young people who are just moving into business. This is what big ones do, and it indirectly suits the big ones. Education is not at all a criterion for the country's allocation, it is only seen in case both of the same points are reported, but in my view, education at least what the SSS in agriculture is very important if someone wants to be a good, quality farmer and master of state land. He says the minister will watch the old economic programs, and then I wonder what happened to the man who got the country according to the economic programme and said he'd buy a hundred head of cattle, bought fifty in the meantime there was a crisis, had to liquidate those throats, moved to sheepkeeping or warfare, what about now with a man like that? Shall we take away his land, shall we take away his bread? So we have this very, very many questions that are left unsaid and this hot potato will in some way now be pushed by local self-government units to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68639	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68640	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, of course, is always a matter of law and some higher acts. I believe that the strategy is the highest act that allows for a comfortable space of work of the ministry as well as the minister who has a strategy. The laws should be consistent with it and your responsibility as a proposing is significantly lower. In this way, it is the minister who bears absolute responsibility for this, the government is permissive, the ruling majority will support it and therefore it is something that the minister's proposal and expectations will be all about the minister as such. When this is adopted, too, we will be able to measure what has been declared and, of course, as an opposition, warn that this does not take place according to what was expected. And what you said for the economic program is a real problem where I believe now that you're going to look at previous tenants, everyone's well-intentioned most of them, I'm not going to say all of that, but most of them have certainly written an economic programme with good intentions in the time it was written. And when someone wrote the programme in 2003, in 2004 under different economic conditions he wrote just things about progress, development and everything. Whether he is to blame for the global economic crisis and whether he bears the guilt that the Croatian governments did not give a good answer to the crisis, so the entire sectors collapsed. Programmes that were for the development of livestock, dairy, vegetables, fruit growing, viticulture have collapsed. We have an HBOR that has a lot of real estate problems that take over based on deposits that don't know what to do. That agricultural producer can't help it and we'll leave it to the local self-governments to look for witches and force the former and present guilt to the government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68641	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68642	Thank you. Dear colleague. At the beginning of your presentation, you've made it very clear that this law, probably like all of these, will not encourage the development of agriculture, and I must fully agree with you. This law is primarily almost prescribed by the 2008 law related to the allocation of agricultural land and nothing important changes there and we have not received anything revolutionary by this law. The same problems remain on the ground. Here's the minister said we'll see how this law applies in a year. We can already know that this great result will not be because on the ground are the same problems, and this is the problem of not rounding up land, the minister has stopped the process of combating the situation in agriculture, and then we still have unresolved ownership relations and we still have those non-execution lease agreements, so these are some priorities that must be resolved so that they can then go into the quality division of the remaining or those that are abandoned agricultural land. And as for here, I will also draw attention to a detail of what this 2008 law is really bad and overwritten. In this law, we now have a agricultural inspection where there is no indication of what conditions they must meet to be agricultural inspectors. So for the first time, we don't have professional conditions for agricultural inspection and under number two, these agricultural inspectors are not in a two-stage administrative surveillance procedure. So as soon as they reach a solution, it's an administrative act, and now they're asking whether it's already some senior, republican inspectors, or whether they're still those inspectors on the ground with the same technical equipment, so these are some gaps that haven't been prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68643	Thank you, the reply to the replica of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68644	Dear colleagues, I'm actually going to say the words that I said at the beginning and at the end of my presentation, those are words that are decades old, some over 100 years old. It wasn't my personal words, I was quoting them, it might not have sounded like that, but in fact, everything I said I didn't hear here that someone said it didn't fit this time. Not only does it not fit this time but it really does, and it seems to fit our future as well. So we are in no way able to solve this problem, and what has been warned for decades, centuries ago, we are constantly facing real problems, and then it's happened, and it's happening now, in the future there's going to be conjecture, and it's not like that hillbilly who cries out through those words and cries out for change, that he becomes the number one subject, around him that the whole story is spinning, but always nominally indicated, is always the one he's mentioned, but in reality when he comes he's not the one who needs to benefit from it. And this inspection thing, I can only say that the easiest thing to do is, in every law, always make it go away. Let's set the amount and the size of the fine, but then they find themselves in the problem not only of the users but also of the inspectors who need to go around huge terrains, who need to assess the indeterminateness of all these reasons why the farmer so far tells them I couldn't, I wasn't ready, there was no funds, there was no money, and the law prescribes everything. So we're going to regulate everything by law, and now we're going to have the Final Proposal of the OPG Act where we're also going to punish ourselves again, that we're going to punish for one panel. Also here, which all inspections will be sanctioned if that's the aim of the law, then we don't have real agrarian reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68645	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68646	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Panenic, on this example I will now show that it is not good, the future Rules of Procedure plan to ban replicas of the same club. So I don't agree with you in this work when you say that we won't support the MOST club law because it didn't accept these reasonable remarks, but only because I don't see personally in this legislative proposal that it will go into the post of raising agricultural production. If the minister convinces me of that, even in this debate, then I'll vote for it, but I don't see this law going that way. Why is that? This is an extremely important law, agricultural land is an extremely important resource. As Minister of Economy, you know well that there is no economic growth unless resources are put into good function. At this point, agriculture is a weight of economic growth. We are making economic growth and agriculture is recording downs and is, in fact, a weight. And that's why it's very important to bring order into the management of these resources and that's what's missing from this law. It's leaving the information system, we don't know who has the land, how much debt has been paid across the country on the basis of leases, who's subletting the country, who's actually not processing it, and what the minister has emphasized here, who's solely the country for incentive. Now you're right to ask, and who will lead the order, the municipal chiefs? Their directors? And what if the farmers who have already settled in the area, who have significantly been financially strengthened, what if they have financed the chief's campaign? What if they were directly involved in the election promotion? Who's going to introduce order in that sense? You come, I'll take you, I've got pictures here, we've got pictures of orchards, look out there are incentives, I don't know now, 5, 6 thousand kuna per hectare, and there are acacias, acacias. You can sing free “Don’t break my acacia”. And it can still be sung with us, "I'll be a real fairytale in my village, while I'll buy a boost at the garage."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68647	A reply to the replica of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68648	I'm glad we're at the same club, so there's always a chance that someone might say I don't want to, and we're laughing. I'd like to convince you and any of us individually so that this position that was the club's position eventually doesn't stop individually and we'll say we'll support it. It's natural and normal for us, and we don't have to be alarmed by any statement that someone is going to say hello now, how you from the club stand down, from the club's point of view, from someone, what the club means. Let's deal with real problems, not what the position of the club, party or some interest group is and in fact that's what we're trying to change in this law, to show that there are conflicts of interest groups, individuals that affect political structures. Once upon a time it might have been... Well, maybe through the ministries, the agency, a lot of dissatisfactions, now is it or isn't, it doesn't matter at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, with this going to switch to local self-government where you can also, have potential and we recognize the possibility of that happening and again there will be calls and questions about who it is and it would be really good to see how the local leader tells most of his people who have so far been hired, your economic program is not the way you should have spent it, you have no right to apply. I believe that then the tractors will tear up his roads and still charge him for passing the tractor something because it will be a significant cost to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68649	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Panenic, who has put a skeptic on this new law, that the law in Croatian agricultural land is easy to write. No, that says these 17 attempts so far. 17 laws, the drop in agricultural production is constant. I doubt this law will bring about any change. Any furniture that comes to power must be suitable for certain pressure groups. It's probably happening now and you can see from some things in that law. One other thing I'd like to say is that you're on your way here about soil analysis. Why do soil analysis and make a commitment unless there's a chance to calcify. And what farmers can save on can't save on seeds, because they have to buy seed material, they can't on protective means because they have to fight weeds and pests. They can save on fertilisers and normally don't carry out calcifications. Any farmer would be happy to have money, to be able to calcify as a regular measure, especially one that has its own private land, and normal who processes the state because the measure certainly increases the contribution. You were talking here about priorities that would be, about evidence of what would happen in the contest. So far we have bad experience, so here I have an example from Lipovljan where PPK Orahovica is working somewhere about 7,000 hectares as much as I have about information came to take to Sisak-Moslavina County 70 hectares to family farms, although they already have a concession there and on that pond that is not yet in office. I believe that the agricultural economies that invested money in the machinery, in their backyards, in their production resources after 10 years if I can't continue, and they've been doing all the work on that land that this law is then very, very bad because many economies are going to fail. And they say that after all that, they will have to go to Ireland where most Slavons went.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68651	Thank you. The honourable representative Panenic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68652	My colleague, I'd like to make a correction to what he is first. I was in power, I didn't hit anyone. Here I will take my right and for my colleague, Romic, to say the same that he was the minister of agriculture who did not please him. And that's what I can stand. I wouldn't comment any further, but here's to not generalizing, I don't want to be in a position to become a general subject especially of such ideas. What we can say is that, we will all agree to support livestock farming which was an excuse and then to assign the country to different parts of Croatia is something that generally makes sense. We all want our cattlemen to have the opportunity to make the cheapest inputs through their production and to make added revenue through the production of meat, milk, but what, they make a quality income for their economies. What was then, which went violently, went cowboyish, went past the logic of assigning land and then created different conditions in certain municipalities. I was the chief myself back then. I raised a practical camp at the Agricultural Land Agency, and I didn't allow one part of the economic technology to be excluded, so that someone would be allowed to do that because someone had determined you'd get miles away from there, and nobody asked us on local self-government if you had a specific land that wasn't available, which wasn't part of a whole. There was that. I had 30 acres, it wasn't asked, but it was taken away from the big table one piece, it was split, it was assigned to someone. And what do we have in the end as a result? The cattlemen stayed undefined, the contracts weren't made, people didn't want to get out of the property. So we must still have a better policy and support for livestock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68653	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next club. And, excuse me, we have an answer on behalf of the motionor. Dear Minister Tomislav Tolusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68654	I'd rather not answer, but okay. It's your turn. First of all, you didn't listen to me when I gave the opening statement. This is now the fifth law we've passed, and the current law, but no offense, which has been passed by you SDP colleagues, which is now in force, weighs large today. Look at the law that is now in force. OPGs and all legal persons, all legal persons micro, small, medium, large and those who have a better economic programme. The law that you passed, Mr. Sagar, because you were in the SDP at the time and raised your hand for it. And now you're imputing me to either give me or the Ministry of Agriculture now this bill doesn't extend the O.P.G.'s. So please show me where you read it and look at the law that you passed and what it says in that law, and I'll read it in the final word. So it happened to us, what Mr. Djakic said, that the company wrote that it has a hundred tractors, and it has and is based on that state agricultural land, not the OPG. Article 36, so please read it again if you are not. So we gave priority to cattlemen, OPGs, micro and small businesses. Go to Slavonia, go to Djakovština. Too bad there is no Mr. Tomic, so he can explain to you the situation in Đakovština, whether there are more OPGs or micro and small businesses when we talk about livestock. The HPA advisory service that runs the unique register of domestic animals says how many people have cattle. We're tracking related companies. If anyone's missing, he'll get it, if he doesn't miss it, he won't get it. According to data that are off the record this year or next year, about a hundred thousand hectares of agricultural land will be leased without the right of cattle farmers because they will be satisfied or so far will be renters. So explain to me, maybe we don't have the same law in front of us. To those 100 ha that won't go to the cattlemen and will not go to the tenants so far. You know who gets them? They are obtained by the holder of a family holding or owner of a farm craft who did not have 41 years at the time of submission and has been resident in the municipality for at least 3 years from the area. When did the law say that? Not in one. And I'm really surprised that you've gotten amnesia in all the order that you're reporting and that you voted for those laws and Mr. Hajdukovic also, for the current law that gave the right and advantage to large systems and large players and we're giving priority to the OPGs here. There were a few questions, we have 105 000 OPGs, in the incentive system we have 313 small businesses, 40 that deal with livestock, I can list them all, so it's not a problem. Of those 40, I'm sure everyone has conditions when we talk about the number of throats. I mean, what are we talking about then? Sir, I don't know who asked you everything, you said the information system. Minister Romic, now your colleague, has filed a criminal report and thank him for it, not me, but Minister Romic during the MOST against the same system you are now a representative of the Most and now you say it is good and the DORH investigates it, we need an information system. Well, I totally agree with that, and we should do it, but unfortunately, this one now that's under the investigation of the D.O.R.H. and who aren't working, so I don't think I can think of that application, so I guess that must be clear to you. Mr. Sincic asked how we calculate the economic value of the economy. And that economic value of the economy, when the two are the same, from 8 to 100 000 euros, so these are your O.P.G.s, gentlemen. I'm pulling out a calculator, a calculator that we're counting on these things, which is done in the advisory service, and the basis of that is calculated, means very professional and systematic statistical data. There's a lot more, I'll say it all in the final word, but in any case, if one law so far extends the OPGs, so that's this one, and you voted for a law that weighs large systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68655	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. This is before we move on to the replicas that will be on your exhibit, respected MPs and MPs, it is an honor for us to welcome Mr...7The speaker is not understood./... Vice-President Knesset, Parliament in the State of Israel and Head of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of Israel-Croatia in Knesset Israel, who with the delegation is staying on official visit to the Republic of Israel as well as its Excellency Ambassador to Croatia. Now we'll go to the replicas of the minister, the first one will be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I want to stick to the subject so I won't talk about all the promises and announcements we've heard from your ministry, from you, from your Secretary of State on the Committee on Agriculture and which none has been fulfilled, let's say the new Hunting Act, etc. But I want to stick to the subject. The first big problem that my colleague mentioned is the composition, what I would like to hear and know is what we will and what steps will be taken by the ministry in the future because the rounding is a long, expensive and painful process but it is an inevitable process if we want an efficient and cost-effective agricultural production. Another thing that should certainly be considered, I would suggest that, for the sake of the quality of the law, you first of all withdraw it or that we continue to have it in third reading in order to ultimately produce as many quality laws as possible because you will hear you believe today and from my colleagues a lot of suggestions. It is necessary to approach the revision of all contracts that have been concluded so far for various reasons, so some economic circumstances have changed for the better, some for the bad, or some for the good of the master and some for the wrong. I think the domicile population should certainly be given a head start when reporting to the competition. What the law foresees is that existing owners who are in peaceful possession and fulfil their obligations have an advantage but I think that because of the depopulation of rural areas, Slavonia should give priority to the domicile population. And thirdly, you say that you encourage the OPGs, or small and micro entrepreneurs, but I remind you, the small company is 30 million assets, 60 million traffic, up to 50 employees. It's a small company, but most of the O.P.G. isn't like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68657	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68658	Thank you very much. Here's the minister. I'll read article 2 to the public. ... the land ownership referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article cannot be foreign legal or natural persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now that we're reading this, okay. Unless an international contract and a special regulation is specified otherwise. The same was determined by the international contract in Hungary because the fact that the Hungarian legal person and natural persons are now buying land from where the Croatian families moved from, we can't move to Hungary, so you as a legal and physical person can't buy land in Hungary, is that the EU? Who signed it anyway? This is a scam, an article. And now the man, the statesman, comes... says the holder of ownership rights on land cannot be foreign, legal and natural persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course I gave the amendment. To erase this because we need to be equal and in the EU. So why can't a Croatian legal person and a natural person in Hungary buy agricultural land and Hungarians can buy land in Croatia? Is this the same part of the Croatian-Hungarian contract signed between governments, I don't think I can believe that we will hand over the agricultural land until our citizens have no right to do so. Is that competition? Well, that's just high treason. On the market so that I can buy foreign, legal and physical persons with us, and we can't buy in the other one. They do not respect that contract, of course, because the Hungarians made a referendum, saw that they were sold out agricultural land in priceless foreigners. It is a strategic national interest, mainly in the domicile population. Because in the evicted Slavonia, of course, the Hungarians will buy everything, because they have money, prepared for it, or others. But we can't go there. What kind of justice is that? Where is this Croatian country in the EU? Is that subjection, which was signed when we joined the EU? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68659	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68660	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here, I'm glad you're here today, I'm sorry you weren't in the first reading. Because this is exactly the way to communicate and exchange different attitudes. Look, here's the deal. Let's leave our personal conversations now. The results of the audit for 2017 on the availability, the state audit on the availability of agricultural land. The information system has been developed, but certain improvements and improvements are needed. The system provides a number of data, which are not entirely accurate and reliable. The method of setting up data on the collection of income and claims is not well designed. It's been four years since it took place, and the procedure hasn't been completed. One of the recommendations set out in this audit, provide for preconditions to enable ministry inspectors to gain insight into the Agency's information systems, thus improving the system of planning and implementing supervision. That's what I'm talking about. No, he's going to the state's attorney's office, so let's talk about it. Your minister, as a member of the HDZ, was peeling potatoes, this one has not yet peeled potatoes, my minister, which you say I am voting for the law. It was based on an economic programme. I agree. You say it gives away big, but the key question is whether we're talking about guessing small or large, is this law going to improve agricultural production? Will it raise the level of agricultural production? That's the key question, that's what I've been doing with you, and that's why I'm talking about the information system, which would make it clear who has the land, how does he have that country? What's wrong? What's wrong is that we are importing in Slavonia today... There's something wrong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let Đuro Djakovic say, a combination could be made, which on the one hand cuts the grain, on the other hand turns out to be straw hats and bread, and we import all that bread. Come on, it's no problem we're importing agricultural machines, but it doesn't make sense to do that. And that's why this conversation is good, and I'm calling you again, so assure me this will raise agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68661	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68662	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd like to de-polomeze a little bit, actually a statement about 100,000 acres that's available. Let's go somewhere, about, something over 700, 38000 hectares, agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia. Of that, about 60% of them are estimated not to have been processed. But when you look at the structure on the ground, where is most of this unprocessed land? Is he in my county where there's about 34,000 acres, believe me, we'll definitely find him very little. In Brod Posavina, there is somewhere 38,000 I believe the same is available, almost everything in Požega. I'm looking at my constituency, that data, that's where there's 27000. How much is it that isn't available? And how many ready-made agricultural producers, i.e. those who wish to give up their rights, which they have achieved through the available programmes. Most of the land not allocated, it is located, here, by statistics is in Lika Senjska. For what? I'd just say, let's determine, how high is this property, P1, P2, which categories will be free for young people, who will be free for the OPGs? Let's make a deal about it? It means how much O.P.G. will get in my county, for example. Lands, which so far have not been available. Which will be the mechanism, which will assign it to them, because everyone, my community, the neighboring municipalities, all I know, all of you, are in the mood, no one thinks to give up, from what was rightful of the law. And that is why I argue, what we can look at at Croatia's level, but at Croatia's level we have areas that have relaxed, where agricultural production is very difficult, where the yields are very small, where, indeed, there is a big problem and state land and profit, doesn't mean too much to you. But let's go where the heart of production is, where it's most manufactured, see how much the OPGs get in that priority. I'm telling you, almost nothing, in a way, how complex the priority is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68663	Thank you. Before we move on to the next Club of Representatives, let me just let you know, we're not going to do point four today, we're going to skip it and we're going to work it later, so today we're going to be working on other than this point that has a lot of registered clubs and individual debates, point 2, point 3 and point 5 that are scheduled for today, and point 4, we're going to skip. Here, the next Club of Representatives is that of the IDS, the PGS and the List of Rivers, in the name of which they will speak, the esteemed representative of Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68664	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Every law, including the new Agricultural Land Act, should primarily have clear objectives, should be enforceable. Therefore, the IDS, PGS and LRI, the new law, assesses through 5 elements. First, that agricultural land, well of interest to the Republic of Croatia, secondly that too much land is abandoned and unprocessed, thirdly, to stop with poor practice of land allocation to those who only reap incentives, the fourth priority is to those who use land for real production. And the fifth, that this law, unlike the previous one, may be enforceable. We at the IDS, PGS and LRI Club believe that this proposal of the law on the one hand has good foundations, while on the other hand, supporting provisions actuate all the positive shifts that the law itself contains, which in fact creates restraint in our club to meet the objectives, the effectiveness of implementation, to the consistency of all the institutions involved. As far as benefits are concerned, the new law brings positive shifts to the law that is in force in several of the most important elements. By making available to the agricultural land from the state to the local level, which we have indicated for years, by the composition of the commission, for the implementation of the tender, which is fully made up of representatives of the local self-government unit, which will in any case speed up the process. By favouring young people up to 41 years of age as holders, domicile OPGs, small and micro-enterprises, then, the possibility of leaving in the position of abandoned land to unknown or inaccessible owners, which will solve a number of problems for farmers on the ground. And by setting deadlines for all stakeholders in the land allocation process, by asking the proposer here, that the provisions should be complemented and clearly stated if an institution is not shown within the time limit, that it is deemed to be in agreement with the procedure and procedure. It is positive that the ministry adopted our club's proposal that internal Istra, i.e. municipalities and cities that do not have access to the sea do not belong to coastal Croatia and based on such a provision there is a foothold, that internal Istria has the same conditions as the rest of continental Croatia and in defining other elements of agricultural policy and these are the most positive elements of this new law. The most controversial provision we read in this new law applies to the article. 36th, which determines the right of the lease championship from which it arises, that the existing tenant, who has fulfilled the economic programme, properly fulfils his contractual obligations, processes the land, after the end of the contract, that potential land may be lost. It is possible to read from the law the very wish of the promoter, to give priority over all others to cattlemen, and thus to create assumptions for the accelerated development of livestock farming, but as prescribed. In 36, this will certainly not be achieved, but only certain agricultural areas will become subject to litigation and will not be in the function of agricultural production. Our club is a clear attitude that cattlemen need help, but not at the expense of regular tenants. And what I would like to add to this debate in this debate is that we should also respect the conditions that municipalities and cities have installed in their spatial plans, but also in development strategies. Therefore, we propose that the provisions of Art. The 36th right of the championship to current regulated tenants, and free and unprocessed agricultural land, afterwards, cattlemen, milk producers, farmers, which are engaged in organic production. And we hold that such order would be just and encourage sustainable development. I will repeat once again, I believe that the law must be clear and unequivocal, so I expect from the promoters the interpretation of this article and its completion. Another problem we see in the short term of paying the rent, which is a certain art. 40th Law. This article provides that the lease is paid, practically in advance, for the whole year, within 15 days, from the day of introduction into the property, while for each year next year, it is paid by the end of December of the current year. I think for a farmer, who suddenly needs to raise money for a whole year, the 15-day deadline is too short. We therefore propose to extend that deadline to a minimum of 60 or 90 days. Furthermore, as regards the price for the sale of agricultural land, I must point out that there are certain, indeterminateities, for which I request an explanation and answers. It's just that it's in the first reading, Art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply: We are then on behalf of the club, specifically, my colleagues, Tulio Demetlika, stressed that this would put Istrian farmers in an unfavourable position compared to farmers in other areas of Croatia, because on the one hand, the market price in Istria is up to 10 times higher than on some other parts of the country, and on the other hand, the entry costs for farmers in Istria are much higher, which directly affects the competitiveness of the final product. The provision of Article 59 has now been modified in a way that the initial value of agricultural land is determined on the basis of the data from the E-real real estate module of the spatial planning system, on the average value of agricultural land. However, in the light of this final proposal of the law, it is again concrete. In 59, it remains that the sale will take place at a market price, which I repeat to a farmer in Istria, is put back in an unfavourable position. It is important to know that the quality of land in Istria is much smaller and much more necessary to invest in order to put land into operation, which means that their entry costs are much higher, compared to farmers in some other areas of Croatia. Since the state owns agricultural land, from our point of view, it is unacceptable for the state to place its citizens, in this particular case, farmers in Istria in a subordinate position. We propose that the price be economically acceptable and ensure that everyone is in an equal position. And so I expect the proposaler to make it clear that the calculation of the price of state agricultural land will appear throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and whether the farmers from Istria will be abolished again. The law regains the programme of agricultural land owned by the state. As indicated for its adoption and implementation it is necessary to have a fully resolved catastrian and property-legal status of land. Since the state bodies did not solve it, and now they should have all the burden of falling on the back of units of local self-government that will have to do not just a big job, but solve a number of difficult problems. We therefore propose to enable units of local self-government, which have developed a programme of agricultural land-based availability based on previous regulations, to re-apply it with the necessary complement, as this would speed up the overall procedures and allocations and the function of agricultural land. And I would also like to suggest that since the agency will be the one to establish, develop, maintain and maintain the information system in the agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, we propose in particular that units of local self-government have access to this programme and that I will give a concrete and reason not to happen, especially in the coastal part of Croatia, that some parcels, owned by the municipality, whether cities enter the forest-economic base overnight, that units of local self-government have no knowledge of it. And that's why we suggest that units of local self-government have access to this program, if this isn't enabled then there will be litigation, and I believe that this shouldn't be our goal. Here at the very end, I will repeat that our club expresses abstention because only after the adoption of this law will a series of regulations be defined, a series of criteria that the law itself could begin to apply, meaning in nature that the application of the law is delayed until the minister, along with his associates, adopts the necessary rules for the implementation of the law, and then raises new additional questions about how the implementation itself will work and how all the involved institutions will be brought into line. So we can say in principle that this proposal for a new law has created the possibility of a faster allocation and availability of land, and that, unfortunately, in the implementation of the shares, it will face a series of indetermination.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68665	Thank you very much. We don't have a replica. It's Mr. Milorad Pupovac in front of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68666	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. This bill is extremely important for a number of reasons, the minister himself said in his explanation, and I will repeat those which the SDSS Representatives Club considers particularly important. It is really necessary that unprocessed land, whether owned by the Republic of Croatia, be owned by natural persons in accordance with adequate legal solutions can be put into use as well. That's first and that's the SDSS's Club of Representatives backs it up. The second thing that seems particularly important to me is to avoid so far the practices of which the minister has spoken exhaustively and convincingly here, and this is not to destroy the small agricultural producer, not to destroy the agricultural household, not to destroy rural settlements as it has seemed in previous practices, and to introduce order in how and how relations between the state's efforts to support agricultural production, to revive it, that it is from a state of very low processing and very low agricultural productivity that will be much better than it is, and finally to create a legal framework that will allow the available funds from European funds to be used in a proper and valid manner in order to improve agricultural production. And yet to protect on the one hand what agricultural land is, and on the other hand, to protect all agricultural producers that make their agricultural land from those who do not process it and whose indifference is largely in various ways may endanger human health and may endanger the ecological system, it may endanger agricultural producers who seek to restore agricultural production. And in this respect, we agree with the proposal, we agree with the ministry, we agree with this proposal because these are common objectives. What is the main interest of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS is the protection of owners, especially when they are physically owned. We note that, in these objectives, in these justified objectives, we would not have been able to reach a situation where ownership is compromised or that property burdens are created or that the owner creates additional financial costs which they, for different reasons, or would not be able to bear or should not bear. For these reasons, we will be free and in this debate, as well as in our amendments to this debate on this bill, we will draw attention to the following: 1 as regards Article 14(1), we believe that it would certainly be more appropriate, safer for both the interests and the rights of the owner at this stage of the use of agricultural land more rationally and in this state of the land market more rationally that instead of market criteria which I know actually do not exist in some areas because the land outside the market zone such as the good part of our land outside the market zone, it would actually be quite good, and we are proposing an amendment to this Article 14(1), and we are asking that instead of establishing a market value it goes to establishing what appears to be state land, which is a double initial lease and for natural owners as well as for state property. In this way, we will certainly avoid the risks of assessing the leases in case of physical ownership in certain areas not being such that they can be far, far from what is potentially the real value of the lease. Secondly, regardless of the existing stimulation and Article 14(3) protects ownership, but since unfortunately not always the best practice, to practice that goes towards the gray zone of illegality, according to the uptake of ownership, according to the abuse of what the law opens, we find it extremely important to say that the conclusion of a lease agreement does not change the ownership relationship of the previous owner and that the previous owner does not lose the right of ownership in any segment when it comes to the lease agreement. This may sound like a small surplus, but we think it's very important that this law doesn't have any kind of bad, public sodium that now the Republic of Croatia is making a legal solution by which it will take away a country. Because people very rarely and very often, in fact very often, find it difficult to understand the difference between renting and taking ownership. And for this reason, it is very important for us at the Club of Representatives of the SDSS that all owners including the owners of Serbian nationality, especially those who are in the refugee system but also those who have returned to have a clear message that the law will by no means question their right of ownership. In addition, as regards Article 14(8), we believe that it is necessary to define the lease contract more precisely, more fully. The more general deformation of the lease contract is not good and therefore we think that the lease agreement should contain content, reasons for the termination and revaluation of the lease, that it is a minimum of what should stand and as defined in Articles 38, 39, 42, 43, 47 and 50 of this bill. The same applies to the burden that the owner can bear when it comes to the lease procedure. According to the current proposal, the law provides for a whole set of costs including the cost of geometers and geodetic costs, measurements and similar costs. Many people, especially those who have small parcels, especially those in the impoverished environments, do not have that money. And we think that it's more than justifiable to have a relationship with the owners and because of the success of the law itself that it includes everyone who can and because of their relationship with the owners because they don't have a burden, that the situation doesn't occur that the cost of assessing the value of the property, the determination of the elements for the lease contract will actually be such that they can eat the price of the total property. We would actually be in a situation where the state creates some kind of legislative framework where, without actually wanting people, it deprives them of their property. They won't take the state, but they'll take someone else. And for that reason, we suggest that the owner be disbursed in relation to part of the costs necessary to rent the property. So these most expensive expenses no longer go to the owner's burden. And this is proposed by the amendment to Article 15, paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 of this Act, and a new item is added which would say that 50% of the costs are borne by the owner, and 50% of the costs are borne by the units of local self-government. One more question, and that's the question of the owner's relationship with the tenant. The law stipulates that property is leased for a period of 10 years. And it's okay. But what if the owner says I want that property back? I want my property back, I want to process it, I'm back from exile, I'm back from some third country and I want to finally start working my country. The right of ownership is unimpaired under our Constitution and is stronger than any other form of right, including the right to lease. So that we don't have that kind of conflict, and on the other hand, so that we don't block that large part of the land and it remains uninvolved and we actually discourage the tenants to even enter the whole story, we suggest that this period of 10 years be reduced to 5 years and that after these 5 years the owner can come and tell the tenant that he wants to use his land and his real estate, and of course not at any time, not at any time of the year, but after reaching the crops that can be found on that land. We think it's fair to the tenants, who can spend significant money in bringing in the purpose and using agricultural land, and on the other hand, that they have a certain period of economic cost to enter the lease, and on the other hand it's fair to the owners themselves, not to slow down their rights. Finally, we think we should do something about the article. 30, paragraph 6, for the next reason. If the Republic of Croatia retains the right to have its holder equal in both the garter and the cataster both in land books and in the owner, then we should not exclude it from that kind of equality or physical person. Especially where there is, where there's doubt about it, whose land is actually. If the Republic of Croatia, based on the change in the social ownership of the Republic of Croatia and the ownership of the general national property, owned by the Republic of Croatia, has signed itself as the owner of one side, and on the other hand in a cataster or in the possessions, the people who are the real owners, who, based on the purchase of the contract, the replacement contract or in any other way, have actually become real owners, de facto owners of the land that it uses for generations, but for decisive reasons, have not turned outside the book ownership, we believe that the law should create assumptions that the type of land in which that type of dispute exists and that it should be done all, that this different treatment that exists in the case of a state, where the state may be outside the book owner, and natural persons, i.e.e., private persons, i.e.e., private owners, private owners, that it is not necessary to remove it. Because it's going to happen that we're going to have different treatment on one side, two kinds of ownership, and on the other hand we're going to have serious possible disputes about it. And finally, I think since we missed the last four, five, six years to sort out the land books and the catastrophe. I think it would be good if the units of local self-government and the costs necessary to settle the adoption of a technical plan for the management of agricultural land included the cost of taking care of land books. It's the interest of local self-government units, it's the interest of the state, it's the interest of the owner. And to provide the necessary resources from different sources either from the source of the lease, either from the sources of European funds or from some other means in order to finally... And so that the books of the earth may be in full and proper condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]] Mr. Vice President, thank you... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68667	Thank you, too... Now it's time, Mrs. Anka Dark Taritash, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68668	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Agricultural Land Act, another reading. A little bit when you get into the materials and you see a little bit of everything together, then some kind of three main arguments, which are mentioned is the unsettled situation in space, administrative bans and abandoned agricultural land. You don't have to understand yourself too much in this problem, it's enough when you're driving to Croatia and going to certain parts, that you don't need to believe the sad words, it's enough to believe your own eyes, and to see that our situation from the agricultural land is depravity. And whenever any law comes into the parliamentary procedure, or when it is discussed either in the media or in any way, it is necessary to look, which is the last goal and to pursue that last goal. The last objective of this law should be to really activate agricultural land because it is the resource we have and to try to have tools to do so, that is, how to achieve it. I'm someone who deals with his entire working life, yet another land, building land and then it's about the legalization project we've come to tickets. Record of the Republic of Croatia on February 15th, '68. These tickets were of course partly in Croatia, in part in our state geodetic administration. But when the military left the former JNA, however, it took some of the cards with it, and we managed to get from Belgrade a lot of skill and diplomacy to those cards. These cards were primarily interesting to me personally, for reasons to see what was building, which was legal, which was February 15th, '68. However, these maps have shown one other fact, where you remain amazed at how arable the land was and when you compare the land and what it was in 68, and what it was like when you compare it to the cards in 2011 is the comparison of '68. So in 2011, when it was overrun and it was seen that a very large way of going both legal and lawless construction went to this defiled agricultural land, existing roads were used and became new roads, and where, due to the indifference of nature, it made its own. Nature made its way in a way that where it wasn't processed, the foresters were created and then when you look at the catastre a little bit then suddenly something that was then agricultural in the catastrus becomes some other land and that's kind of the way we've made it. What should be of interest regardless of whether you are sitting on which side of this assembly you are sitting, really getting the law and getting the tools in hand and the ministry and units of local self-government that the resources that we have to really start using, so agricultural land, to start using in a way that improves and enables agricultural production, to enable on the one hand and soil protection, on the other hand and use. And then you read a little bit of this law and you see what the essence is and whether you're dealing with one topic, another topic or another topic, you come up with the essence, and the bottom line is that problem that we have, and that's an unsettled cadastre and unsettled land books, that's what one effort should be, and it should be one project. It should not be called reform, but one project that should be addressed because when you see this law from Article 31 to Article 83, it also deals with different types of land and what are different types of new forms of availability. So here we have a lease, so we have a temporary use, so we have a direct contract, so we have a land swap, so then we have a sale that can of course be direct, so then we have building rights issues, so we have a service theme, so we have deposing topics. And on this one law you see that what's basically what he should be dealing with, how the agricultural land better function, what to do in terms of the quality of agricultural production that he basically deals with all these legal norms how to legally regulate it. When it comes to how to regulate it legally, there are a few things I'd like to point out. One thing I'd like to point out, and we're in laws, and we start to define not only in this law, but also in the laws, we've admitted that we have agricultural land that we don't know who the owners are, that this agricultural land can be leased, and that what's going to be held out of the lease is, in a certain way, kept until the owner shows up. So we're finally through the laws not writing them for some imaginary country and some imaginary situation, but in laws we said really the situation we have. We have an unsettled cadastre, an unsettled garter, a situation we have that the owners are unknown that we don't know where it is, that it's a matter of being able to put it into function and let's put it into function by the time it's settled. And in that sense, it is absolutely a support that we have first acknowledged and secondly that we have put in a way or that we have suggested that it is possible to resolve it. What is the characteristic of our laws, which is that the left does not know what the right hand does and that even in the parliamentary procedure about the same or approximately the same time we get laws and then in one law stands one, and in the other law there is another. So then I'm just warning you in the first reading we had the Law on State Property Management and there it's said that state property will be managed by a certain ministry except for the forest and agricultural related. And now we have article 16 or Article 17 here, which speaks of one specificity, is the specificity of when we have agricultural land within the construction area and it is said within the area of the agricultural land we will rent to bring in the purpose according to the spatial plan. To simplify, you can have one building area in the construction area you can have, say, five thousand squares and these five thousand squares are leased until someone in those five thousand squares decides to realize the hotel. Now it is said here that in these cases the consent of the Ministry of Property will also be sought. So it would be good if this was in the second reading, that law was in the first reading, so just agree not to be confused because in that law it says when this agricultural land is just inside the building area, so you agree not to confuse the people who are going to get into it because you will send them to the Ministry of Property Management, and the Ministry of Property Management will say we don't run the team, the team manages this ministry. Take care of it. It seems to me that a better solution is that no matter what is in the construction area, and in nature is agriculture while it is in the nature of agriculture and is used for agriculture to manage you, just solve it. So it absolutely doesn't matter, it has to be a model that is. I know that here it was wanted, since the ultimate purpose of this space would be something else, not agriculture, that it would be done, don't be confused. We're confusing enough already, and we don't need it that way ourselves. And there is an article 23 that speaks of fees for change of purpose. Now there's a story that should only be considered and defined. Here you are related to changes in the purpose of the listed golf courses and mentioned camps. Now, of course, there are some projects that are very announced and very much talked about and then five or ten or fifteen years have passed, and unfortunately there is nothing. I'm sure it's in a lot of cases when we put our foot in the door and then we find the reasons why not, but why. What exactly am I trying to say? When it came to golf courses and the possibility of realising the golf course there was a series of laws that made it impossible. And one of the laws that they were from the aspect of agriculture and forests where they were actually looking for a change of purpose from agricultural land to land building even though for a golf course where it's not being built in principle is the question of how much it's built. I don't think it's a forest either. So what exactly am I saying? One golf course among other things in its scope and has agricultural land that remains like agricultural land because it increases the value of that golf course, because they except where the golf bat shoots and where the holes are there are some other situations. I think it would be good to define it in a way where it really is about changing purpose for the need of a golf course. But where there's going to be still some kind of farm there's no need to go for a change of purpose. And one topic that I like about the subject and there's not a single law that we're discussing, and then I don't define that is the topic of decentralisation. We have 556 units of local self-government and they're, they're different. They're different by their size, they're different by their capacity, they're different by their fiscal capabilities, and we're always kind of ready to go along a line of less resistance, so we say, so I can't say that we always look at those who can't, but look at those who can. I am absolutely convinced that all forms of decentralisation should be encouraged, that you should look to those who can. Because what we have after a certain number of years, so we know since the Croatian state, since when we have laws, since when we do something, we've been based and developed from above, and we're not developing from above. What am I saying? There's always some ministry, some state that's up there and dictates the rules of the game without knowing exactly what's going on on on the ground, and that's the flaw we have. It is incomparable when it develops from the bottom up, because you who are the mayors, or mayors, you are de facto familiar with all your fellow citizens, you know what you are talking about, and you know what your options are. So absolutely in that sense, I think it's a good thing that it came back in terms of having units of local self-government be these. I think it's a good thing they decided on that model. But what's the role of the ministry is to control, that there's something that's not done right away. So this reaction is immediately a reaction that is extremely good. And really to encourage through the laws that we are passing, which we are discussing decentralisation. Our mouth will be full of decentralisation. We will use this speaker very often for this, and what we have in nature, we have Croatia which is an extremely centralized country. Let's try, let's get this law back in a way that goes from the local self-government unit. They have their own programs, they know what they're talking about. They even know and no one can convince me, every commissioner knows when someone took the lease whether they're ready, not ready, whether they really put that agricultural land into operation or not. So if he does it in a way that he knows in advance that it won't be anything, it's his responsibility. Often, the state takes on itself some responsibilities that are not to be taken and which are not in the jurisdiction of the State. There's also a part that's related to the possibility and that's good, so when it comes to buildings that are legalized in a way that no more compensation for changing the purpose of land because there's really no change in the purpose of land. The part related to spatial-planned documentation and consent given in the design phase, i.e. the adoption of a spatial plan already exists is a particular tradition, one particular methodology that takes place, and this law will continue to do so. And here's something in the last minute that's extremely important, which is actually a combination, a rounding and that's something to encourage and something to work on because it's the only way we can have a situation in Croatia when we travel not to wonder at that amount of unprocessed agricultural land, but to try to at least partially go back to where we were in '68. A year. And if you're going to have time you have a series of portals on the State Administration, but the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning is where you can see actually scanned those tickets from '68. years and I'm sure a lot of you won't recognize the neighborhood they live in, because at the time it was one end that was working unlike today that was abandoned. And the interest of this law and the law dealing with agriculture, the ultimate goal of processing our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68669	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first is Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68670	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues Mrak-Taritash, we expect to make a joke from when the world and the ages are, that is, when we bring in spatial documents this time we expect to bring in the State Plan of Spatial Development from when the spatial plans of cities, that is, urban and municipal arrangements and spatial plans of the county, this ministry gives its opinion primarily because of what it manages, care for the state agricultural land and in case of re-use, what it has to say about it. You know that there was no Ministry of State Property to this government and as you yourself said now the Law on State Property Management is a building land owned by the Republic of Croatia, managed by the Ministry of State Property. And when you pull a parallel like this ministry takes care of, cares and manages agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, so does the Ministry of State Property want and should be informed, it should be informed when the county, city, municipalities and states and if as strange as that sounds now, but when it comes to making space-planned documents as every citizen in the unit space of local and regional self-government wants to be involved in the adoption of a space-planned document, so is the case here. So they're not in college here. What this ministry is looking for, it wants to know when a spatial plan is adopted, and so does this new ministry with this new document, the law to be known when it comes to the adoption or modification of existing spatial-planned documents. And the second thing I'm going to say is, it's clear that the moment the area of agricultural land is determined for golf or camp by the Ministry of State Property and at that point, And they also have a need to get to know each other. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68671	Thank you. Anka Dark-Taritash, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68672	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić and I know well that you and I are dealing in a certain way with the space of your working life. And I absolutely saw a series of things if you don't want something that you can't do. And unlike this law and the Ministry of Agriculture who actively participate in the adoption of spatial plans, who know exactly where the maker gives lists of all the particles that are found, which will eventually be re-purposed, to know exactly which cultures are on these land. The new Ministry of Property is in a law that will be in the second reading that they actually have no interest in spatial planning at all and that the only thing you need to give in terms of the spatial plan is to inform them that you are going to work on a spatial plan. Unlike before the solution where it was to give an opinion in the phase of spatial planning now the law tells you to let us know. So the Department of Property said we didn't care. This ministry knows exactly what this is about, and ultimately what the result is? The result is that someone who's going to be renting, that you're going to tell him with a series of papers that need to be delivered, and now you have to go to the Ministry of Assets, that the Ministry agrees with you. It's just whether we want to be quick or we want to be slow. If we want to be quick, then we won't make him go there. If we want to be slow, that's where we're gonna get him. I was in another assembly yesterday was one decision to draw up an urban planning arrangement of 45000 square meters of coverage. And there was a list of 42 bodies to be notified that you would be doing this urban planning. It started with the Department of Construction, the spatial arrangement and everything else. Only from the 42 list did it take 5 or 6. It's just a question we want to be quick and expedient or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68673	Thank you. Mr. Prelec, second replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68674	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Taritash, at the end of your presentation, you mentioned the commission. I'd say it's one of the biggest problems in Croatia. In fact, we have one difference in Croatia, we have Slavonia, which has large agricultural areas, a lot of state countries. And when the competition is called there, it's clear that it's a lot of pressure for farmers to get the very land, the country's great. However, in this northwestern and western, and I would say to the complete rest of Croatia we have a problem with small parcels. Small plots that are privately owned and which I would say for several reasons are not suitable for serious agricultural production. It's something that this government, this ministry should take into account and solve the problem. This problem cannot be solved by some light law, but simply by some reforms, by some serious things that will solve the problem of deforested agricultural land. In Slovenia, there is a law where when a father leaves his children in inheritance, he can leave the country only to one son. Here's something I heard from the mayor on the Slovenian side. Unfortunately, we don't have that. That might be the beginning. But how do we decide to round these small agricultural parcels so that farmers can seriously access agricultural production? That's one question, and I believe you're a profession. You may give your advice, but here's the thing, and the minister should deal with that kind of thing because it's one of the crucial problems of our agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68675	Thank you, too. Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68676	Thank you very much. There is now a problem in Slovenia, which when there are no sons has daughters or when there is no one. Then what is it? But good. But we won't be dealing with Slovenia. So, really, it's a problem. There's one, imagine it's the longest-ever show that's the one about agriculture that's on HRT going on Sundays and that's very interesting. I know it sometimes when I get a chance to look at it. I think this weekend or the last one was a subject of co-operation. And the topic of a municipality in the area of Varazdin County who have already prepared everything and are wondering why this is not going on. Compassion is a serious problem. So in Slavonia, you have the big ones to say so, the land or the boards as they call them, and there's no one to process them. And on the other hand, it's this delicacy that's made a lot of kids, so now I don't speak tradition, so different configuration in other parts, and it's really something that's one of the serious issues of the composition. This law gives elements and says what it is. The land that should be provided by the team is one 60 articles, which all these arranged ways of renting this or that. Compassion is really something to deal with. He's giving that possibility some kind of country replacement. It used to be the most normal thing. So, when you look at me, it's always nice to look at Slavonia Vukovar-Srijem County and there what's been going on since Austria-Hungarian land, how the land changes, how the land changes have been, how big floods have occurred. Then they were, they were combined once upon a time that they were made. But now we're back in a situation where someone who's seriously involved in agriculture really can and only has nothing to do with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68677	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the HDZ club, Mr. Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68678	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Good afternoon, everyone. We have before us the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. So from the draft Republic of Croatia, agricultural land from social property has gone to state property and has been available in various ways in accordance with the laws on agricultural land. At first, the law had no provisions on availability, later forms such as concessions, leases, service, sales, donations or replacements were mainly based on a programme for the availability of agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia. The local self-government, ministry and the Agricultural Land Agency carried out the very way of making available. In 2015, available programmes are abolished and other means of availability to agricultural land are prescribed. As very few public invitations for the award of agricultural land were issued through 2016 and 2017, there was great dissatisfaction with this law on the ground, as well as ineffectiveness of the agency due to capacity constraints, the creation of this law has passed. So this bill, given that it is a very sensitive area, should have as broad a consensus as possible between all stakeholders, especially farmers and cattlemen, so that all of them are in a more equal position at the competition. And this is a good bill, it's much better than the previous one, I'll say later on what I mean, since it's the law of all agricultural laws. It is good that many suggestions and suggestions as well as public debates have been accepted between the two readings. We therefore welcome the proposal to return to the units of local self-government after disposal because we believe that the units of local self-government will better carry out the revision and control of the programme of implementation of those programmes for agricultural land, but even better, full control of the collection of rents, which is an exceptional problem in this current law. It is unacceptable that we today do not know how much land to rent, and on the other hand, millions of incentives are collected for the same land, land is devasted without control and impoverished against the economic programme. I am undermining the strict control of the economic programme again, the ministers have promised it, and we will insist on that. I claim responsibly that over 80% does not implement the programme on the basis of which they have received the countries. And yes, to answer some of the predecessors for breaking up the contracts of all those who manipulated the availability program and therefore got the country. In fact, the existing law contains a provision for the register of the payment of water to the agencies, and until the acquisition by the agency of the records of JLS's waters. I want to make it clear that in five years the current law enforcement agency has never taken over that record. So, I'm gonna need you to do an urgent audit on the renting programmes. Infringers who do not pay for the land seized, to collect tasks with interest and dragon penalties, with the return of non-consummated incentives. I hope that the order will now be made especially because units of local self-government will be extremely interested in it because it is about their resources. This law gives the agency the opportunity to rent private abandoned land for ten years, which we also welcome has been changed from five to ten. If the owners are not available due to an unknown residence and the land is not maintained and is suitable for agricultural production. We also welcome the separation from the forest-economic base of abandoned agricultural land which can be brought into agricultural production and the possibility of renting such land in accordance with the available programme. It's very important to say that this land has plenty and there was an opportunity for young and cattlemen, and I'll say something about it later. We have suggested that a part of such land of agricultural land that has grown into plants and whose depletion would cost more than that, be put into operation if there are interested breeders for hire for the purpose of free keeping pigs or cattle, cows, cows, without obligation to disembark and bring it up to the function of a warlord. Too bad it's not accepted, maybe on another occasion it'll be accepted. Agricultural land owned by the state is available on the basis of the availability programme brought by units of local self-government, which is good. Local self-government units are also conducting public tenders, which is also good. It is also good that if one or another moment and available and a public tender cannot be carried out by the local self-government unit within the prescribed time limit, it can be done by the county. The lease of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia conducts units of local self-government at... of 25 years with the possibility of extending for the same period which is also good. And there was an observation that it was too small a period, but if it is a quality tenant then there is no reason not to extend it for that 25 years, which is one lifetime. It was accepted that it should be possible for the efficiency and speed of land allocation owned by the Republic of Croatia to include the county, but it was also accepted to give the county state's attorneys a 15-day deadline to give consent because they had opportunities to see that it took the DORH, some a year to give consent and there were often problems there. In addition to Article 36, almost all articles have been well balanced and harmonised, which have been discussed so far, in which there is certainly a need for me to speak a few words. When establishing criteria for the allocation of agricultural land and state ownership, priority shall be given to owners and owners of livestock who do not meet the conditions of the average ratio of the number of throats, cattle and agricultural areas to previous owners, then to young people, who are domestically active. Now I'm going to say something about what cattlemen are, what they are now, which is domicile and what they are young. Earth is an important resource that we have and that we must protect. With livestock, it's different. We've had him and destroyed him because of the various policies of every ministry so far. Either we preserve it or we destroy it to the end. It's a multiplier times five. From it lives the farmer, the slaughterhouse and the meat industry and the dairy industry and transport and trade, and will work 24 hours, 365 days. So far, the advantage has been great, ladies and gentlemen, I say very clearly to you in the HSS and to you in the SDP because you were talking about you being against being given small. So, so far, they've had great mastodons, if you've had 1,000 employees, that's enough criterion for you to be first in line, don't let God mention that you have 100 tractors like the minister said, so that's the only way they got land. Now in this bill they came to order micro and small, which is so everywhere in the world, they're potent, they pay incentives, they pay taxes and they're tough and they're held up. So if the kid were in line if they couldn't win all these years when they were only getting big? And I'll say two, three words about those little ones. So, there's one face made that's big. Small agricultural companies are those companies that have, for example, 500 heroes, that is 5 million kuna gross income, which have, for example, one farm that is worth 2.5 million kuna, that is the value of their activity and which can then have two or three or four or five employees in third criteria and at least ten are the criteria, but two of those three criteria are taken. Do the little ones bother you? To whom they may be a problem if the law is very clearly written micro and small and behind that we have if they are in the same rank then they get companies that have eight to 100,000 euros... means targeted for micro and OPGs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we talked about yes, we suggested that cattlemen except in the local community would be good if they could have priority in the neighbouring community. Why am I saying that? We think that domicillality is a little bit wider than one municipality, that it's a homeland. If in one municipality there are two, three quality cattlemen with too little land, and in the other we have enough land and we do not have any cattlemen, in Zagorje, in Zagreb County, in Međimurje, in the Varazdin area, we have many such municipalities in Koprivnica-križevci. Why wouldn't such a cattleman be in line behind all those cattlemen who were calmed down in the domicile in that community if he couldn't be in his own? These municipalities are also related to school, children go to the same school, it's only the limit of the administrative municipality in '93. We have the same parishes there are even cadastrian municipalities the same. Especially since 66 municipalities in the Republic of Croatia have less than 10 hectares of land and 17 of them do not have a single square of state country. There's probably a chance, so I'll be able to talk about it sometime. Especially since the lack of land destroyed cattle, which the cattlemen did not get the opportunity to dispose of manure against the nitrate directive through biogas plants, and speculative quotas were obtained by some others, some companies that do not exist at all. This law opens up the possibility of selling agricultural land which is extremely good and that we welcomed and I do not understand that someone might be against making it possible to sell the land now while the moratorium is for sale to foreigners. And it's a good thing it was put on 50 acres of one buyer, so it didn't go to megalomanic purchases and 25% can be determined by the municipality. It would be good if there were particles that were a little larger than 10 acres that could be solved by some sublegal act, that such a particle didn't have to be dismembered. And there's one thing we suggested, I would like to say very clearly, which is the country's donation to young families on condition that they are processed, where they could set up an OPG for agricultural production, they could get those initial incentives of 15 thousand euros in that country, they would be monitored through ARCOD and after 10 years if they enjoyed the country, that country could be given property rights. It's our country and it's our children in the way we've assigned it to the defenders I think it's one of the models that we might one day do. The funds available to agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia are 25% of the state budget, 10% of the JLS budget, 65% of the local self-government budget. The funds are intended, too, funds from... It goes 70% to the state budget and 30% to local self-government units and are also strictly dedicated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since this is highly sensitive matter and state land an extremely important resource, for which it is interested for the reasons of the widest public, this law is the whole legal step for the better. It will in part ease the country's final shortage to cattle farmers. If there's a need later, it can be intervened later. It should definitely not be the subject of revote of the left and right side of the assembly and HDZ will accept it as such, and if there are problems in its implementation, I am sure that the government will correct them in its amendments and additions or sublaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68679	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first Mr. Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68680	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Križanić, you mentioned the HSS and, above all, the HSS stands for a small family holding. It was also visible in 2001. The Agricultural Land Act, where the HSS has been advocated to prove that, who has the advantage, is a basic agricultural activity and that it generates income, most of the income from agriculture. So that was 2001. Furthermore, you mentioned in your presentation, the control of the economic programme. Of course there has to be control, because there's a lot going on in the field, that here, when we rent land, we know it's illegal, to sublet the land. But unfortunately, on the ground, it happens that the country is being subletted, that those who have received the lease do not realize their economic programme. We know that this should have been supervised by a agricultural inspection, but I don't think they're active enough in that control. And I think it should be more control, because in the field it happens, I say, this situation. Clearly, the local self-government unit receives income from leases, the tenant pays regular income, but at the same time achieves incentives and does not work in the country because he has sublet it. Clearly, the sublet is illegal and I believe there should be greater control in that section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68681	Thank you, too. Mr. Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68682	Thank you, Mr. Mader, for this question. When I spoke about being HSS, HSS supported the former minister. The HSS has raised its hand to the law, which is now current. I was talking about that law and that law was favored,... Then I'm publicly sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But if we're talking about this law, that law favored "great," that megalomaniac. You were talking about controlling the economic program. I'm very clear here and resolutional. I don't have that dilemma. Anyone who has abused the economic programme to get a country, who does not now rule the country, according to the economic programme, for himself to be taken away from it. There's no dilemma. Our minister has promised full implementation of this new law. I trust him. There's no reason not to trust him. And the other thing, which is important to say, is that, I believe, I was the chief myself, in the municipality, two mandates and you're the chief, that units of local self-government will take great care of whether someone pays the rent or not, because that's his income. And he sees it very clearly, whether in 2017 all his tenants paid the rent or not. If they are not, then he will implement the exercise, or the minister said it is the executive law, or that he will be able to conduct a direct confiscation of the country at the expense of the lease. Very clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68683	Second replica, Mr. Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68684	Dear colleague Križanić, you spoke in your debate and about the positive elements of this law, which I personally, too, touched on behalf of the club. But it is evident that the proposing himself, the particular ministry, has made a great effort in this, through this new bill. But it is also a fact that there are certain supporting provisions, which actually lead to questionability, in which way this law itself will be enforceable. And for all of us, it should be for the purpose of putting too much abandoned and unprocessed land into operation as soon as possible. So in this replica, he would like to touch himself once again and say, that indeed, in the law itself, the provisions should set deadlines for all institutions, which should give their opinions. And unless they're reported within certain deadlines, they're believed to be in agreement with the procedure itself. You have touched on in your debate on a programme available to agricultural land, where I have said, that it should accept a programme of agricultural land, all those municipalities and cities that have brought this to the previous regulations, because this will greatly speed up the procedure, and it should be known that those who did not deal with agricultural land, that local self-government units are going to have to do a huge and big job, and that there will be complex and difficult situations. And once again, he would return to the disputed or most controversial provision of the article of the law, that is, the 36th, where the really legislator still needs to take his time, because I personally consulted several lawyers, who say that this article will be inconclusive and raise a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68685	Thank you. A cross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68686	Thank you, too, for asking. You were talking about law enforcement, 17 regulations are in the works, high-level construction. We have such information from the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm sure they should be able to solve some of the misunderstandings that we're having right now. When you talk about the article of the 36th wilderness of the land, we have those abandoned lands that will now be able to be leased for 10 years. So am I, so we're all in favor of putting such land into operation as soon as possible. If it could be done in six months or a year it would be ideal. But I'm afraid it won't be possible to do that. There are hundreds of them, thousands of acres. Well, we've advocated that maybe all these lands are leased, but that it doesn't necessarily have to be done within two years of decommissioning all these abandoned areas, but it's just that for a cow, a calf holding or maybe a pig in Slavonia. It is, and as regards the programmes themselves, available to the land of the municipalities that have made the land available and which are suitable and which will only be subject to review. There's no need to make a new land supply plan if you've already decided in your municipality that you've given all the land for 50 years. You've got tenants inside who've been in a quiet lease for 15 years or 20 years. They're 30 years old. And for that land that is not covered by the availability plan in a way that has been resolved, that the leases are resolved will be made an additional available plan and will go to new competitions. Article 36, I'm going back to sublegals again. I hope he'll be with them with some of these misunderstandings if they exist solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68687	Thank you, too. Third replica, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68688	Thank you very much. My colleague Križanić, with your debate about small and big, you actually invited me, because that's a question that's been going through all morning. And that, in my opinion, may be one of the key issues with a good intention of proposing that the OPGs finally come up with an opportunity to buy the country, to clearly establish the criteria of what they are small, which are medium. Why? So when we talk about companies, then they are defined by the Accounting Act and international accounting standards of their division, and the OPGs are generally more or less, let's do the most similar crafts. I think that's one thing that needs to be clearly defined, because if it's clearly not defined, it can create a lot of problems. The other thing that's good in this law is the intention of private land, such land at this point has the most detached to be brought into function. Whether the proposed solution is the happiest solution can be discussed, proposals can also be made. But when you go to Croatia and see how many unprocessed surfaces unfortunately the highest part refers to private surfaces, then it is our tragedy and I will end it. The last 14 years from the state budget of the last 2.3 years have averaged between 3 and 4 and half billion kuna in the EU budget. However, when you come to the market, when you come to the shopping chains, when you enter our hotels, and when you look at what we place on the Adriatic, the question arises, and what did we encourage with 3 and a half billion kunas of budget money? And I think that's the question we're going to have to answer someday. If we are to use these incentives well, first of all, we must bring the available agricultural land in an adequate way to the purpose, to those who produce, not to those who receive incentives just because they have reported that they have something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68689	Thank you. Mr. Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68690	Thank you, Mr. Shucker, for asking me this and giving me a chance to make that clear. So when we talk about micro and small, when we talk about OPGs and small OPGs and micro businesses are extremely interesting and we have to fight for them. They're sensitive and gentle. However, it is constantly said, it is very clear which small companies are. Small businesses can have, can have a minimum activity of 2 and a half million kuna. That's a 500-hero farm. And 500 heroes is 5 million kuna gross income. That's two criteria. Are these big companies? Are those mastodons? Is that something we don't need? These are the most potent, small businesses are the most potent companies in Europe, and all such businesses are small ones. They pay taxes. They hire five or ten or fifteen people. They're never in trouble. Yes, you said it well we are unfortunately in two thousand and now eighteen years we have less products per unit of agricultural area than we had in the former Yugoslavia which is a problem, which we have to tell ourselves is living truth. Yeah, you need to encourage micro and small, you need to. But you should also tell the truth that you can't open up the OPGs or micro-enterprises for 20 kunas and then just draw incentives without the obligation of an employee and without the obligation to pay rent or rent. It's very important to say. So we are for the little O.P.G. If we weren't up for it, so we triggered the O.P.G. Act, we'll bring it in now. Therefore, it is very important to distinguish in this OPG Act, which is a serious agricultural production, which is to deal with agriculture for its own purposes. And it will certainly and very clearly distinguish direction. But if we won't step forward to save small businesses, then there's nothing to talk about anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68691	Thank you, too. In front of the Live Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA, Mr Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68692	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. There were several mentions of Slovenia during today's debate. Today, data from the World Bank on the wealth of the state are published, so Croatia has a population of $150,000 and Slovenia has 350,000. So for almost one and a half times, Slovenians are richer than we are, and they have no sea, and they have no agricultural land, and they have no territory, no people, and as possible. Well, that's possible precisely because we have very bad resources, and one of those treasures, of course, could say the key agricultural land, we're here today discussing the law on that land. According to official statistics, Croatia has 2 million 700 thousand hectares of agricultural land, and processes only one million and 100 thousand or approximately 40%, so we haven't even used half of the country. The estimates also show that Croatia puts the country in place to immediately increase GDP by about 6%, so 6% would increase GDP and the population's wealth would certainly increase, and the difference between Slovenians and us would decrease. Surely one of the reasons why we don't put the country into function, the mess of land books, the mess of not knowing what we have at all. Partly, it reflects the general glamour of our bureaucracy that no job can do properly, and on the other hand, it deliberately creates chaos because in chaos that any speculators have the possibility of getting rich overnight. How to interpret, for example. The fact that DZS has one record of agricultural land, and the ARCOD Central Recording Centre has 425 thousand hectares less in the record. So where are those 425 thousand acres, somewhere in the air that someone doesn't know how to make that difference at all. Why, for example, there is no such thing as an ARCOD. maps with a plot of state land in which to know exactly which land is leased, which is free and at the end of the day as much as there is. We here today, among other things, heard very interesting claims from the minister himself, and it was in the laws concerning agricultural land that wrote interesting lobbys during the former ministers. I'd really like to hear if it was all the ministers of past agriculture who allowed their interesting lobbyes to write them laws? Was that Mr. Panenic? He's not here right now. Was it Mr. Jakovina, was it Mr. Cobankovic or do I not know Mr. Pankretić or all together? We also heard the claim that Agrokor wrote agriculture laws, so it's an indirect recognition of what the Living Wall is saying all the time, which is that the ministers of puppets are in the service of large capital. Now we've heard confirmation from the minister himself, I'm glad we heard that. What are the guarantees that this is not happening right now? So here's Minister Pankretic telling us, this law was written by my people. And who are your men? Who are your men? Are your people also some interesting groups, is it possible that these are members of the HDZ you've been pushing into the Agricultural Chamber or are they finally some experts, don't give God to peasants, people who deal with agriculture, so they get a chance to influence what they're primarily concerned with? Here I'd like to get to those questions if at all possible answers. I also owe it to the public, and I believe because of some of the representatives who sleep in their ears because we see that there are no 80% here as usual, noting the fact that the government has been planning to sell state land since 2020. And as already mentioned by bridge colleagues, in some EU countries it is prohibited. People, governments, political parties have fought not to do this because agricultural land if you want to be in your own territory, it is state territory and should not be given into the hands of foreigners because then comes the question of sovereignty. It's a matter of national security. Our governments, our ministry has already sold strategic companies such as the Croatian Telecom or INA, allowed the destruction of the shipyard for the sake of lobby interest, which advocated the rapid entry into the EU, allowed the import of GMO food we heard on Friday because nothing could be done, HDZ representatives say, we allowed concessions on water sources. More than 30 water sources are in private hands today, we lost, say, one Studenac or Jamnica, etc. Why would they finally give the land? What happens when we sell the land? Then we'll sell air? Are we going to be strangers in our own country? And I would like to point out that the country can already be bought, can be bought in a way that if you buy a company in Croatia, you automatically buy the land that this company owns. In doing so, I would like to ask a very interesting question that we have not heard the answer to today, which is whether EU citizens are considered foreigners under this law or by legislation, or whether foreigners are considered to be non-EU citizens? If foreigners are the only citizens outside the EU, that means that we have already allowed the sale of countries to foreigners. So it can be bought by members of 27 states before 2020. I would also like to refer to another statement by the minister and some HDZ representatives who claim that this law has been written for small farmers. Well, here I am yesterday, and I called the small farmers, spent all day calling the small farmers. I called Slavonia, I called in Lika, and I called in Dalmatia, and all the little farmers say it's not true. That this law was written to destroy them, not to help them from first to last. Now I don't know who's right, whether the minister and I don't know the representative Križanić who says we're protecting the little ones or those people who say it's not true. I'm kind of a representative of the people. I'm always on the side of the people, so I'll say it's not true. If we work for these small producers, why do we allow companies like Monsanto to enter the Republic of Croatia? You know the name of their office? An office for the countries of the former Yugoslavia. No, not for Croatia, for the former Yugoslavia is called their office. You know what they said in the interview, their director, I don't know if you're reading interviews, we'll take 35% of the agricultural land in Croatia. 35 percent, they're on their own. That's what their director said, that's not what I said. If a small farmer is protected, how can 35% of all agricultural land in Croatia be given to one company? Did you know that when Monsanto entered Argentina, Brazil, in Argentina in particular, 300,000 small farmers failed. On the one hand, we say we protect small farmers, so on the other hand you let Monsanto buy the Croatian land unlimitedly. Could you tell Prime Minister Tim Oreshkovic what he needed 10,000 acres in Slavonia? Can we, after a year, get the gentleman back from where he came from find out what he needed 10,000 acres for? What kind of business secret is that? What do you have as a representative of the people to hide from MPs, to hide from the people? Tell me what it was supposed to be for. Here's what I'd like to know. If you were to tell us this information now, I might even believe that you are advocating for the transparency and protection of small farmers. As long as you've been hiding this information, we have the right to doubt it. What's the definition of a small farmer at the end? We've heard here several times about the disputed 36th law mentioning micro-enterprises and small businesses. That article will be amended because we think it's a people's scam. So according to the definition that is valid, micro-enterprises are the ones with a value of up to 5 million kuna and small businesses 60 million kuna. What is this small company in Croatia worth 60 million kuna? There are official statistics, you end up with that association Life that brings together these small family economies, according to their statistics, 80% of the OPGs are worth less than 200,000 euros. So less than 200,000 euros, or a million-and-a-half kuna equivalent. So if the vast majority of OPGs don't have more than a million-and-a-half kuna assets, what can a small company call what has 60 million kunas? How many OPGs in Croatia have 60 million kuna worth of property? Five, 50? Are those the little producers we're thinking of protecting? So we believe that this supplement of small businesses should be completely removed from the law. It just needs to be erased. And micro-enterprises are controversial, but let's call up to 5 million kunas still somehow a small producer but this small company definitely doesn't. Furthermore, a space for speculators is opened in such a way that those whose agricultural activity is not a basic activity are fully equal in the country's award procedure with farmers. This specifically means that if I did not know much about agriculture except perhaps so much that I have one garden, I am completely equal with some OPG or some farmer who may be engaged in several generations around the assignment of a state country. And then it could be, who? They can be politicians, they can be community chiefs, they can be all kinds of lenders who will take the land not to process it or to do something useful, but rather, to muddle the country, to eventually get state incentives and eventually use the construction of party infrastructure. Because let us be honest, as the minister himself admitted during today's opening presentation, voices were bought on agricultural land. The state country was given without public competitions, incentives were also shared according to party capacity. The country and incentives were given to win countless elections in countless municipalities that Croatia has, 5 hundreds and some units of local self-government. That was the goal. And today it is known that one who is not on the line will not get the incentive and will not get the land and that is unfortunate. And first of all, we should go to the end of all these huge municipalities and then pass one of these laws because one of them is doing really well with one another. What's the consequence of all this? Well, here's what I'm going to say. In Slavonia alone, 120 villages were completely extinct. In Slavonia today you have fewer employees than pensioners, I'm not talking about Croatia but about one region. 0,9 persons employed by one of the pensioners. How many classes have disappeared? How many schools are half empty? Why was the party's interest once preferred instead of a long-term sustainable strategy for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia? After all, since I'm running out of time, I'm gonna say this. This law should be corrected immediately, Mr Križanić, and not later amendments to the law, and ultimately it should be prohibited to sell the country to foreigners in order for Croatia to have a future. Let's not forget that sinister statement by Henry Kissinger who controls food production, controls people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68693	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68694	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bunjac, you have opened a very important question, I don't know where you get this information from, but it seems very impressive when you say that if the land in the Republic of Croatia was put into operation completely to allow GDP growth of 6%, that's a huge amount. Look, we have big problems in the health system, the pension system, the education system, this kind of money would be very welcome to us. So what is crucial and for this law is important to put not only agricultural land in operation but to raise the level of agricultural production, it is crucial. And I think that from today's debate and that should be a conclusion, whether this change will lead to it. You're wondering how the ARCOD and the State Statistics Institute have different data, so just for reasons, since 2000, when and when there are colleagues from the HSS who went first into this problem, the adoption of a programme of agricultural land in local self-government, the introduction into possession, the tendering, you know what's happening to you? People made land use contracts and never physically entered the land, they didn't even know where the land was left, they could only get in by helicopter. They were given this incentive, but the moment the ARCOD filmed it that they didn't actually enjoy paying the rent and they couldn't get the incentive anymore, there was a problem. That's where you get those differences. We don't have a condition in agricultural land. My county has 50,000 acres and more than 54 000 I mean plots, particles. Arondation, composition, these are all serious things that agriculture needs to do to achieve its goal. And once again when we talk about history, the minister has the right to call the former ministers, but in 2007, the priority concession agreements were concluded where they received large systems of 300, 400 hectares of renting a very high-quality land, but you know what the paradox is now? They're doing good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68695	Thank you. The answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68696	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sagar, I have come to this data by talking to farmers' associations and some magistrates of agronomy as well as through DZS data. So, current agricultural production participates in GDP with about 5%, knew 40% of agricultural land is usable so that essentially if you put the remaining 60% into office, it's logical that the percentage would actually double or be slightly higher. As far as these incentives are concerned, they are believed in a large part used precisely for political purposes and in some regulated country, in fact, these incentives shouldn't even be needed. If the Croatian government were to run a policy to protect the domestic producer, that means protection from imports, the villagers would certainly be rich enough not to need any incentives. In that case, all those with land would simply process it because it would be their source of income, and this is their source of income, in fact, an incentive. They take land, report some projects and then you have images that spontaneously appear in the media, that you have a horse farm where horses are dying or you have a horse farm without horses. And in fact, the state runs a completely wrong monetary and economic policy that destroys the village so that even if they were properly used, they would not significantly improve. So this is the issue of the entire economy and only one indicator that shows that Croatian domestic production is collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68697	Next replica, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68698	Dear counterpart Bunjac, Croatia's agricultural strategy received two blows. The first blow was in '94. Turning the CNB into a currency exchange office and the second and final blow took place by abolishing customs duties or by entering the EU. The comments for this reason, due to the unrealistic exchange rate of our kuna currency and the binding of our currency to the euro, we found ourselves in a situation that imported products are cheaper than domestic ones. In order to protect domestic production, the state had customs duties. These customs duties on imported agricultural products have collected import products and how much they have kept our agricultural production competitive. And what's going on? As I have noted, by entering the EU, all customs duties are lifted and our agricultural production has broken down. And the question is whether the proposed law will solve the burning problems in agriculture, which are invaluable domestic production because import food is cheaper, leaving the village, its disappearance and ultimately the breakdown of an entire agricultural region, or Slavonia. My opinion is that it will not and it is regrettable that the legislator is missing out on this and that these problems I am talking about are not being looked back at at at at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68699	Mr. Bunjac, responds to Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68700	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pernar, you're right that we increase food imports year after year and that just shows that the agricultural strategy is not right. Last year with about 8.8 billion kuna, we already have over 10 billion, so in one year we increased food imports by about 12 to 15%. It's a shame to hear so much agricultural land that we have, we have to import food. I also asked myself this morning why not give some priority to vegetable and fruit production, I did not get a satisfactory answer, so Croatia certainly has opportunities because all of those former statistics show that 3 to 4 times more food was produced in Croatia than in days. Here, take the beginning of the 20th century. At the beginning of the 20th century. Croatia has 2 million... At the beginning of 21. 500 grand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not that someone's megalomaniac, it's actually that we should simply rebuild those possibilities that we had before. But we've seen that, in fact, neither we here in the Parliament, nor even the minister himself, can we decide that. The minister tried to introduce protective measures towards food imports. And how did it go? It has passed so that its regulations have simply fallen, that the diameter has been publicly scolded, and it is now working further within what is possible, and there are not many tools available. The fact is that there are protective customs, the fact is that the Kune course is real and there is some sort of organized ransom, so that all peasants can live normally. I believe that one large part of them, would be as rich as they used to be. I remember as a child, that the people of Baranja were the concept of wealth, and today they are the concept of poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68701	Thank you, too. And in the end, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68702	Mr. Bunjac, you've said a lot. I agree with one of you, protecting the sale of land to foreigners, we've talked about it many times. That's where I always agree with you. But let's go to the metrics now. You said that you, you even have a problem with this, that the country is assigned to micro-enterprises. Now I'm curious, I'm asking you, what's your target group, then, are those weekenders? Are these amateurs or are they targeted groups you'd give them? You were speaking the ultimate line of small businesses, on the other hand you're talking, I was talking about, that it's not only an interest to rent land, to give people an incentive, but to have some kind of reference offering, from that country that's been leased and for which the incentives have been paid. 3.5 billion was just said before. We with less than a micro, I don't know what kind of reference we can make. On the other hand, you were talking about malfeasances and Monsanto and 25% of Oreshkovic and everything else, about all of this, you have knowledge of malfeasances, why don't you report it all? Well, you're a congressman, you're entitled to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68703	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss clubs, Mr. Branko... Please, and forgive me, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My bad. The answer to Mr. Bunjac's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68704	Thank you very much, Representative Križanić. Well, we agree on some questions, theoretically, however, when the realization of theory by your government is not in line with your thoughts. So, you say let me, as a parliamentary representative, conduct investigations, report etc. Well, we're a legislative authority, I'm not a judicial authority, I don't believe you know that in orderly democratic countries, legislative, judicial and executive powers are separated. So it's not my job. I'm here to just talk about the Agricultural Land Act. Yes, but if I were Minister Tolusic or I don't know, State's Attorney Dinko Cwitan, I'm sure these things would be settled. Surely you wouldn't wait until the day of judgment, to get something started, while it's obvious that big problems exist. As for micro-enterprises, so we're not against micro-enterprises, you'll see that in the amendment, which we just handed over in the procedure. So let the micro-enterprises stay. But, these small businesses, we are against it, not because we are against you, but because they have advised us, just about all the farmers we have contacted. So, about that, there's just a consensus. You may know some others, who think you should stay, but here's how long I've been able to talk, and in the end I live in the country, you know very well, they're against it. And that's their main objection to this whole law. They also say that in some ways, the Ministry of Agriculture wants to deceive them with that definition. Here, please consider it, not now, just because I said, be against it. Act responsibly and don't sect. And we sometimes support your laws, no matter what you suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68705	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Branko Hrg, in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. The law that we are discussing today, as I said in my first reading, I will say today, is certainly a much better law than the one that is still in force, and that is the worst, of all the laws that have been passed on state agricultural land and the management of state agricultural land. I listen to debates here, we listen to debates on the Committee on Agriculture, we listen to various associations, which gather different groups, people who deal with agricultural production, and I have to say, that I didn't feel very much opposed to each other in those attitudes and exhibitions. We, like the HDS Club, HDSSB, will support this law in a second reading. A little bit of an analysis of his differences from first to second reading, about 23 remarks from first reading were accepted by the ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia, which says that the debate in the first reading was not in vain and that the ministry was very much valorising the proposals and remarks made here. And it certainly led to an improvement in the legal proposal between the two readings. We have to crash ourselves a little bit and look in the mirror and say that we have long ago, as the state has made huge gaps in the management of one of the most important resources that the state has at all and this is agricultural land. Today we're hearing about whether the land will be sold to foreigners. So if the state favours a 25-year concession with this law plus a 25-year extension, then I think it protects the country from such possible transactions that are going to take place. And you know where it's going to happen? It will happen under those previous laws when land sales are allowed at affordable prices, to people who have given economic programmes where one part of them has not implemented these economic programmes and now that they own 1/1 in grants they will be able to sell the country to whom they wish. That's a fact. If the state gives the country a concession, the country that is given the concession and the long-term lease will not be able to sell it to a foreigner or anyone else. We missed this part a long time ago. There's little left now. These discussions were supposed to be at the beginning when it started to rule, they were passing laws on State agricultural land, when it was an invasion like in the American Wild West who succeeded the flag will be his. At the time there was a trend the country should go to the agricultural producers in ownership. They'll know best how to master it. I'm sorry, gentlemen, I have to say that I know from experience, from practice that I have the knowledge that some people who bought the land like that were reselling the same land and no one could do anything to them. Everything was legal. We missed. State agricultural land should not have been sold at all, but should have been given to long-term concessions with the possibility of extension as long as the family or the company is engaged, the company is engaged in this production in accordance with the programme or possibly in changing the programme if they intend to change the production they are working on, and it is still agricultural. I am pleased to accept that observation that, based on the tax administration's assessment, this relationship between the state and local self-government is actually being resolved. We must also keep in mind and look at this problem in general, which is the target group. Should the agricultural land of the state go to some category of social care or the development of agricultural production? Whether according to those groups that should therefore try to survive, even though it will be difficult for those who have potential and who can develop production, increase production and employ more people. I think that for a long, long time we've been dealing with this problem the wrong way, that for a long, long time we've been looking at it just wrongly looking at the social component and trying to save something that couldn't be saved. And that's also one of the reasons why today's situation in Croatian agriculture is what it is, and it's certainly not good. There's no dilemma about me. I think that agricultural land must be directed towards the CAPs, micro, small enterprises, societies that have the potential to develop agricultural production. This law restores domicileness to local self-government units. I'm not too happy with that, although it's a good step in relation to what I did before. It might be much better, however, if, at least with the domicillability of the local self-government unit as some other additional criterion, it allowed the country to gain in concessions and rentals and producers within a 50 km radius of which there was a lot of talk here. Because simple practice shows that there are plenty of such examples and that problems arise at all where no such procedure can be carried out. But well, the law is not a sacred letter, the law can always be changed, it's changed many times. If you need, if you see in practice that something is wrong, that something cannot be done is certain that the ministry will be that I at least believe which spottly propose improvements, changes to the law to make it more enforceable. Because I also believe that, and the bigger and more on many occasions, this article 36, apparently after all the discussions and counselling, consultation will be very difficult to implement in practice. But realistically looking, and we need to be clear about that. There is little left of that land that is available. Somewhere around 70% of agricultural areas are in the hands of private owners in the Republic of Croatia. Much of the land has already been allocated to the state. There is much less of the real land for which farmers are hungry. I hope that the ministry in drawing up the final proposal of this law has done the simulations of Article 36, that it has tried to put in some kind of a test to say what it would be when the competition was opened, who would be able to pass in such a contest, how much it would be possible to calculate the points and how it would end all together because, of course, it would be easier for us as representatives to talk about it and accept the proposals made by the ministry. At the first reading and after the first reading and discussion at the Croatian Assembly of the Law on Agricultural Land, there was plenty of later speeches and comments, here I am looking at my colleague Lenart, who even declared him not to be a farmer, and we know he does, and I am told that what I have to discuss about land, agricultural, and that I have never dealt with it. Well, I did, and here are the messages I've been doing for many years, even agriculture, pig farming, and as head of local self-government, we've been doing available programs, calling competitions, and running these competitions. And I have to say that it's a very, very demanding job to conduct a tender and that in the end he ends up being all satisfied. In the end, no one is ever satisfied and it's always someone's fault. That is why it is important, so I am going back to this article in 36 and those acts that need to be passed and all the rules and points where local self-government really needs to be careful to make it easier to implement this law and to make it as transparent and simple as possible for people not to be in a situation where no one wants to be. There have been a lot of speeches here from some colleagues, insinuation about some sort of setting-up of anything, I don't know if it's been done anywhere, I just know that the procedure on the availability of state agricultural land on sale, the lease has always been quite complicated, that it's always been under public increase, the ministry, the state's attorney's office except in those last few years during Minister Jakovina's time, and that there's not quite as much work as it can be said here. But what's important is that the Land Agency goes to the Ministry, the Agency's first reading was still planned, and then I said that it's the job of most control, now it's the job of the ministry. If the control is not carried out, if that control does not extend backwards as far as possible, and if the deadlines have expired, if nothing can be achieved by some who have possibly manipulated the state, at least know who they are. To carry out the controls, to make order in that part to stop once with all kinds of insinuations, to manipulate the public about some malfeasances in that part, only to control these new programs, but also those past programmes, because there are certain cases that people don't deal with the work they got the country for, I say they bought it at privileged prices and it's gone. If and where it is possible where such cases take place, conduct procedures and such a country if possible, let those who wish to do so go back to the State. It's a huge job waiting for this ministry and I hope and I believe it will go into it and it's so uncompromising, it's claiming that we get real knowledge to once remove that Stigm from the management of state agricultural land. From all that I've been saying, I will repeat only we will support this law as a club, but we ask the Ministry to really take care of the documents that are accompanying and to control what is happening to the country and, of course, if there are problems in application very quickly and urgently make those amendments and amendments to the law that will be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68707	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, the first Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68708	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here is my colleague Hrg, you have well noticed that you of one Mr. Stipe Gabrić Jamba have been declared an aunt in kindergarten, me with someone who doesn't work one morning, although I don't do any morning, no square meter of state country what I do is my own country and my neighbour's country about 30 acres, and the gentleman who acquired his fame on potatoes he bought for one kuna and sold for five kunas to the Croatian army. What I wanted to tell you in the replica where you said you disagreed with the sale of state agricultural land, I disagree with such a finding. I agree with what it says in the law that the OPG can buy up to a maximum of 50 acres [50 ha] of land because we consider it to be a decent amount of land from which one family can live solidly. I don't agree that the tech unit can be as many as 10 acres because we know that technology units are somewhere around 15 acres of optimal, so they go up, down. Maybe there are 50 acres somewhere, and I think this condition should be what's going to be the subject of our amendment to the HSS Representatives Club since they sold factories to privates, state-owned companies, buildings and one of the former agriculture ministers peeled potatoes because one building sold to a private one. I believe that both the OPGs and craftsmen can buy up to 50 hectares of state agricultural land and let's not limit them to that because then it's their constant, on these 50 acres they have stability, they can develop, they can participate in funds and develop their mechanisms and resources they have, the rest let's go to the market and let's give them that opportunity, let's all figure it out once and for all, and ruling that this is a good thing and let's make it possible for the OPGs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68709	Thank you. Mr. Hrg's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68710	Comrade Lenart, here's a real replica, you disagree with my view that state agricultural land should not have been sold and I am proving to you on the basis of what is insinuating that foreigners will be able to buy that precisely because a state agricultural land has been sold that these same foreigners will be able to get to that land because if you bought that land, you can now if it's past the deadline, you've enlisted in a garter, you sell it to anyone you want. And it's not the same building and land. The building collapses, makes a new one. And the earth is the earth, it is limited. And I don't see any reason why not for anyone who wants to do agricultural production to get state agricultural land on long-term lease or concession, to be on favourable terms and to have it until the moment that he, his family, the company deals with this business and manufactures. So if he changes the agricultural production he deals with, we allow him to make changes to the program and that he can switch to some production. As long as the country is no longer engaged in this, the country remains the property of the country, it is taken over by someone else involved in agricultural production, food production. That's how I see it. At the same time, I am in favour of making small particles, small plots, maximum sales because there are so many riots, debauchery and problems in the field because of the weeds, because of the various diseases that come especially in vineyarding, that it is simply necessary to do so but also to introduce stronger control in agricultural land and agricultural areas of private persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68711	Thank you. Second replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68712	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrg, I have no doubt and you have pointed out that, as head of the local self-government unit, you participated in the design of the program and ultimately in the contracting of the lease itself. I even agree with you because if I look from the position of the units of local self-government what is now important is the income of many municipalities is exactly the income of renting agricultural land and in this sense land needs to be arranged, rounded up by any arondation, whether it would be the functional units that will then bring significant revenues and through the increase in agricultural production revenues will return to the units of local self-government. But what I see as a problem, you've highlighted it here. I mean, the country is divided, and we need to be clear here. In 2000 when the first programs, here they say that according to the political key in one way or another, most people are damaged but those who have received the country, we assume that it will be difficult to lose it because we assume it will meet all the obligations it has to do with the country. But what the ministry has to do. Despite the fact that, from this bill, this refers to the previous Minister Jakovina's economic programme as a criticism. It exists in this law and regardless of what it does not sting during the competition, it must be controlled, you stressed, the economic programme must be controlled because the only control of the economic programme can see whether the land is functional or not, whether it is in the function of economic development and, in the end, the sustainability of the Croatian village and the survival of the OPG because the OPGs are not just production activities, they are also the way of life and in that part, let's agree, 25 years plus 25 years is some kind of security for people to survive in this area. Someone says it's not enough that they should be able to buy land, but let me agree with you, let's make it 25 years, but without control, it won't be good. How will a young man get to agricultural land if he who owns 400 hectares and does not farm the land according to...?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68713	Thank you very much, thank you. Mr. Hrg, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68714	Well, here's what we agree on in the work, and that's why I'm saying that, and I pointed out that the ministry has one role that looks kind of ungrateful, but in fact, all those people who honestly look at this thing will be grateful. The control must be carried out, so the land has been sold, distributed, by paper, by various documents, by programs, by the criteria they were and definitely no one has ever carried out the right control. Let us not be distracted by the fact that these same people who in some cases did not use land according to the programme they gave when they received it, for the same land they had received before from the state budget huge incentives. So twice, once they got a privileged country, another time they got money from the state budget to actually manipulate the state. You, me, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who pays taxes in the end. Now it goes in part from the EU, but we still have a thing that it must go to those who are engaged in agricultural production, who have a development component, which can boost production, which can be competitive, which can be produced, which can be employed. And that is why this must not be seen as a social category but simply must be seen as an economic activity, an economic branch that has potential and only this way can succeed and therefore that control is necessary, without it anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68715	Thank you very much. The third and final replica of Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68716	Dear colleague Hrg, so definitely that this whole process and I think that's the intention and purpose of all of us here should be transparent. However, he was not transparent. So as units of local self-government ran the process, it doesn't mean that we can't make it transparent. They mentioned colleagues, and you touched each other in the presentation of a certain gentleman. Not according to his colleague, he only sold the cabbage to HVO at multiple prices, which makes it a war profiter, but also usurped state land, and in addition, the land that was purchased or resold under the table. These are all irregularities that exist on the ground and that need to be solved, and no one has responded to that before. What I am going to think about here may be an amendment as regards these two representatives who are representatives of the Municipal or City Council of the Commission, so that it may be a good solution for the transparency of the whole process, to be representatives of the two strongest political options in the city or municipal council, which will ensure the presence of the opposition within that commission. And I think it's going to bring a higher level of transparency because we've often had situations where these tenders were set up, that there were conjectures. I've received a series of e-mails, for example from Obuzen, it's obvious that there have been a series of irregularities, so we definitely need to be here and as a representative body with our amendments and suggestions to ensure that this process is as transparent as possible so that there are no charges of any sort of setup, illegality or anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68717	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68718	Well, I don't know how all the local self-government units were handled. All I know is that this law, or all of those laws, was certainly much more transparent by 2013 and was much more controlled than at the time when the minister was Mr. Jakovina. It's good luck, so in that time he didn't do anything practically, so then the country stayed in the majority. If he had managed to make and distribute the country today, it would have been a big problem. And in local self-government, every head of local self-government who wants things to happen in one normal way will also put in such a single commission people from different options and politically and from the profession and opposition and the position to take it off themselves and the possibility of someone telling him that someone was setting something up because it's certainly in his best interests, given that the law brings back the role of the State's Attorney's office. I don't think it's going to be anyone's goal of trying to do something like that at all and that people are just going to enforce this law much better. And what is most important is that what the land has is put into operation, let those who intend to do agricultural production come to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68719	Thank you very much. In front of the Club of Representatives of HSS Mr Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68720	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary of state with a co-worker. Here on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, a few words about the Agricultural Land Act is one of the most important laws regarding agriculture and agricultural production, because we all know without land, without agricultural land there is no food production and no development of one society, there is no survival of the community especially in rural areas unless we are engaged in agriculture, agricultural production not only because of the food of the population, but just as it is said it is part of the lifestyle and conservation of biodiversity in our country and in general in the world. And that's why I'm saying that this law, that the law should have been passed a year ago, that the law certainly looks forward with great patience to our family farms on the ground and that all of our discussions are going in the direction of making as much quality a law as possible and to contribute to the further development of agricultural production in our premises. What we currently have, that we have a decline in production in agriculture, that our imports of agricultural products are growing, that the number of family farms is getting smaller and smaller especially for those dealing with livestock and that there are fewer in the register. This law must therefore be parallel to what associations from the field are looking for, to make one quality record of the total state and private agricultural land, because there is currently a disproportionate between what we have in the register of ARCOD and what the State Statistics Institute has done through the list of some four hundred thousand hectares is the difference between where these particles are and certainly that in further development it should be defined and clarified. And of course we from the Croatian Peasants' Party welcome the transfer of powers at the disposal of state agricultural land and private to units of local and regional self-government, as it is also part of the Croatian Peasant Party programme and because it was also contained in previous laws that we have proposed. And I'm glad the minister used some of that. I'm sorry he didn't use everything from that law that was good then, where just through the work of the units of local self-government done and good things, that through the programmes available to state agricultural land was defined which part of the state's agricultural land was for sale, which for hire, which for concession, which was taken away from the property. And in this way, the Municipal Councils who best know who was in their midst in agricultural production had the option of choosing. There were also some blurry shops, but there was also the DORH at the end who had to give consent to the competition and the choice of bidders. During the previous period, the DORH was kicked out of that procedure and then it is certain that doubts could be even greater whether everything was in accordance with the law and whether we were all in the same position to get to the state agricultural land. I claim, and most in the field claim they weren't in the same position, which you've been told here many times today. What should surely be said is that through the availability programmes that local self-government units must bring in 90 days here is the opportunity to take over the local self-government unit again and then have responsibility. However, it should be pointed out that part of the law is also inconsistencies, as they say the law says they must adopt the programme within 90 days, and the minister will adopt implementing regulations and other activities within 180 days or 6 months. So how will the local self-government unit bring in programs if the minister will only adopt a regulation that regulates and needs to be available, what must be the economic programme, and how will it score? Well, I think that until the final adoption of this law, and therefore perhaps it is a good suggestion to go into third reading that these ambiguities of the document be brought into line and that this part is purely legislative so that they can all be in the same business for the benefit of our family agricultural economies as much as operational and that the law can be implemented. And here's one of the proposals because we've heard that somewhere in 18 regulations are being prepared, that at a high stage, it's almost as the minister said, most of the rules will implement this law on the ground. So why don't Parliamentarians know what these rules will say, my proposal is, on behalf of the Agriculture Committee, to hold one thematic session and get the members of the Agriculture Committee to see these rules before they come into force so that they can pass on the thinking of the field and their thinking about it because they will in many ways regulate the further implementation of this law. I don't think it's gonna be a problem for the Minister and the Secretary of State to do it that way. It is also necessary to define, through the programmes available to state agricultural land that will bring municipalities, a maximum that can be leased. It says here in the law up to 100 acres of production. Our proposal from the HSS Club to leave this possibility to the units of local self-government, to make their representative bodies and offices as far as possible in their territory as possible, because they know best in the field how much of the country's funds they have, how many interested family farms and businesses for that state agricultural land, and to adapt this documentation to the tender so that as many family farms as possible come to take the land into lease. It was in some previous laws, and I don't think that should be a problem. Also when it comes to sales, we welcome that part of the state agricultural land that will be defined by the municipality, the city and the county, or the municipality and the city, that up to 50 hectares can be bought but not limited to up to 10 hectares. Because you have a situation that next to my plot is a adjacent plot of 12 acres, and I would like to buy it and it's reasonable with the basis that it's one technological unit to reduce the cost of production, that I can buy all those 12 acres and that's how it's defined in the program. This way it won't work and again we have fragmented properties and increased cost of production. So I think that part should also leave that unit of local self-government through the programme and through the definition of which part of the state agricultural land can go for sale enables them to define it by their decision, not legally restricting it, because in this way we will not achieve what the objective is to round property and reduce the cost of production, at least such an objection from the field and I share that opinion. The minister said that the law was written for family farms and that it would have the advantage and that it would return to the domicile that we from the HSS welcome. However, we are also looking for clearer confirmations of this finding, and one of them is, as I said in the reply to the minister, that it is then incorporated into the law that this holder of the family holding of crafts or small enterprises proves that agricultural production weighs part of its income or production, that no law firm that has excess capital enters us into agriculture and that it is in front of our family holding domestically that in practice we have had such cases will not name anyone. But in this way it was once proven by that former law while HSS wrote it by transaction 117 to live off agriculture and that it was your basic activity and that you paid pension and health from income from agriculture. If we so specify in the law, then in reality it will be a law for family farms and thus protect the survival of our people in rural areas and that they can continue agriculture. Here you have put the OPG and crafts and small businesses and micro-enterprises in the same rank. I think that here in the same ranking priority cannot remain a small company because it is already said up to 50 employees and up to 10 million euros in traffic, which is safe and through a rule that will subsequently be passed its great advantage and by the number of employees and by the number of throats that our family farms will not be able to get a priority next to it and to realize their intention to round up their property, of course we from HSS welcome and intend to make peace with that part of the state agricultural land that they lack... the directive that does not pay the fines and the penals and I think that both the Government and the Ministry are willing to do everything in this part to protect cattle farmers, because they have already started to go through inspections on the ground, doing controls and the one who does not have a nitrated directive enough acres already pays their pens. I think that state must stand behind its cattlemen especially when I say that the law is already late and that it should have been passed a year ago and be in office so that cattlemen can produce and protect their property and that we do not pay for the penalty because someone else did not allow them to come to the larger property of state agricultural land. Of course there needs special attention for young people because the chance of developing agriculture is right on young people, and that's what the programs we wrote through the Rural Development Programme say, however, what is in practice. Under this order of priorities, young people will find it difficult to reach state agricultural land, and the proposal of the HSS has given former laws the opportunity to share themselves with defenders, to find a model to divide young OPG, at 10, 15, how much expertise is made that is enough for one start and thus to preserve life in Slavonia, Baranja, Lica, Podravina and other underdeveloped regions and to give a chance to young people who want to deal with agriculture, of course, provided that they have to stay in that area for 10 or 20 years depending on how the legislator foresees it. These were also proposals at the the thematic session of the Committee on Agriculture and in the first reading, and the latter is not incorporated into this final bill, so here I would like to hear from the minister why it wasn't done because we all swear on young people, let's give them a chance, and the young don't actually stand a chance through this law. And it is even more devastating when you look at the competitions of the Rural Development Programme, measures 6.1, 6.3.1. where it was just for young people that the minimum number of requests from Slavonia and Baranja were. They are gone, they have moved away, and those who are left have no conditions to meet the conditions of the competition, and we urgently need to create conditions through this law and through changes to the Rural Development Programme and for these measures to give young people the chance to stay in their village in their home and to deal with agricultural production. We have already said that municipalities and cities have increased obligations, they will also have increased costs because they have to bring the programme, they will have to prepare and call a tender, choose, introduce the property, control it will definitely require additional costs, new employment in local self-government units, then they should also have bigger revenues. Therefore, the HSS club will submit an amendment that incomes are being increased precisely to local self-government units from 65%, county from 10 to 15%, and the state to cut from 25% to 10% because the agency is being abolished, the scale of work, the obligations, and then the costs of the state and then it is logical that there are fewer revenues, and local self-government units to have higher revenues, we think it is a meaningful amendment. It is also important here as well as the state's attorney's office, and we also stressed in our first reading that it is good that it exists as a control mechanism for the legal implementation of these activities, but provided that the state's attorney's office cooperates more actively in this business because the practice has so far said that these processes have lasted for a long time while they give consent for several months, it is simply that the production year is lost because the state's attorney's office has not said that it was carried out in accordance with the law can enter into the property, it can apply for the achievement of the incentives and the production started. I think our proposal was in this direction that within 30 days, the state's attorney's office had to give an answer and that if it could not be considered as having no objections and that it had to be incorporated into the law and it should be more clearly and precise. Also when it comes to the already mentioned sale of foreigners, we have a seven-year moratorium that stands out in 2020, and we have a chance to apply for another three years, and we have good arguments regarding the problems we have in agriculture and I think that the ministry should, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, submit this request for an extension of this moratorium to another three years to limit the sale of land to foreigners. And I'm saying that our OPG farmers who buy 5, 10 acres and round their property will remain engaged in agricultural production certainly will not sell it to anyone but will be engaged in agriculture. And it is always possible to install a mechanism that the state has the right to buy first, it should be installed, that if someone no longer can or does not want to deal with agricultural production, they want that agricultural land they bought from the state to sell that the state has the right to buy at the same price that it sold to take that agricultural land and continue to place on the market agricultural land to interested agricultural producers and then there would be no risk of being bought by foreigners. I've already said we don't need to limit that part to 50 acres per 10 acres, and we're going to make an amendment to that. And when we buy it, it's important that we allow our O.P.G.s to account... Thank you, and I think if we want to help the OPGs respect our remarks and this will depend on how we vote. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68721	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, so you'll be able to clarify. Mr. Sagar, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68722	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Vlaović, so as a representative of the HSS, I must say very openly here you have a lot of right to talk about this issue because in 2000 the HSS made a significant contribution when the first programmes for agricultural land were adopted because before that time we didn't even have defined forms of availability, that is when the lease was first introduced, concession. And on that side of it is your debate that tells me clearly again, you have the OPGs in the first place and you say that this law should actually allow the OPGs to reach agricultural land. It's one of the aspects I see as crucial, with the rise in agricultural production. And you're right about 160 thousand O.P.G. about 10% or 16 grand has carriers younger than 40 years old. And you say that a hard young man will come to earth, I can even say impossible, how he will come. Maybe these suggestions that you've been saying to introduce maybe some kind of mentorship, that a young man if he wants to deal with agriculture that there's some kind of priority lease... 10 acres and let it be proved, let him bring an economic programme, let him show that he can work, and let him continue to do this activity. And what the minister won't admit when I told him on many occasions, I want to hear your opinion. He says the information system wasn't built by law, so it's on the state's attorney's office, but the information system, and if it's obtained, it's not according to regulations, but it has to live. You say you have to prove someone is dealing with, so what's there to prove to you, so everything in the transparent information system is seen, his blood count, according to his OIB, so it's possible that he doesn't have any inputs or exits, and he does agriculture. Where did he buy the fertilizer? Where did he buy the oil? So what's this man doing? And the incentives are well received. So the information, I don't know why it's getting away from the information system, and that's the key. Competitions could also be conducted through information systems, and then it would be much easier for municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68723	Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68724	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you have well noticed that, unfortunately, from one time or more hundred and ninety-seven thousand enrolled in the Register of Family Agricultural Economics are now somewhere under 170, 165 and so we have a huge fall. And what's more, we should all be concerned that most of the carrier is over 60 and even 65 years old. And that we must build our future through strategic thinking about the development of agriculture on some new forces, which are just young people from our villages, our cities and cities if they want to come to the country and deal with agriculture, give them a chance to get to the state agricultural land and start doing agricultural production and give them all the professional help. Our proposal said that if already under this law it will be difficult, we will see what rules and points will be like, that the young family agricultural economy will succeed in renting or concessioning state agricultural land, and we have a problem in the field to keep our villages empty, that the only way to build up for them then is to open up a national agricultural land fund to help young people who want to deal with agricultural production and thus give them a chance to stay in Slavonia and Baranja. If it could be and it's good that it's been given to defenders who are after the Homeland War want to deal with agricultural production, I don't know why they care, why it's not respected until the end, and then it needs to be considered and it's one of the models that we can save the survival of young people in the village and deal with agricultural production. And of course the state through the Payment Agency and other state bodies has quality records and that it can clearly see who deals with agricultural production and that only this mechanism should be incorporated into the law, that it must be submitted to the tender, and then from the records, the paying agency delivers to the family holding that has reported to the tender that it is actually registered in the ARCOD register, that it has had so much annual traffic, so much incentives and that as such it will have x points. Here's what we can do transparently to give everyone an equal chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68725	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68726	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I come from the village. I've been doing cattle, still dealing with my son, and it won't be long. I held nine horses, hundreds of sheep, hundreds of pigs, worked mine and others as well as many in my village. There were about a hundred cows in my village on an O.P.G. In my village, there were 25-swimming farms. Those who did this know what the size of the job was. There's a lot of people here talking about agriculture, and they don't know you're sorry about how many sows he's carrying. And they all talk and reason and talk. It is known how the village came into existence, how it survived, and how the village failed. We know that sometimes it was paid and tax paid to someone and they managed to live on and on fairs and on other things, people survived from bed to bed. You know what that was like. How will a young OPG-ac in the village survive if he holds cows and can't hand over milk to anyone or isn't it worth it? How's he gonna hold the pigs if he doesn't know who he's selling the pigs or the finished locks to? What if you have Lidl, Bill, Konzum, and all the others who import full-on tows every day across the border. And here's the last video, this meat in Lidl that was. I know what it was and what it was inside. A lot of people don't know that. Everybody thinks it's broken. It's not. It is about the fact that the Croatian village was systematically destroyed by all the ministers who were here, and that is the indicator of Mr. MP Pankretic who said when I came to the Croatian Parliament I was a rich man, and you were a goddess, and you are now rich, and I am a goddess to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68727	Thank you very much. Yes, the answer to the replica. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68728	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Culey, I'm glad that this is how you replicated the agricultural land law debate because I come from the village. And mine have been farming and dealing today, not as big a family economy as yours. But the fact is that less and less people are engaged in agriculture precisely for these reasons that the state, the state policy of all the governments so far, has put them on the market. We weren't ready for that market, we didn't stand by those people when we dared to tell them to enter the operational programmes for cattle, for pigs, for poultry. We let them go to market at milk prices, then four kunas made loans, and then everyone knew they couldn't survive, but they gave them loans. And most of them shut down the farms and are currently in that group over 300,000 blocked. And we need to find a new strategy to develop agriculture opportunities and give those people who are in trouble a chance to continue to live and deal with agriculture, but also believe in these circumstances that you have listed there are still young people in the country who want to stay in the country and deal with agricultural production. But then we must pass them through new laws and give them new opportunities. That's why I've been discussing it like this, and that's why I expect we have a law that will be enforceable on the ground, and I'm going to give myself an equal chance, especially for young people. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68729	Thank you very much. And now Mrs. Goddess at least in front of the Club of Representatives of the HNS if she'll leave us alone Mr. Hrelja who came here to interfere. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretaries with associates, respected colleagues of Hrelja and other colleagues and colleagues. Here we have today the final proposal of the agricultural land law. The importance of agricultural land is already indicated in the second law, which states: “Agricultural land is well of interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection.” Therefore, it is not surprising to have this number of discussions and interested public on this subject. I am sure that all previous agricultural land laws have been passed with the intention of managing this good as best as possible, that agricultural land is maintained and suitable for agricultural production, that it is not damaged by intensive production, that maximum yield and economic performance be achieved at the same time. There were various legal solutions, many of them well imagined, but unfortunately in practice there were many problems. Some of them were objective, but many were subjective and depended on the actions of institutions and individuals. If we take such an establishment of the Agricultural Land Agency, only the establishment of this agency should bring positive things, for example. All agricultural land records were to be found in one place. Information was to be introduced, all the information on lease contracts and payments from units of local self-government was downloaded, but unfortunately it never fully revived because if it had come back, it would have been a really different result than we have now. The agricultural land agency did not do its job as provided for by law because it did not have the capacity to carry out this large and demanding job. It did not control the lease contract as regards regular payments because it did not even take over all the data on contracts from units of local self-government, let alone to control the economic programmes on which agricultural land was leased. This bill provides for the abolition of the Agricultural Land Agency and the transfer of business to local self-government units, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village. This legislative change is foreseen to reduce administrative barriers and facilitate and speed up the availability of agricultural land and allow for more effective soil protection and control and more effective control of agricultural land use. I hope that the units of local self-government, ministry and the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village will have enough resources to do this job and that we will not meet again after some time with the same or similar problems as with the agency that was also well-imagined and regulated. This final proposal for a law on agricultural land has adopted a lot of proposals and remarks by the representatives who discussed this law in the first reading as well as proposals from the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to make some changes in relation to the first reading proposed by the representatives and the parent committee, which are respected by the proposings. Therefore, it is accepted that the Committee on Agriculture, as referred to in Article 29(2), is to make a proposal for a programme to be made available to the municipal and city council by the head or mayor. It was also accepted to cut the deadline for giving the county's opinion on the agricultural land programmes, which is really good because it will speed up the process itself that he has known so far for a very long time. In particular, we consider it important to accept the Committee on Agriculture’s observation on Article 30 to introduce a specific category for the sale of fragmented and parched parcels to simplified procedures. We also consider it a good time-limit for paying the rent by the end of October in Article 43. However, there are also a number of objections raised in the debate, and the applicant did not accept them. The fact is that some could not even be accepted as a ban on selling land to foreigners because there is a ban on selling until 2020, we can possibly ask for more moratorium than three years because it is prescribed by law, and it is in accordance with the 2011 Association Agreement, which has been applicable since 2013. However, I believe that the sale will not take place because if we know that we have the possibility of renting for 25 years with the possibility of extending for another 25 years, then there will certainly not be any sale of the land that has been leased. We at the club believe that it was necessary to accept the argument concerning Article 38 that unless the competent County State Attorney's Office issued an opinion within 30 days it was deemed to have no objections. It is precisely an explanation that the opinion of the state's attorney's office is yet another control over the work of the local self-government units, but we know from practice how long these procedures take. If this proposal has not already been adopted, it should be seen how to organise as much up-to-date as possible in the publication of such opinions. However, there may have been a need to consider and analyse the observations related to the allocation of land in the area of units of local self-government to those established in the second unit of local self-government. We know what the size of our municipality is, most of it is really small municipalities, and we think that the administrative limit of the municipality itself is not the best solution. We live in a time when tractors and other agricultural machines can cross great distances in a very short time, it is now quite something else than it was before. Therefore, it might be more logical that Article 36 instead of the current solution provides that those who have a residence or headquarters of a production facility within a 50km radius may come to the competition. Of course, this law will be the ones who are satisfied that they will be a little less content, but there will certainly be those who are dissatisfied. We consider it a good legal solution to favour agricultural land at their disposal to owners and cattle owners because it is important for the country to have sufficient land area to meet the requirements of the Nitrate Directive, but it is good that in this law now all parameters are exactly prescribed both as well as controls. We know what it looked like in practice. Economic programmes were adopted, most of them were written by how many throats and pieces of cattle would be increased, but when it went into control, the programs were only on paper, and in reality we ourselves witnessed a drastic reduction in the livestock fund. There's something else we'd like to warn you about. In particular, Article 54 of the Law, where paragraph 1 states – Based on the lease contract, the tenant acquires the right to use land water in order to carry out aquaculture activities during the duration of the lease. Then in paragraph 4, for the right to use land water for the purpose of carrying out aquaculture activities, compensation shall be paid for the use of water in accordance with this law. The fee is the arrival of Croatian waters. And in paragraph 5. – The basic, the height, the method of calculating the maturity deadline, the time limit of payment to the recipient for the use of the water referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Minister. This is actually about the irregular position of the owners of the ponds and the tenants of the agricultural land. And we don't think this is a fair solution. Because the same thing is paid for renting ponds the same way as renting for land. And now they still have to pay extra water use. Otherwise, we have an explanation, namely, in February 2015, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, through its Department of Water Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture, jointly established and supported the arguments that freshwater ponds do not take water, but retain it and filter it with the quality of water coming out of such ponds much better than the one entering the pond. Furthermore, it has been concluded that the dominant number of Member States of the European Union has no compensation for the use of land water to carry out aquaculture activities. By prescribing such a fee to Croatian breeders, the European market is closed because they are already less competitive than other European breeders. In fact, we consider it another parafiscal imposition that burdens entrepreneurship, as well as the government's own guidelines, and we all advocate discharging entrepreneurship. As already prescribed by this law, and the minister will bring the amount of compensation I ask that we really take care of that amount of compensation and if it will not already be zero, then to be as minimal as possible to contribute, help and place our breeders in an equal position as other breeders from the European Union. This law makes a lot of good solutions, and as it will be implemented in practice, it will contribute to the achievement of the objectives that we all pursue. The HNS Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68731	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas. Mr. Allen Prelec, SDP Representatives' Club. That's why you got up, now I get it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68732	Thank you, Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Honorable Minister, if he comes back, with his associates. Here, for five hours now, we've been discussing one of these important issues, it's obviously important when we've been discussing it for so long, and we're going to have a lot more individual discussions. I think we can all agree, and also by ruling and opposition that the situation in agriculture is not good and that this law clearly came to the agenda to fix it. That this law is good I will say good is when I see that things will be implemented well and when they will bring results. Frankly, I probably do, and all of our citizens have heard a lot of nice words, the good laws we've passed here, however, the result of none. Who's to blame? Let's not go into detail or we'll go. The fact that the result of all these laws that we have passed and inactions in agriculture. We've got bigger and bigger imports. We can list myself thinking on one hand how many products in agricultural products we have enough for our own purposes. I don't think it's more than a finger on one hand. Unprocessed countries have all units of local self-government, I know in particular 50% of the agricultural area is unprocessed. The state country, the availability of a state country, we have a series of irregularities. The fact that the average citizen thinks it's all bad done not to say that there's a lot of crime. Incentives, it's a special story, and in that I think that citizens think that incentives are given to those who are a little closer to the fire and that they're very good at it. I'm not going to get into such a qualification, but the fact is it's not good. And finally, the result of all the laws we've passed we have abandoned villages. Today we were all talking about Slavonia moving out, I'm going to mention Baranja because it's unnecessary every time we leave her out, and Baranja disappears and people leave Baranja. It's all the result of the policy that we've been leading in the last 28 years. I agree that this law is necessary, but what is more necessary for Croatia is the adoption of a strategy for the development of agricultural production in Croatia. It's much, much more important than this law. And in my opinion, I think the strategy should have been adopted first, to see what needs to be produced, how to produce, and then go to these laws that will follow that production strategy itself. When we didn't get into the essence of what Croatian farmers were struggling with, then we passed this law, but here's the law has a lot of shortcomings and I'm going to say some concrete things that I don't think are good and that aren't going in the right direction. First of all, what's imagined should be carried out in local self-government units. I say 50% of local self-government units are unable to implement that. We have 550 units of local self-government, of which we have most of those who are less than 10,000 inhabitants, who have neither capacity nor professional, or who do not have a professional workforce that could do so, and many times they do not have enough financial opportunities to implement this law. I would just point out, and I repeat that here in this House, I don't know how many times, that local self-government units have 16% of the total, total budget of this country, 16%. Of these 16% 3.7 and 22 billion kuna, respectively. Of these 22 billion kunas, the municipality has 3.7 billion kuna, a county with 3.6 billion kuna. All cities of 8.7 billion kuna and the city of Zagreb with 6.3 billion kuna. Why am I saying that? Because I think simple units, it's not enough to place units of local self-government and not grant them funds for that jurisdiction. Well, here's the state always delegates us some new things, and this time it's going to be a state property, not to say we have to worry about fire. He doesn't ask us how much, whether we can or can't, a percentage is determined, he takes care of the fire department, he takes care of the welfare, he takes care of the Red Cross. Here's the latest one, and it's about this ministry, the Animal Law, animal protection, and more than once, here I am in my local self-government unit saying that we care more about animals than people. And it's literally somewhere it is. The state has prescribed how much we need to set aside for animal protection. It's not a topic, but we're moving on. This all goes in favor of what I'm saying is that this important law is delegated and available to agricultural land to units of local self-government that don't have either capacity or enough money to solve all this. So I could tell if our goal is to destroy local self-government units or to help them. Either we go to further centralization or decentralisation. If we go into decentralisation I agree that this law goes towards the local self-government unit, but we also have to get the funds so that all these laws can be implemented. This is a key issue, and I think all the leaders of the local self-government units or those who were in the local self-government unit will agree here. Furthermore, what I see is a problem, we have a different Croatia. It is not the same as Slavonia and Baranja and there problems in Slavonia and Baranja or in another part of Croatia. As far as I know, here in Slavonia and Baranja we have large agricultural areas, there's plenty of state land and there's actually a problem for farmers to get to state land because there's a lot of competition. All of them, they'd all like to compete to rent state agricultural land, but they just don't have all the opportunities to get it. I see another problem in private land, and here we haven't said anything in this law about private agricultural land except that we will punish those who don't handle agricultural land. And unprocessable private-owned agricultural land is a big problem. We in Croatia have about 2.7 million hectares of land in total. Here's about. It's a little less than a million hectares, less than a million hectares of state property, which means most of them are privately owned and we haven't adapted this law to solve the problems of private land. When here, and I have some of my own experience, I'm not a farmer, but I'm a leader, so then I know what worries the farmers of my neighborhood is that I can simply point out that in local self-government units, as far as agricultural land is concerned, most of the land is unprocessable, most of it. And now the problem is how, how do you solve this problem? There are also objective problems why people don't process land. One of the more objective problems we have is nursing homes. There are households whose owners have years and simply do not have the opportunity to process their land anymore. He has an objective problem that young people have left, become heirs, have gone abroad, or have some business, and cannot deal with agricultural production. There are those who just don't pay for it, and it's no wonder. When our land is private, agricultural land is so fragmented. Is it worth half a hectare to work? Probably not. Or maybe yes. I don't know, and I can't say it personally, but that's the problem that doesn't solve this law. In my unit of local self-government, I tried to build a register of unprocessed agricultural land, and here is one of my proposals, which can be reported by all those who for objective reasons cannot process agricultural land, I can't. And I said the reasons were whether it was an old household, that it wasn't worth it, they didn't have time or went abroad. They will not be absolved from punishment, but we will allow their agricultural land to grow to someone who wants to farm land and who needs land. I've had half the success, but if at the state level one such law would have made me, I think you could make a bigger success. I believe that one of the bigger problems is this particular private agricultural land, unprocessed agricultural land and we have to suffer punishments, penalties are fines, unfortunately people will not understand until we punish them, but help them to have this land that they can't farm for some reason come into the hands of those who can and who want to. It's a matter that should be thought about and that the law includes such things. Next, the commission, something colleague Mrak-Taritash was talking about, I think it's a big, big problem and it needs to be solved. This law doesn't solve it or almost solve it just by the way. I think we should deal with it. Half a hectare is not possible to make any agricultural production, serious agricultural production at half a hectare. So we have to worry about simply making it possible for us to seriously deal with agricultural production, with serious dealings. The Slovenians sort of solved it a little bit, they have larger agricultural areas, and I said before in the replica they have banned the fissure of the still agricultural surface. So the heir, whether it's a son or a daughter, can only get one heir to the country, not five heirs, and divide half a hectare into five children. That needs to be dealt with by law. Maybe it's not popular, we'll say that we suppress democracy and that everything is allowed. No, sometimes our democracy turns into anarchy, and I would say that we already have a good sign of anarchy here in Croatia. I think it's one proposal that should be respected and that we can't allow the further accumulation of agricultural land. Furthermore, we need to pass some more drastic laws, laws, and land confiscation, given temporarily or permanently when it is not processed, the long-term is not processed. One of the more drastic laws is the Law on Cruising, the drastic law is also the Law on Encouragement in which we must introduce a revision of all those incentives that have been paid at least in the near past. If we want to do something we need to do, but do not keep looking for reasons not to be drastic and not to launch reforms in agriculture that are necessary. And one of the problems we mentioned here, the minister told me and denied me and said it wasn't true that this law would also please the great one. I think all the laws have so far been great and that should stop. Let's see in particular how to help small OPGs, small family farms, young entrepreneurs so they don't leave Slavonia and Baranja and all the other parts of Croatia and look for bread out there. It's here, but with a joint endeavor. In order to support this, I will read that article that we talked about today, that is Article 36, which states the right of the public tender for the lease have natural and legal persons who participated in the competitions in the following order: 1. the holder of the OPG and the owner of the agricultural craft and legal persons in the rank of micro and small enterprises. Many have already talked about this small company. I think a small company will get in and they'll get a little bigger. Here's something I'd like to continue to be denied by the minister or his deputies, but we're confident that something like this will still please the big one. And let's let whoever did it, whether we did it or not, colleague Culey said they were all ministers. Yes, most ministers are guilty, but we cannot speak in the 28 years of the Croatian state there were 20 years of ministers from the HDZ government, and 8 years were in combination with the SDP and the HSS, so no responsibility was shared although both were responsible. And we are here to simply end this and to pass laws that will be better and to allow for the continued survival of Croatian villages, Slavonia, Baranja and all other parts of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68733	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, first Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68734	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So fellow, you said something that I also pointed out and which is extremely significant, which is that, uh, the unit of local self-government will be the one that will have the land. I mean, there are a lot of unresolved problems here about what I was talking about. We need an audit of existing contracts, who will do them if they are... A unit of local self-governments who are already under-opted for the job. Will the local self-government unit do that? I'll remind you or I don't have to remind you, I think if the local self-government unit is just in HDZ power, if we're going to see that the country is going to be assigned to the donors of these mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, etc.? Well, I think he will, and I think it's going to be a very common opportunity. The dominant population is not given any advantage in the assignment of state land. If we're saying we want to keep people in Slavonia in Baranja, you've mentioned them right now at the end of your exposure, if without giving advantage to the domicile population I don't think we've done anything because I'm going to remind you that the vast majority of our rural population lives on agriculture. So we can also talk about nursing households and young farmers, but if we don't allow them to exist in their village in their municipality, we can expect them to leave, sell their grandfather. The existing owners should have the advantage, it is partly solved. But many of them weren't good masters. It's an honor to those who are. Of course I'm not getting into that. But will local self-government units now determine who was a good master or not? You're the captain. Can you do this impartially, completely professionally in your community or could it have been better perhaps the Agricultural Land Agency? I think this is a step backwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68735	Thank you, too. Mr. Prelec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68736	Yeah, I said this law all delegates to local self-government units and I'm really skeptical if that's even possible. I said most local self-government units at this point are certainly not able to implement it. That's what I'm convinced of. But something else would be replicating you, and you were talking about the domicile agricultural family economies. There was one proposal for an amendment, whether it will go or not, that within a 50km it is possible to declare someone domicile. I think it's one bad thing and something like that doesn't happen because in that case it might happen that someone in the Neretva Valley where we have Mandarins and we can go in a completely wrong direction and go there's gonna be a cattleman who's gonna have a head start in the Neretva Valley, and instead of having Mandarins in the Neretva Valley, we're gonna have a cattleman who's gonna get agricultural land and who's gonna have an advantage over those who grow Mandarin. It's something we just have to disable. So there's a lot of holes in this bill. I hope our resourceful farmers or Croats won't find those holes, and we're here to prevent them from being manipulated like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68737	Thank you, too. Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68738	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's colleague Prelec, through his argument, you actually made one comment on this law. But I'd stay at that part where you might have briefly touched just, and that's the mess of land books. The inconsistency of the grantovnica and catastra is actually one of the main problems why this law will not again find the full application it should have in practice. I will add, of course, the decapitated possessions in general which are at the level of the Republic of Croatia. And these two elements, therefore, unsettled land books and non-implementation, are the main causes why our agriculture is as it is today. And now instead of sorting it out through the central government and giving some kind of means to predict it, then transferring it to local self-government units to do things that maybe are well-defined by law we didn't do. So, again, we haven't made that one prerequisite that we need for agriculture to go up. Because let me remind you, today Croatia is doing some 37% less livestock products than it did in the former state, doing 30% less agricultural products than it did in the former country as well. As for this once again to return to the land books, the cadastral measurements were made only at about 5%, a particle for 70% of the particles still some basis that was made during the Austro-Hungarian period. So these are the key problems. We're not dealing with that foundation again, but we're still going to do things worse than the roof to express myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68739	Thank you very much. Mr. Prelec's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68740	Yeah, well, that's what we do, actually, ad hoc. We quickly concluded a law that I won't tell her is going in the wrong direction, but there are many shortcomings. Here's what you're talking about is noncomcommissioning. Instead of making one law that we're going to well figure out how we're going to solve the state-level commission, we're all delegating it to local self-government units and now the local self-government units are going to fight it. He won't! They don't have options, they don't have capacity, they don't have money. It's just not possible. First of all, we had to make a prerequisite for this law. Here's what I mentioned. The first prerequisite was the agriculture strategy in Croatia. It should be the first document to see what we produce, and then all of this. Then the State Land Act, then the Commission, all that that's being upgraded to it. I'm sorry this law didn't solve much either. Here's my question for anyone to punish? Who will punish those who do not farm land? Who's gonna do it all together when people don't pay when people don't pay the fine? Then how are we going to go one step further, and that's the basic thing. If people see that no one will be responsible for not processing agricultural land, we punish it, and it will not be paid on purpose, and it is not being implemented. Then the question is, why the law? A particular question of mine who will enforce and who will care about punishing those who do not abide by the law? It's a key question, and I believe that all my fellow leaders are interested in the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68741	Thank you. We continue with an individual replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68742	.../Bukarica: Not by individual debate./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68743	...in an individual discussion, I apologize. So Mr. Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68744	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues in the second reading mean we had 21 remarks in the first one. No remarks from the ministry were accepted in part, with this and the committee in charge making observations. Even those remarks were not accepted. Therefore, this law has a series of shortcomings. I'm going to start right away from what I've been doing all the time and I've been saying one more request to go into third reading of this law. Of course we'll give the amendments. I've already sent a personal amendment. I believe that what I said in Article 2, second article, that simple formulation is false. It's true but it deceives those who read, so it says this article I have to read it and it's a little bit more about Article 2 because agricultural land is the basis for food production, and we know that food is strategic, one of the strategic national interests here. Article 2 that the public hears it – The holder of land ownership rights referred to in paragraph 1 cannot be a foreign legal and natural person, – which I absolutely agree with, however, - "point" - unless the international contract and special regulations provide otherwise. Therefore, here a Croatian farmer, the Croatian state is being brought into an unequal position within the European Union which is exclusively looking at its interests, and we will explain this simply. Hungary also had this agreement, and since 80% of the land was sold to foreigners, legal and physical persons in one part of Hungary, then Hungary vetoed that, however, there was opposition from the European Union, the Commission, they issued a referendum in Hungary and the referendum with 80% basically killed this contract and now the Croatian citizen, legal and physical person cannot buy within the European Union in one member cannot become the owner of agricultural land. While I speak of Hungary from the same member in Croatia, their citizen can buy legal and physical land in Croatia. So if the Hungarians have protected this and Croatian citizens can't buy land why would Hungarians be able to buy land if it's of strategic interest? Because that's not what the Hungarians thought of. And even when we take the current situation where many families who have been dealing with livestock and agriculture have left their country, their grandfatherhood and gone outside, and of course it will be sold very easily. Who says the Hungarians won't buy all the land that was abandoned in Slavonia, agriculturally? Who's gonna convince me they won't? And the Croat, the legal and physical person in Hungary, can't do that. I therefore believe that in this article, we must delete this behind the score in order to only remain the property right over the land referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, there cannot be foreign legal and natural persons. And with this in essence, regardless of what the Commission will say, the European Commission, what we have signed, because one member, meaning there is equality in the European Union, here are Croatian citizens, Croatia must protect its interest. Because if all the subsidies and incentives in agriculture so far went to individuals and groups at the expense of farmers it's very easy to explain until back 5, 6 years, we've had 64 thousand dairy producers, we've got about 4 grand on our own. Therefore, these farms are empty, they are on the market, they are open to buying them all land by foreign investors and the Croatian state must not allow that it is not Hungary. So this wouldn't be precedent but would just protect the country as one strategic resource because it's agricultural production and food is one of the strategic resources with energy, water that we have in our country. I think that this has been brought by this servant policy that did not protect national interests and that this time really Croatian Parliament, it will be handed over to the amendments to Club Most, we said and I believe and personally and the Club will submit a number of amendments and I believe that already when it is not accepted in the second reading, I believe that the minister has no answers either. I asked the minister didn't give me an answer, so if the secretary can write it down, if he listens to the secretary and the assistant, to write it down, and when the minister comes to answer this answer, am I right not to turn out to be pulsism later. No, this isn't populism. Croatian legal and natural persons cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary, in a member of the European Union. Why don't we protect the agricultural land from being owned by foreign legal and physical persons? A brief and clear question, and it's easy to amend, we only have this part of the amendment's tribune deleted, and there we would be essentially protecting what we haven't protected so far. I'm going to point out once again the example that we have to, here, you check even this law isn't regulated. It's just that I know in the Potkamesh area, Kameshnica, Svilaj, people get pastures for use but they don't have cattle or people know who these people are, and those cattlemen who have been dealing with cattle in that area for centuries can't achieve that right. I don't know by what criteria and how it's assigned, that's very important? The OPGs here are absolutely unclear to me article 48. where you say that – the agricultural land which is mined and that the one who is the tenant that will demining the land will be required. What, with a tractor plow? Who can do this, maybe he himself has the money to pay for a company that mines or some strong corporate company, but certainly the OPG family holding won't have any funds. And besides, there's lives at stake, there's gonna be a tractor flying in the fields, in the air, no one's gonna be in the parts, they're gonna be dead. So this law allows death, this law is the law of death, the triba to be the law of life, the resuscitation of agriculture. You're renting mined land and that the obligation of the tenant who received the OPG, the man who has it, you're saying that your goal, and apparently this law is not your goal, because people won't have the means to demining agricultural land that hasn't been demined so far. This is the obligation of the state or other EU fund models and all those who need to use these funds to demine and be safe areas of agricultural land so that it can be processed, not that the farmer demines agricultural land with the plow. So don't shine with this law death, don't question this amendment at all, this article needs to be deleted entirely because it enters into the safety of people's lives. It's only in war that people are allowed inhumanely into the mined fields to demine them, to let people go. I think this article 48, that you need to take a good look at it. So once again, it would be best if you all put this in third reading together one more time. Of the 26 remarks, you have not accepted any of them, nor have you accepted them from the board of directors, which is, at the very least, unfortunate. And once again, you protect the interests of agricultural land and strategic interest. Article 2 allows Hungarian citizens to buy land and Croatian citizens cannot buy land in Hungary. And I agree here with... They decided in a referendum that they would not sell agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we can by this law, not by cheating this article, where you say there is no right to foreign legal and physical persons, but a point to international contracts. If that contract had Hungary from Brussels, I don't see any reason for us to delete it, otherwise we're going to launch a referendum initiative. Why don't we have a referendum initiative? First you empty the villages, the whole of Slavonia, Gorski kotar, Zagorje and now the foreigners can buy it. Of course, our farmers in Ireland. Billions of kuna. Here's what I'd like to ask the secretary to ask the minister. I asked him in the replica, he didn't answer. I think I know that he has PR agencies that are well-placed by his information, but it would be good for the minister to answer this question whether a Croatian citizen, a natural and legal person can buy in Hungary's agricultural land and after this law whether Hungary will be able to buy in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68745	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We have three replicas on his display. The first replica is from a colleague of the Predicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68746	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Bulj, you were talking about the European Commission and protecting the interests of Croatian farmers, so I will now say how much we protect the interests of Croatian farmers. We do not need the Commission to hold us back in all this together, but we ourselves are sufficient. Rural Development Measures, measure 6.3. is 400 days late. The measure 6.1 is 350 days late, and the 4.1 is 250 days late, so in this context, when we say the protection of our interests, the interests of Croatian farmers, the European Commission, we can then say that we are not the problem of the European Commission. We're our own problems more than once. Here's something I'd like to mention and let's head together and solve these problems. Furthermore, what many farmers tell me, and you mentioned here and the rent. There's a rent-paying audit to be made. There's a lot of farmers who've come to the contests, they've lost the contest, that other guy's got a contest, he's using agricultural land, and he's not paying the rent. You know how frustrating it must be for every farmer when he loses the contest, and then he finds out that the one who won the contest doesn't pay the rent. That's where we also have to fight simply for this transparency to do a review of all those who don't pay the rent, and that's what's important in all this together that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68747	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68748	Agent Prelec, in this first part, I would not agree with you if he were late. It's targeted... Croatian villages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this law prepares of course stakeholders to take over this agricultural land. And I don't see any reason why a Croatian peasant had to, that we don't have a rich village. So it's targeted, it's not intentional, and this law is, now that it's brought in to have an empty village now they can tell us the foreigners in 2022 buy agricultural land, and we in other countries of the European Union are one, but so we wouldn't be the exception. So the Croatian village that must fight the Ministry of Agriculture has been targeted, planned and systematically destroyed. Instead of the Ministry of Agriculture fighting for a peasant poor peasant fighting the Ministry of Agriculture who doesn't care at all, he doesn't listen to what I'm saying, here. They absolutely don't care about any of the MPs. To this end, the Croatian Parliament has been brought in, advocacy. I didn't hear an answer from Minister Tolusic this morning. I expect him to come to the Parliament and answer these questions because Croatian agriculture is at the bottom. And not only that, but the agricultural land must be handed over to foreign legal and physical persons, and other countries protect it. We're not just gonna be their store, and we're gonna be their workforce. We have to fight for a country where we don't export people, we have to fight for products. We took the peasants to other countries that work quality in German farms, Irish farms, and ours are empty. This is embarrassing from the Ministry of Agriculture, where the Croatian peasant must fight instead of the Ministry of Agriculture fighting for the Croatian village. It's a fact, it's indicators. 64,000 milkmen six years ago were producers, now we have 4600, and billions went into whose pocket? Who took the system?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68749	Thank you. Time's up for a reply to the replica. Next up is a replica of my colleague, Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68750	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Bull, you have touched an important topic. Namely, it is about Croatian cattlemen and you mentioned the karst neighborhood, karst cattlemen. I agree here, and maybe this law in that part makes sense. But talking to farmers who haven't been in agriculture since yesterday, who have been living in agriculture for decades. A farmer asked me a good-looking question. Why would a good cattleman be a good warrior? As a dog, we're chasing our tail, and so is this bill. Why should a cattleman be a warlord? Because he doesn't have cheap livestock food. He's got to produce it himself to make it cheaper. We exported 108 000 tonnes of soy in the Republic of Serbia last year, 108 000 tonnes. There, the soybeans will be processed into soy juice, so we'll probably import it later as feed for cattleherds. Well, of course it's expensive, because we don't have the processing capacity for it. If we don't solve things systematically in agriculture, then we're going to have laws like this that actually sting and scare people, somewhere it's estimated that only 4,000 acres needs cattle. It's not really some large amount of land if that's true. But if artificial conditions are created, if there are really any abuses, then it will be a serious problem, 4,000 hectares is no problem and should not even be passed laws for 4,000 hectares. And what about those cattle that have private land? They are placed in an unequal position especially for those who have the land in lease because they pay far greater leases than for the state country. So this problem should be approached more systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68751	Thank you. The answer to the line of my colleague Bull, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68752	Comrade Sagar, you said the answer in your question. However, the fact is that the Croatian peasant who left his products in silos such as in Djakov, in 2010, but it wasn't one broccoli, or one piece of iron, they were silos, so they were emptied to the last grain of wheat. So empty silos, no one answered, only one minister peeled potatoes for two days because of something at all. But where are the silos, where's the grain? So the peasant was targeted in this position to move out. And he is now a labour force in other countries, not a peasant one man, but a whole family, tradition has been destroyed, the hearth has been extinguished. There are no children's salaries in those birthplaces in Slavonia, Dalmatia, because the Ministry of Agriculture was all working to destroy the peasants. And the peasant must fight the Ministry of Agriculture, instead of the other way around, that he has safety, stability, and not that he only has the stability of the government. It doesn't matter that he has the stability of the government, which is brought to the lex sheriff, they're much more important to the lex sheriff, the stability of the government than the stability of the peasants who will stand behind the Ministry and his peasants. It would have been much better if they'd made one lex for our peasant to protect himself and be safe. They protect the sheriffs, protect everything but the peasants, and that's a fact. It is... an example that Croatian agriculture absolutely thinks nothing of anything. Here's the soil erosion, we have the Sinj field, we have Vrgoračka, absolutely state land is not protected. They're damages, there's a strong storm down there, that most important layer of humus is a storm to take it to know the experts, it's generally cared for by nobody or cared, and who cares if the Sinj field has irrigation, and Cetina goes... nothing worries them except that they work for the lobby of the importers and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68753	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Nikola Grumoja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68754	Comrade Bulj, you've opened up a lot of questions, but what I'm interested in is what's going to happen to those who have been through this whole time, so they've been making a variety of irregularities that have been illegal land usurpers, for example. In my Neretva? What will happen to those who were reselling means, the land they were renting? Will we have the same cases with this agricultural land law? How transparent is this process to be conducted by local self-government units? I've already mentioned the problem here in the town of Obuzen, so I've come to the debate, I've been in some kind of jam all day, but people are sending me emails, warning me that it's important to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament, that people who won the contest land can't enter now because of these usurperes, they can't enter the property, and no one solves those problems, the penalties are nothing. So those who can't get into possession if someone's challenging them, we've got this first DORH slowdown, we've got a low sentence, 8,000 kunas, and a fine of 2,000 kuna. So these are all the problems that no one's talking about, the minister here as you said no. This shows the attitude towards Croatian agriculture, the Croatian village, it is obvious that there are people sitting here waiting for all this to be done, and we have warned of many important things, we have made amendments and we are looking for third reading, but it seems that no one is interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68755	Thank you. Replication response, Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68756	Mr. Grmoy's representatives, of course no measures were provided for by this law, those who gave rise to incentives, were essentially subletting state land. And it was very easy to be trusted and the Ministry and other services had the authority to check it out. And that's the worst thing that a peasant who worked, tortured himself to get the land in a sublet in essence, and the incentive raised the one who got to the competition, as I think incredible are the situations, to the competition of that country. The fact is that this law does not solve it, nor does it matter to them, nor will we get answers from the minister as well as from the first reading when we made our proposals, 26 proposals from many of us from the Bridge Club, none of them accepted, and yet they did not even read it because there are so many worries about the village and peasants. That's why he's a village and a peasant. We don't have to be right, we don't have to, but the fact is we have to protect agricultural land from illegality, and some get rich at the expense and land of the state while others dig and don't know how to survive. It's a sublet. Some create their own empires, while others have neither incentive nor anything. This is very easy to resolve, this law did not mean or care, but it is very important to introduce a few articles that finally foreign owners of legal and physical persons take over an empty Croatian village that was targeted, because the Croatian peasant did not have a stable ministry that felt protected and of course the Croatian village was ruined, and nothing was solved by this law. And once again, I call upon the amendments to go into third reading, to comply with farmers' associations, to finally find a law that will protect agricultural land based on strategic national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68757	Thank you. We continue with individual discussions on the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. The next individual debate is from counterpart Hajdukovic Domagoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68758	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I want to repeat one thing I said earlier in replicas, and I think that's very important, and that's that in agriculture, as in all other things, we lack strategic thinking. So, one of the first things the minister promised us, when he became minister, when he came to the Committee on Agriculture, was just making, a strategy for the development of agriculture or agricultural strategy, whatever it was called, now it's less important. And why does it matter? It's important for many reasons, to know which direction we want our agriculture to lead, how we're going to develop it, whether it's warfare, whether it's farming, whether it's fruit growing, whether it's something else, whether it's a food, processing industry, to which agriculture would then be related, etc., etc. We agree, I think we can all agree that agricultural land, since the state is owned by a very large fund of the country and awarded it one of the burning trials of agriculture. But until we know the main strategic definitions, where we want to go, with all our agriculture, until then all the laws we're making are actually tapping in the dark. They're some ad hoc measures that will strengthen this sector or that sector within agriculture, but clear visions, they won't. This law gives priority to cattlemen, so we strengthen cattlemen. And as I said, indeed, the cattle sector has been affected by a whole series of troubles over the last 3.4 years. From the price of milk, caused by the global crisis to disease, here was the last one being the disease of stubborn skin in cattle, etc., etc., that I'm not talking about the price of pork, that pork is almost, completely unpregnable, that in Slavonia, it's hard to find, buy a pig, which was once unimaginable. So you could have gotten to pork very easily, now that's not the case. So, we're strengthening the cattlemen, but on top of that, who? Ratars, vegetables, fruit trees, etc. Here are just a few examples of how this law will actually make life difficult and complicated, above all, for our units of local self-government, for our municipalities and for our cities, which this land will have to assign. In Slavonia, you have 3 OPGs, grandfathers, fathers and sons, grandfathers of cattle, 50 acres of land, there are 100 throats, son is a vegetable, he has 20 acres of land and son of a son, or grandson, he's a fruit farmer, he has 10 acres of land. They all have to answer, everything's a state country, they all have to report to the competition, and the whole fund will get a grandfather, because he's a cattleman. So he's ahead. We'll get in the way of our families. We're going to jeopardize the existence of people who already have certain surfaces, under plantations, so if we're talking about fruit growing, it's also long-term plantations, etc., etc. Here's an example of the Neretva Valley, which is our famous fruity end. You have, say, 5 farmers, 5 fruit farmers, who also have to report to the competition, grow Mandarins, for example, the Neretva Valley is famous, there will be a cattleman who is not even from the Neretva Valley, and he will get all the land. Is that what we're dealing with? I don't think so. I don't think so. The dominant population, under this law, will have no advantage. So we're talking on our own and I repeat again, if we want to stop the depopulation of our rural areas. At that time, the native population must have the advantage. We have a whole series of what is called a social agricultural household, but we also have many young people who want to stay in the field of agriculture. That is, agriculture is the only way they actually do it, that they have their own existence, if they want to stay in the rural area. Are we going to let them do this? I don't know. Education is a factor, i.e. a criterion, which will only be seen if 2 offers in the competition have the same number of points. But I think education should be crucial, poor by key criteria. To be a productive and efficient farmer, you need to be educated in such a world. This will discriminate against, according to the, being discriminatory towards our students, students who are studying or in high school attending high schools that are agricultural orientations. Well, I guess they know best about agriculture, that kind of production. Hot potatoes are being transferred to local self-government units. There are a whole series of unresolved problems at the assignment of the country. Here, I can tell you, one concrete proposal, from the city of Lower Miholj, where the country, now I'm going to lie exactly how many years, but more than 5 certainly, maybe even 10 years is indeterminate. The contest is closed, the bids have arrived, but the competition has never been resolved. And who is now in possession of this land? The one who's the first one, colleagues and colleagues. So is this Croatia, el dorado, who first, his country. I don't think that's the kind of situation that we all serve. And now to unburden such problems, people who are in possession of the land, etc. They need to be dealt with, our commissioners, mayors, etc. I don't know how productive that's gonna be. The Ministry of Agriculture has returned more than 400 million kunas, unused funds for rural development to the RS budget. 400 million kunas, colleagues and colleagues. And we're talking about the devastation of rural space. So first, we are unable to consume at all the funds that we place towards rural areas, and secondly, we are now going to make it even more impossible for economic activity in these areas. Economic plans will be discussed, says the minister, even those old economic plans, for land management, or for the lease of state land. I'll ask you again, some economic plans are very old. I have no doubt that the vast majority of them produced bona fidl, for good reason, but they took into account some other market circumstances. Circumstances have changed radically through the economic crisis, but in the last few years, therefore, trends, cost-effectiveness of production of certain cultures, or certain breeds, are simply not worth it anymore. And what about the man, whose economic plan it says, that he's going to buy 100 head of cattle, cattle, say, he bought 50, the economic crisis has come, and he's got to liquidate those throats, if they weren't worth it anymore, he's transferred to warfare or livestock in that same country, and who's going to solve it? Chief Prelec, Mayor of Vesligai. My colleagues and colleagues, it's at least inconclusive. The most responsible would be that because of the many suggestions for the remarks that we had on this law, the government would do it again, think about some suggestions and have it in the third reading. I think we're going to produce a much better quality document than we are now. And not to mention, of course, other problems that only relate to the allocation of agricultural land, which is a problem that is often mentioned here, it's a combination. During the term of office of the government of Zoran Milanovic, we passed the Law on Cooperation, it is a long, expensive and painful process, but it is a process which is now stopped by colleagues and colleagues. The prerequisite to have an efficient cost-effective agriculture is to combine, round up the property, and until we do so, I'm afraid that our impulses, or manipulative and logistic costs, will far exceed or largely eat the possible profit our producers should have. So, I'd like to appeal to the Ministry once again, to the secretary of state present here, think about withdrawing the law into third reading. Not because the opposition would get some political points or I don't know what it is, but that in the end, we would really have a much better quality legal proposal than our farmers will benefit from first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68759	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, we have four replicas. The first replica is from counterpart Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68760	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Hajdukovic mentioned the ministers' promises at the beginning of his presentation, which he expected from a minister who has been unable to share even squares of state agricultural land all this time. I will remind you that in our term, only 16,000 acres of that land has been distributed. We consider it a failure of our government, but in these two years, not even a square. He may not be able to make promises to the citizens and to the MPs because he obviously has promises to some people from large capital, large companies, small companies that are certainly bigger than the OPG and has not answered today what happened to those 485 hectares in the Municipality of Sop in his county, which was allocated in a very suspicious way where the domestic population received nothing but, of course, the company from Istria. All we have to do is make sure that this firm is sponsoring the campaign. As for the other things that should be mentioned here, and not mentioned today, at least I haven't heard, this ministry is full of affairs. So look at what happens in certain agencies, who are people whose parents, whose children, whose wives, wives who get the land, and who get the incentives. Well, it's just something that shouldn't happen in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68761	You want a reply to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68762	Is a colleague I agree not to list all the promises that are given probably wouldn't be enough for you all day. But I have to isolate a few, let's say Agrobank, that was a promise made by the Prime Minister himself. A year and a few days now in his term of office from Agrobanka or A, therefore it should have been a complete institution in agricultural production or in agriculture as such. The minister boasts that cases of salmonella are lower due to stricter examinations, which is not true at all, are being denied by his own statistics. So if we're talking about some minor procedures that have been done in, say, food safety, we haven't done much. A year has passed again we haven't missed much we've done. I will remind you you are also a member of the Committee on Agriculture how many promises we have received before that committee, from the new Hunting Law, from the Agricultural Strategy or the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture, from the new Fisheries Act, we have not seen it at all, it is not in the public debate. I don't know if it's written in the ministry, but for a year, I think it's more than enough time for that kind of thing. And finally, this law prescribes some special criteria. We say we want to please young producers and then say in special criteria, especially if they are concerned with seed production. So, buddy, find me a little O.P.G. who's into seed production. I don't know him. Seed production is almost exclusively done by large companies. Small businesses such as those to be given priority in the country's allocation have been included. So let me remind you once again, small businesses means 30 million kunas of activity, 60 million kunas of traffic up to 50 employees. I don't know any O.P.G.s, a small O.P.G. who has this kind of traffic, this kind of activity, and this number of employees. Then I wonder who this law was written for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68763	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from colleague Roscic Dragica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68764	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, let me say why I believe this law should be passed now and why it should not wait with its adoption. Respecting the fact that it is very important to adopt a national strategy for the development of agriculture, I must stress that we are currently implementing the Rural Development Programme and you yourself said you mentioned the figures of 400 million kunas of unused funds. I remind you of the fact that for the Rural Development Programme that it could be implemented were developed local development strategies in all rural areas or in the area over 90% of the Republic of Croatia. In order to benefit from the Rural Development Programme, it is necessary to put agricultural land into operation, and we, when working on local and development strategies, of course, have analysed the opportunities of the agricultural land we have here and there were no local development strategies that considered that agricultural state land would not be able to function for two, three years. And I therefore believe that it is precisely good and useful for this whole process to be shifted to local self-government, and it is very important that the national strategy sets out those measures and objectives that cannot be contained in the Rural Development Programme, if it follows the objectives set by the European Commission and that we recognise our individualities and specificities and determine those national measures in the long term to predict which they should be addressed. But I certainly don't think that we should wait with the adoption of the Law on Agricultural Land, because every day is indeed a loss for agriculture, for production and for the development of the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68765	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68766	Thank you very much, dear colleague Rostice. So I agree with you that agricultural land should absolutely be used. So it must be in need. The worst part is, it's untapped. But I'll remind you again. And the government of Zoran Milanovic had what you call a bad Agricultural Land Act, but I don't know what you called it, so she managed to assign 16,000 to agricultural land to different entrepreneurs, farmers who worked it. This government, i.e. these two HDZ governments zero, with numbers and letters. Well, now I'm wondering if it's the law or maybe it's the law that's going to go to hand that certain local powers have more maneuvering space so I can assign Đura and Peri, because this Đuro and Pero have helped them, the hand of the menu, the partner economy, etc. which we from Slavonia know very well what it looks like, because there your party is quite in power in very many cities and municipalities. If we're talking about this law that we're bringing blindly without strategy and broader visions, then it's just an ad hoc measure. So we just took a glass of water and threw it on fire, and the fire was still raging. And when we talk about withdrawing funds from the EU, so among them are rural development funds then I will remind you, according to the European Commission, that Croatia has withdrawn three percent of the funds in this period, so for seven years, that is to say. Three percent of my co-worker and co-worker. 13%, now it's a little higher, probably 14% agreed, but that's not our money yet. It's not our money yet until we prove we spent it on purpose. Since the Ministry of Agriculture is just... One million, and unfortunately I'm afraid it won't be the last, I think that much, much greater decommitment threatens us with which the LAGs, or local action groups, have warned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68767	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from colleague Allen Precec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68768	Thank you, Your Honor. Col. Hajdukovic, you were talking about who should have the advantage of getting agricultural land, so here we have stated that young people should have, the OPGs, the domicillin should have priority, the primary agricultural producers. I agree. Even something in this law has been processed. But you know what wasn't processed? How we're going to make it impossible for all those who are still going to get into that group to get agricultural land to punish them. I, from experience, and all of us together in experience know that in this group, they got agricultural land and doctors and public notebooks and some merchants, all of it was. It doesn't matter who did it now. But I think it should simply put punishment in this law for all those who are going to get involved in any way in this group. So, we've made a criterion of who's going to have the advantage of getting agricultural land. But punishing those who, after the tenders, will simply try to get into those groups in the wrong way and manipulations, and it is not their primary activity. And once again, I'm going to mention what you were saying about the strategy. Unfortunately, this strategy was supposed to be the first one. We can't buy seed, and then we can think about buying land. Well, that's probably the other way around. So first we had to make a strategy for the development of agriculture, so we knew what we needed in this country, and then we went into other laws. Here you have actually found the real point of this debate and what should actually be done first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68769	Thank you. Replication response. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68770	You're right, you're a colleague of Prelec, and that's what I was saying that education should be one of the criteria of the country's assignment, because honor to doctors but somehow I don't see that those with, especially those who are of quality, who work at the hospital, who operate, will then deal with agriculture after work. It's totally surreal to me. But okay, maybe some will. I don't know. However, we have this whole other set of problems. Let's just say the rent, that's what you mentioned about the land. So, local self-government units have had agricultural land before, but you have a very interesting colleague. Some units of local self-government have consciously charged debts from entrepreneurs, and some have not. Some did it selectively. I don't want to bring a general court, nor am I here to judge, but I'm afraid some of them didn't do it on purpose. Little ones in a bad way. Why? That's why you're gonna hit some people. And now we're gonna let it happen again. Shall we have a colleague? Well, I think we finally tried to put an end to that sort of thing. A lot of people were subletting this country, so everybody got it, and then he leased it to someone who was actually doing it, which is illegal, I'll remind you. Whoever gets the land in the contest is obliged to process it. And I agree with you that there must be repercussions for those who don't. Also, the country was being assigned you told doctors, lawyers, public records. So I don't believe they were working, but that country was processed. Someone's tractors were on that ground. Whose terms, and why is that now a second question? But should local self-government units then be cops to check it out? They don't have the capacity, and they can't get rid of it this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68771	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure is the replica of my colleague, Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68772	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you said strategic thinking in your presentation. That's a nice word, but that strategy hasn't brought us anything in 20 years. And we need to know that governments and parties have changed and assigned land to Slavonia, and the two of us are from Slavonia, we know what it looks like there. And for 20 years, we have strategy and thinking, and we have everything, but we have nothing. We don't have a rich peasant, we don't have a stable peasant in Slavonia. We all see it's ruined. Who's to blame? Of course, it's everyone who's ruled so far, it's a clear thing, it's clear to everyone. However, if we continue to think strategically about how we would give our friend and acquaintance a country, and to encourage him, do we know that humans were being encouraged by hundreds of hectares, and perhaps they had a hundred throats of cattle. I guess the incentives would be given by some kind of livestock structure, not how much land you have and then take the money and then buy the jeeps, buy something you shouldn't have bought. I fully agree, but let's from today, so strategically here are the two parties agree to make one strategy in advance 20 years as to how to go in which part of the solution to this. Another thing, our citizens should also be strategically buying our goods, our meat, not what happened the other day in Vukovar. We must strategically mature people that we must take our goods and raise our peasants. And so also to make a strategy that through our tourism, which thanks God goes well, raises the sale of our goods. I personally think that this is what we're doing right now, doing this law to go in that particular order, that this order is going to be done. I hope that this current government will make the order and let's do it and you work with the government to make it work for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68773	Thank you. The reply to the replica corresponds to Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68774	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic, I can agree with you in part, but what is the problem of the strategy is neither formal nor informal. There's no strategy. And I agree that some parties are only thinking strategically about how to share land with their friends so we have this law right now and that's why it leaves so many holes. And I agree that we absolutely need to change that. But colleagues and colleagues, when we think about strategies then we must be aware that the strategy does not change with regard to who is in power. We had an example of an education development strategy on which there are now some controversy alleged, but I remember well the process of taking it. The strategy as such is not a law and cannot pass the usual parliamentary debate, cannot be put into amendments etc., but the promoter has given himself a hard time, has spoken with all clubs and all remarks as I remember none of them being rejected which came from the other side of the assembly that had a head and tail, all thank God they had. And then how do our colleagues behave on the other side? They'll be restrained. Well, my colleagues, unfortunately, there's no consensus. When the HDZ calls for a consensus you know what a consensus is, you will blindly support what we say. It's not a consensus. The consensus also requires dialogue. I agree that we should raise awareness of our citizens buying our products, but unfortunately the purchasing power of many of our citizens is such that our products are often not competitors of any product of questionable quality at least coming here, that they must determine according to their finances what they buy. So I think they'd rather buy Croatian meat that they know is fresh than someone in Brazil, ask God how old. So these are all related problems, and for the strategy I say first we all need to agree, not only on the left and right, but also on the middle, but the strategy when it comes to being brought is always true. And we can differ in ways that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68775	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. The next debate is from counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So here we have a law that significantly improves the current state of affairs and the possibility of renting agricultural land as well as concessions and clearly speaks of elements that have so far been a narrow throat like the agency. The agency was indeed a narrow throat and could not absorb all that was necessary and carry out all the tenders as well as enable the lease, we spoke at the very beginning when the law was passed. I was just reviewing a debate that lasted a day and a half on the Law on Agricultural Land where we clearly warned that the law was written in our giant from which one of the couples who was an assistant or deputy minister of agriculture came. The Kuterovac family passed the law and gave it to the SDP to bring it to the partners who were with them. This was also clearly said by the ratio put into the management plan, i.e. in the holding when 60 points were given out of 100 possible to those who would have the best economic plan. And in economic terms, through 14 points, the highest figure was who had the number of employees and who had the number of machines. If you have 100 employees and you have 100 machines or a tractor for land processing, you've got 60 points and no one else can prosper in that competition no matter what the price he offered. It is clear what was in the current law and therefore it is necessary to pass this new law. All those who speak today about the fact that the law is not good and that they are not accepted and that the host population is not represented, I think that the biased, unobstructed, incorrectly attacking, calling and not reading Article 36 in that paragraph, which says that the person in the rank of micro and small enterprises who is at least three years until the publication of a public tender by the owner or owner of cattle, is engaged in livestock production, has at least three years until the publication of the public tender, residence or headquarters or production facility in office on the unit of local self-government. I don't know where you read that the domicile population was neglected when it clearly says in this one. And I'd agree that maybe in this first sentence it's a year and a half, and not three years for those who do production and those youngsters who started doing livestock production certainly don't have three years, maybe they're a year and a half, two years old, here's where I might be wrong about... But that the domicile population is represented, it clearly speaks in this paragraph and describes who it is. In the follow-up everything is absolutely defined who, what through all this is written are clearly positioned things that go in favour of the OPG, which go in favour of micro, small producers, Croatian defenders and the entire population that deals with agricultural production so that I do not now list all the details. I would ask all of you to be more correct in what this law actually brings. The MOST colleagues were loudly announcing that the land would be bought by foreigners. In paragraph 2, Article 2 clearly states who is who and who can obtain agricultural land or buy it. Agricultural land is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, has its special protection. The rightholders of land ownership rights referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may not be foreign, legal, natural or legal persons unless international contracts. What are international contracts? So international contracts are made in this Croatian Parliament, it does not bring them, proposed by the government. They must be public, transparent and ultimately reciprocation of our purchase of Croatian citizens in some countries that make it possible outside can also enable foreigners to buy in our country. Here's what no one will accept, read and speak clearly. Some colleagues whose ministers were in the past and the previous government did not object. Those options have been before. It's not Mr. Bulj, I don't even know Hajdukovic in the last term talked about not being good. So it is clear that it is good when it is supported by all other legal acts and can not be so questionable that someone thinks someone will buy, grab the Croatian country without this Parliament having a way to prevent it. What is best so far, which is maintenance, protection and use of agricultural land where it is clearly specified what with the land being left to do, what with private purpose, how to bring it in, how to control and how to monitor it so as not to be abandoned, devalued, so as not to reduce the possibility of exploiting it in agricultural production in order to clear through these articles of the laws relating to the maintenance, protection, use of agricultural land come to the function of agricultural production of capacities and quantities which are at European levels, given the incentive funds used. I believe that such a law is certainly good and excellent against the one that has been so far, which allowed only great ones to be those who are already in this what I said 60 points for the economic plan were in priority and were clearly potentiated by the big ones. Because the law, as I was then in the debate which, here, lasted one and a half days, when we assured that the law cannot be written in the largest company in Croatia in order to please only those who actually gave it. This law is for the little ones, this law for the domicile population is ideal, this law is for honest, real and honest farmers as well as micro and small certainly that will contribute to the progress, improvement and achievement of the goals they have set in their programme. And I want to make it clear that these objections I've heard today have no justifications because the legal articles are quite different. If someone has guessed someone, there are also clearly Croatian institutions that need to verify, sanction and punish them. That's what the State's Attorney's office does, which has given one's consent many times, while others don't. He has often been involved in procedures and unfairly evaluating or suggesting the appearance of the lease or concession of individual entities that competed. I was also able to intervene and distribute with the chief state attorney so that it is possible to get so explicitly clearly involved in procedures, that you determine even the price of what land should be. With what right? When there are institutions of independent judicial assessors, there is a tax administration on the territory on which the land is being held, a tender is being opened. There are a number of parameters to measure how much rent it should be or sell if it is, it is such a type or concession, lease or sale. Many times we interfered unnecessarily and made suggestions that were not well-intentioned, so I think the best manager is the one who in the field of the local self-government unit, the head of the municipality, the municipal council, they are the standards and criteria that come to the choices people trust or challenge how wrong they will be in these things as well as in all other things. They will not certainly gain confidence in the future of citizens if they are biasedly sharing land and it is best that they deal with it because they know best what the economy, what the craft, what the micro, what a small entrepreneur who deals with agricultural production, how much he contributes to the environment, how many people he employs, and no one can deceive him. These are parameters that are clearly defined in this law and I believe that local units will quickly, efficiently and quality them up because of the needs of their citizens who want to allow them to live richly and happily through agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68777	Thank you. At Djakic's presentation, we have 7 replicas. The first replica is from counterpart Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68778	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djakić, you mention the Kuterovac family in the context of Agrokor, and somehow you forget Agrokor's child in your government, right now when it all fell apart and who knows who wrote the Lex Agrokor when you already mention the writing of the law. I'll tell you what my opinion is why this law goes at all except naturally favouring HDZ sponsors. We need this law to justify the fact of work so far. You haven't assigned two years or squares of the country, and now you need the law to say that it wasn't right for you to be able to share it. But let's be realistic. What you're saying is that he's significantly improving the situation, that's not true. It improves so much that you will assign this law a little more than 0 squares of state agricultural land, and you are as aware as here everyone present that this law should and must go into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68779	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please welcome fellow Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tomic, I'd be glad you could be right. But you didn't again, you missed again and wrong again. I have done 7 press conferences in the County of Viritarian-Podravka area on abandoned agricultural land of 500, 700 or 900 hectares and in... and in Čadjavica, both in Voćin and in Špisić Bukovica area. That's what your law passed. I still have pictures of that time today. There's also footage of television. We spoke clearly of the fact that there was an unhappiness, a narrow throat, a misunderstanding. What you're saying is that you gave up the land, that you solved, is actually a misery against all the demands that existed, beyond the needs that were. In this space and the time until this law was passed all that was possible, it was given to serve in order to function as soon as possible and not to suffer and harden the land. It's been given, but we're not showing it to you, it's been given to serve people in contractual form that they're in uninterrupted possessions with the confirmations of the municipal chiefs and city commissioners to bring in the purpose of everything you've left. Three, four years of weed had grown and had to be put into operation as soon as possible so that it wouldn't continue to fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68781	Thank you. The next replica is from a colleague of Allen Precec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68782	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djakic, you've been talking about a lot of magic. I agree that agriculture really had irregularities, that miracle of irregularities, and especially in the incentive system. Many people were encouraged not to. They have nothing to do with agriculture. But me, you probably agree that we should just put an end to it. I have a proposal, and I read it in the paper recently. Namely, the Saudi king shut down 350 shakes, state officials, I don't know what they were, 350 shut them down and said, "Lord, you took advantage of the state, you stole, you took your property and you have to pay back $100 billion." I don't know if you read that, it was in the paper? You have to pay back 100 billion. I think we should overwrite that license. We would probably get it from Saudi Arabia and we would lock up the same ones who benefited from it without being allowed to. I think all our citizens would take it very well. Then we would have faith in politics, in laws and all that we should prevent. We don't, and we should. So now tell Mr. Djakic, would you agree with such a license and could we get into such a thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68783	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68784	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, you've noticed well. Yes, I am in favour of applying that licence in Croatia as well. I am for it when the mayors of the municipality asked me what to do with those who do not pay, hand them over to the State's Attorney's office to pursue them because the State's Attorney's office has given consent to the contracts they signed. They all paid for it. As soon as the U.S. Attorney's office called, they either paid for it or they had a sit-down. There's no one who ran away from paying. But with who would have to be fulfilled, they will no longer have priority under this law. Remember, you're out of this law. They've made a mistake, and I can't be at the competition anymore. So you didn't pay, you can't get the land anymore. That's clearly what it says here. I agree with that. Likewise, those who prepared this former law of yours, and it was the spouses who managed its adoption and the sequences that were implemented in its articles, clearly favored those who were the greatest. And that's what you saw. Through the whole procedure, it was experienced and seen, and you can't get away from it. A colleague named Tomic lists sponsors. So don't let me open up a bunch of your sponsors. I once asked the Jarnjaks for those two companies that were one for your ministries, and the others for the state-owned companies as they financed. He said, "Bracek, where are you pushing your nose?" So I stopped. But I haven't forgotten. I still have the addresses, the OIB and everything. But they're out, but it doesn't matter. They ran away like, let them escape. What happened at certain times never gets old.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68785	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, I will only start with information, although ignorance does not justify it, if you have knowledge of some criminal acts, you are obliged to report them. So please do your civic duty. But what I want to ask you is, when you're talking about where this law is written present, valid etc. That's what my colleague Tomic already told you. And where was Lex Agrokor written? Who wrote it? We don't know that yet. What we know for sure is that it wasn't written in the government. It's the only thing we know for sure. When you talk about the protection of the domicile population and small enterprises, both medium and small enterprises, which will take precedence over the competition, so I will remind you only of a case from the municipality of Sopje in which there are miracles in the government of HDZ which is in the County of Virovitica-Podravska from which you are in which a domicillal company in Istria but the domicillal company received land over many, many farmers who live and work, live on the land from which they came from Sopje. Is that the HDZ model? Well, it probably is. Probably, I can't say, but that someone from the Istrian company has a membership card with a number of xy, so that's why he had the advantage. How will you manage the land as you master public finances? Here, I'll read you the headlines of a newspaper. He says, "Tolusic sees no problem in the failed companies and debts of the Lucic family, he has granted them another million euros in support. The company "Tofrado" store, Lucic's son Tomislav, has so far not dealt with agriculture, and has now received 7.4m kuna of state support. And who guarantees that tomorrow some company without a single throat that has never dealt with agriculture, say from Istria, will not report back to Sopia and win back all the land. If you run finance like this, how are you going to land?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68787	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68788	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Hajdukovic, you didn't convince me that the domicile population under this law has no priority first because you were really caught when I read you article 36a. You probably don't have anything to say under that point. As for Sopja, Sopja municipality and the land enjoyed by the former Senkovac farm, I know a lot about it. Yeah, the bankruptcy company came forward, tried to buy that company, didn't pay off within that deadline, and it ran out of everything and without one or the other. In the next period, someone third also tried to recover it. He hasn't even put in office today. And now something's going on, thank God. We hope that it will be operational and that it will have sufficient number of hectares of land to continue production. All these attempts were an opportunity through the law to come from Istria to Slavonia, Dalmatia to come to Slavonia or Slavonia to come to another part of the western Slavonia, say to Novska or what I know in Kutina or where they already said where the M-SAN group or PIK Orahovica competed for land. These were the possibilities of the former law, and you are now honoring me. But you've passed it by law, so I've been criticizing it all along, and now you're implementing those things that you've actually made possible for us. It's not that Dalmatia defended Slavonia or Slavonia Dalmatia. That is, he worked the countries of Istria in Slavonia and Dalmatia in Slavonia, from Slavonia in what I know on Savi. I mean for no reason. I mean, who can train regional firms to be, and the locals don't have enough for themselves. These are the problems that have been through this law. And I'll agree that you must have missed the theme of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68789	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68790	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Djakic, I have to admit that I'm really worried after your debate, given that I'm much younger than you, and I happen to forget things, see what's waiting for me when I come to your age, where I'm going to forget a lot of things like you forgot. You're talking about giants, you're talking about Agrokor. Right? Kreso Kuterovac worked in Agrokor, and you did not say that Kresso Kuterovac was a government secretary who was Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and Jadranka Kosor. Right? I don't think Cresso Kuterovac is exactly the bad guy and I don't think he's the one who made the law that Jakovina made. We think that law was bad, we've said it a hundred times that Jakovina was a bad minister. But this isn't good here either. You say young people are the best of this law. No, it's not! There are young people who have economies, but there is also the possibility of taking it away from them, losing to the competitions of those economies that work. You know how the earth used to be divided? Neither have we since yesterday. There was a time when some powerful men came and here's one employer where I worked told him here's 200 ha of land. So you forget who ruled Croatia back then. But let's throw it all aside, my people. Let's throw it all aside, let's look at the well-being of Croatian agriculture that's been destroyed. Our villages have been destroyed, our houses have collapsed on their own. Thousands and thousands of houses are for sale insignificant. People went to Ireland. There's no one left to work in agriculture. And I'm sorry I didn't wear the van today that I was sitting in the tractor yesterday, so you can see what a peasant looks like when he works. Unfortunately, many who talk about it and make laws have no idea, tailoring to that poor man who suffers and suffers there. You should come and see how a man suffers in the country and how much art it takes to survive. So I'm telling you that when you forgot everything, you probably forgot that you were born in the country and that you came from the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68791	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68792	Thank you very much. I work vineyards too, 15,000 cane, and that's not my problem. But I have a problem with how you got the land. That's probably a better question. Perhaps you're after your grandmother and uncle, because you've been in such an opportunity, in such a coalition. It's a question of all the questions. Because it always happens that whose house burns down that fire, so that's a very wrinkling question and you're dragging me by my tongue. And really Kuterevic and his wife so implemented the law, that certain visible traces were also e-mailing the legal proposal when it was made. And one of the colleagues who defected to the other party and even brought it, brought it to see how sherrals, correcting and finishing. I had it on my desk. I've got it somewhere in the closet right now. To see how transparent it was, how pathetic it was. Narcotics that you're defending today. Why are you defending him? Why are you defending something that's wrong? With what right? Since you are not ashamed to defend such a family relationship of the firm in the adoption of laws, proposals and implementation that will be in the articles of the law. Well, these 60 points I was telling you about, why don't you mention them? Well, it's in that bush lying a rabbit. It's one of the important factors that has been given to the great and the Agror and the Žita and all those who have been great and great and the small have been destroyed. The little ones will be their sub-operatives, or they will be handcuffed, and they will marry them to the end. That was the goal. I don't know why we argue about it, something that's good and what's wrong. You said it yourself, we're going with this. Let's do a job and make it good for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68793	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68794	In violation of article 238, my colleague Djakic, I did not get state land because I do not have one square metre at all. I'm doing my own private farm and my neighbors. So you've got it all wrong for the public, and I'm not sure you've been involved in any kind of aid to get somebody a state plot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68795	Okay. The Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. We're moving on. The next replica, please, is the next replica from counterpart Lucić Franje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68796	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will not be returning to the past now, but it is evident that just the old Agricultural Land Act has allowed the country to get just about all those who have bought large combinations that have come into difficulty and bought these companies, and at the same time got the country. It was the old law that made it impossible for the OPGs, micro and small enterprises to come into possession of agricultural land. And today when we have this law that just says the opposite, the opposition on the other side again says something that isn't. What bothers me especially in this law, and I don't think it's good, and since I'm now and I'm going to talk about it more, it's exactly a score, or where it's been said that a young farmer has to have a production based in his place for three years. It's something that's long. Many farmers, the new farmers who came forward on the 4.1.1 measures, 4.1.2. they will not be able to run for land because the new law makes it impossible for them to do so. These same people either in Požega-Slavonska, Brod-Posavia, any other county, and many are smiling because they think it's of private interest, so let's do it. I lobby for everyone, for all those young people who want to work, who want to stay in Croatia and who want to do agriculture. So it's not a sin, it's no shame. It's a shame not to work and it's a shame to deal with something illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68797	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Lucic, yes. Today, as we can see, those who were State Secretarys used to talk about how something was right, something was wrong, and they didn't seem to get any better. I think, however, through this law, the possibilities are defined to commit those who do not have enough livestock to guarantee their profits in the future, that they will guarantee to achieve the number of throats in their production and thus gain land. I believe that these young people who are, have now come to the processing and that land that was abandoned and who got to keep it, so they'll also have a priority on the lease. And I hope that through that will be solved and your problem mentioned. However, I believe that all of these items set out in Article 36 clearly show how land can be acquired and who can acquire it, which are natural persons, which are, in fact, small and medium-sized enterprises. A micro and small one, and it'll satisfy everyone's needs. And the rules that the minister will definitely regulate further lease, concession and land sales, will clearly state which direction we are going and hope everyone will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68799	Thank you. The last replica is a replica from counterpart Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68800	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Djakić, here I would just a little comment on your comment on our initiative that, in fact, this legislative proposal does not define the possibility that foreign citizens can become owners of foreign land, foreign companies as well. Actually, what is it? You mentioned it if it was defined by an international contract. And you assume that this international contract must come to this home. That's it. Then you slept through one part, one important international contract that was for accession when Croatia joined the European Union where we imposed our obligation. We too will be in a situation where a Hungarian citizen can and with full right come to Croatia, buy land. I'm not saying, the minister looked back at state land. However, we are talking about both the private one and the one owned by the company. And that land they can buy, while our citizen will have no such opportunity because Hungary has actually disabled that by one state procedure. Now, what's it gonna be? We don't know. It may take longer, shorter, but we can see that it's not only Hungary. Other countries are doing the same to limit. And we can talk about finding a model. Let's look for a model, so let's see what it is. The more countries propose a certain type of restrictions, the more the European Commission will surely have more understanding. But if our position here is going to be to listen to how it's arranged and that without it we can't pass and that in 2020 or 2023 it's all going to happen, then I don't think we've joined the country as one strategic resource in the right way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68801	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I believe your fear is sincere and your concern is sincere, including mine. I believe that it is certainly not possible to buy in Croatia and transfer property just as someone comes to mind, especially to foreign citizens. I think there is also a decision on the reciprocity of the purchase of Croats in other countries, and so from these countries around that value can be bought by the country. I think it's an Usus that's been defined by international contracts and that's how it works so far. Because if it wasn't like that,... There is, reciprocity exists. [[You can't hear it.]] That's what you forgot to say. That's what you deliberately avoid saying, because that's what you protect from actually a mass phenomenon. And I think that this way we clearly protect our relations with those who would buy both Croatian land and who would become owners in the future. I hope we understand each other and that we want to prevent the possibility of mass purchase of land in Croatia. But reciprocally, as much as ours buys out, so could strangers buy in our house. That's how it's defined.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68803	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from my colleague Roscice, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68804	Thank you, Mr. President. You also mentioned the other members of the opposition to the terms of the championship, or advantage when someone appears in the competition. And here we've heard that the minister lacks expertise in this law, and I'd just say that people who impute it don't lack the profession, but some lack the practice. And exactly what we're doing here is telling us to study the terrain and look at the state of it. We need to be aware that a much higher percentage of people without leaving high school are among farmers and that it is very important that we encourage people to deal with this and I think that it is certainly not a bad condition that the medium professional prepares from agriculture, food technologies and the like that that gives priority when renting state agricultural land. Later, I will also give some examples in my individual discussion of how little education is available to farmers in the rural area and how it is inaccessible and it is up to us in general to help them to be educated. And there's no problem at all whether or not they want to, and the thing is that we need to give them opportunities. And I would just point out that food is specific, that they don't like to travel and I think it's much more delicious food than our under quotes of an illiterate peasant than food from a doctor, an agronomist who travels for days from the EU to us. Because as we know our needs are mostly covered by imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68805	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68806	Thank you very much. Well, fellow dear yes, it is clearly defined that at least the middle expert prepares the one that in these competitions will also be valued at the lease and acquisition of land. But no one makes it impossible for him to make a contribution to the competition and value of his high professional equipment in agriculture. The fact is that more and more young farmers are from a school of agricultural or economic technicians who are starting to deal with agriculture. It's also veterinary and all other professions in that position. They are older and without high school, and they did well in agricultural production. But here are the educations and all that is needed and the school is the one that brings land processing, better yields, which agrotechnical conditions also teaches and enables the acquisition of knowledge that will contribute to the best production and quality and quantity. I believe that through this law those who criticise him are malicious, that they are tendant in terms of finding those objections that don't really stand because it's all covered and so is this segment that you were talking about at least medium professional education that will be a priority in getting land. Likewise, the minister said, and everything else speaks of these young people having something to share with this land to start with their agricultural households or to start with their micro and small businesses that are engaged in agricultural production.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68807	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is a debate from counterpart Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am sorry that in the previous replica of Mr. Hajdukovic, who was supposed to answer to Mr. Djakic, he told me that you did not warn him. So let me just say two, three words about what he was saying. So, a man who doesn't know that Tofrado had 250 people that I own. Yeah, when she got into trouble in 2008, she had 200 people. That out of 200 people in three companies today, 150 people are working, that all obligations towards workers, wages, contributions, pension, health, severance are met. That the suppliers are all settled, that one bank is resolved, and the other is in the final conversation. Dear colleagues and colleagues of this word by Mr. Hajdukovic, and his principal mentor is Drago Hedl, who writes lies about me, about my family, about companies as well as about two days ago, and I will stand. The company that paid a million and 200 thousand kuna a month, electricity 200,000, fuel 150 000, etc. etc. Enough about it. I've never apologized before, I won't be in the future, and I'm proud of everything I've done so far, and I'm responsible for all the actions I've done and what I'm going to do in the future. And that is why today I am heartily defending this Law on Agricultural Land, which I will also speak honestly about and where I will also show my differences. I think and I'm sure I have absolutely the right to do that. I will also not talk about the past law when I was chairman of the Committee on Agriculture during the SDP where I prayed for certain concessions in this law that we are talking about today, but it is past time. This law is just saying, it's exclusively saying that this is a law that is not only to help someone, but to support that very OPG, this micro-enterprise, this small company. Here, colleagues and colleagues compare what small businesses are, which are micros, which are OPGs. Well, we know that. Why did these same OPGs, micro-enterprises when this law was so good just not exercise their right to have enough land for that production they've been identified for? Well, they just couldn't for this reason that I talked about earlier, because they couldn't come because the law was written for big systems. To be clear, I've never been against large systems. Yes, of course. Large systems today are those producers that export huge quantities of food, cattle and where we can see through our statistical indicators exactly how much Croatia is exporting today and how much food imports. Well, we are witnessing gentlemen that in the past year, around 2 and a half billion euros have imported food. What are we talking about? Will this small OPG, a micro-entrepreneur, be able to produce so much food that Croatia can export? Well, he won't. But at the same time, he needs to be given space in every way that a man can produce, that he can feed his family. I come from Požega-Slavon County, I remember that many farmers were just at small, micro-economics through their stables, through their pigs fed the family, educated the children and were proud of what they were doing and raised the children to be independent. Just one policy without blaming the SDPs or HDZ, but we didn't run a good agricultural policy. We've come into a position that we don't have such micro or small O.P.G.s today, and that's why our villages are loose today, and that's why people are leaving us. Today, and we are aware that over the past time, we have spent billions of kunas through various governments on agriculture without today's signs of improvement being visible. Who's to blame? So now we're looking for the guilty? Well, it's been a while. We have to say today that this law allows this small OPG tomorrow to win the country and by the basis of the competition, that it will also get that micro-enterprise, but at the same time the gentlemen will also get this small entrepreneur who employs a significant number of people who make significant total incomes and who deserves also to participate in the distribution of the country especially when it comes to 25 years. On the one hand, I am concerned that in 2020 we are in a position for the country to be able to buy foreign citizens. If we fail to meet the obligations and needs of the OPG, small and micro-enterprises by 2020, then we will be in big trouble. That's why, just under this law, we have to enable all those OPGs who haven't been able to resolve their status so far, and they're not based on a law that wasn't good, right now they have to do it. And all those who have livestock production without enough land at the same time. What I am particularly interested in and concerned about in my County of Požega-Slavonia, Brodo-Posavia, and by talking to a few people who have just run their economies for measures 4.1.1.1., 4.1.2. Today I am saying that I am lobbying for everyone and that I am a lobbyist, a great lobbyist from my county, from other counties, from those who are fighting for the prosperity of economic development at all levels. And I don't see who the HDZ is, who the SDP is, and I'm proud of it. Well, you can't have a man in a new law that was written to measure 4.1.1 a few months ago doing a year or a half of livestock production, in a new law you simply don't allow him to come into possession of that same country. I ask you, gentlemen and Mr. Hajdukovic, that I also lobby for my son, he did not win, he was based on an economic project and programme, based on 88 points, entitled to receive support from the European funds of 15 million kuna. But, gentlemen, another 18 million kuna has to raise the loan, get in debt, pawn all its assets. So who forbids you to run for office yourself and to advocate your own property precisely for the future that is questionable? It's risk one. Anyone who wasn't an entrepreneur of gentlemen by not insulting anyone, it's a risk, and maybe he doesn't even know what kind of business he's getting into. I don't know if Mr. Hajdukovic ever gave someone a personal income, or if you were solely in your own party until now only in charge of getting your salary that you either earned or didn't earn. Try hiring, one, two, five, not to mention 200, 250, or I don't know how many people. Try to solve their problems when you get into difficulties, etc. I therefore consider and appeal to the ministry, to the secretary of state, to the minister to look at this law as much as possible at achieving the rights of the OPG, micro and small enterprises. Croatia needs production. Croatia only has a future in production by producing exactly this kind of production where we produce food, we load cattle, or we sell cattle in any way, we export and thus make income, we make profits. So why is it so strong that someone gets it all the time? Well, gentlemen, if anyone's comfortable, you have the institutions of this country, please report it. It's not good that we've created this kind of opposition based on this new law, and at the same time we don't respond to spoken words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68809	Thank you. We have five replicas. The first replica is from a colleague named Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68810	Comrade Lucić, in your debate, you have a little confused the concepts of micro-economics and micro-enterprises. Although the truth was that while there were these micro holdings there were bodies for the tov, there were milk, homemade cheese and everything, and today all the bodies for this are almost imported from all over Europe. It's already very hard to find. But as a result of the current laws on availability, these economies are gone and this possibility of a quality baby buffet that we once had that we can't even dream about anymore because genetics has changed significantly. Your actions or your misdeeds are not the place for us to discuss. That's what the paper said. But whether it is true or not, there are institutions that will deal with it. That's what you know best, and I don't think that's the place to discuss it here in Parliament. But all the burden is thrown at the past law. We think the past law was bad. I mentioned the example of PPK Orahovica who took land in Lipovljani and that the minister did it badly. But very little divided the land at that time, because it was obviously so badly done that it couldn't liven up. I am more concerned by those who were before the laws that they were bad regardless of who was involved, and even some ministers who were also in the HSS, but they had agricultural land and were creating economies. And we have a significant number of quality economies with quality production resources. And what we're saying, we're not saying that this law is completely bad, but we're just pointing to some little things that need to be changed so that this law doesn't throw away those OPGs and those people who live in the country and keep the village from throwing them away. Not about the whole bad law. I don't know who understood it that way and why you understood it that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68811	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68812	Well, I'm not gonna paralyze my colleague, but I'll tell you one thing. When I spoke of great achievements, so in the incentives and in total, what agriculture received over four and a half billion, you and your HSS had participated in the previous authorities. You stood up for that very program that you got the money, and you didn't. I wasn't talking about something that wasn't true today. I'm saying don't say that in this new law they won't have an advantage. It is the OPGs, micro, small entrepreneurs, businesses or anyone and small entrepreneurs as well. That's exactly what I'm talking about is that this law allows these entrepreneurs to come into possession of the country, and you keep saying this is a law for the big ones, and there's no sign of a big one here. And today some company owners say that this law is not good either. They don't see themselves here either. And this law is really talking about small ones, and I'm sure through this vision and through these contests we're about to provide teams that have failed in the past time to exercise their rights and let's first get exactly the O.P.G.'s, so micro, so small or vice versa. But then, this small significant number of people are employed and he must participate in it. But I'm telling you one more time. I'm worried about those who have to be in charge, who have to pawn their assets go into production. They're not looking for land first. They'll get 100, 200, 500 thousand pieces of cattle, and they don't know if they'll get the land at the same time because it's three years old that they have to deal with it. And individuals are also engaged in Požeško, and in Brod-Posavina County for a year, two years. Three years is too long, I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68813	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from fellow Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68814	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad to hear you're talking about micro, macro and OPG and small businesses. It's been a long time for me to figure it out. Then we'd have Slavonia full already. They wouldn't be empty if they said yes, he mentioned a colleague of the calf a thousand of some small O.P.G.s per ten calves, that's 10 grand. A hundred pigs out of 100 houses is 10,000 houses. It's all one farm. That's what we used to have in a small village. We lost that today. Not to mention birthright. And this just before you said about the risk, that's exactly what we're talking about here, and we didn't actually do anything, we didn't see anything in particular. There are few of us who have taken out our money in life and put in some investment and tried to fertilize and fight in the market. It's a very important thing. We must once know here in the Parliament and in Croatia, give a chance to people who work, and we politicians where I am now, even though I've never dealt with it we just have to give support to these people and watch who are capable and honest people and not like that regardless of which party they were from, I would give everything to people who are capable. Therefore, we need to reduce a little populistism, try to agree on both parties, and the largest and least parties and go once into a strategy that will indeed bring priority in 10 years and strengthen our villages and be rich. We have to make a rich little man in the country, and that's what a strategy should be, because we don't have as big a country as we can do one Australia, one Russia and not say countries that have agriculture or America where we can't compete. But our healthy country, which we have, thank God close to Europe, surely we can place it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68815	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68816	I agree with my colleague, Micic. Today, many people are still speaking here in this House for the convenience of this, the favor of this, the favor of that. However, today every young entrepreneur, especially one who is encouraged in various ways up to 40 years, must indeed take one great responsibility. Says you got it. What did he get? He only got one part of the support, and the other part of the support must be debted as I said and pawned his entire assets. So who is it, would one of us be defending to participate in the competition is it called 4.1.1, 4.1.2, or otherwise? No one was defending us. Nobody's even trying to stop us from hiring one man, another, five, ten people, and being back here in this House, that's what nobody's defending us. Here you go, gentlemen, show your skill in business and responsibility, not on the basis of someone who writes lies for a certain man and is trusted. I'm not afraid of anyone, because I know what I've been doing and what I'm doing. And I'm proud of what I did. But let's not judge young people before they start their business and before they take responsibility for Croatian production, and that they are those entrepreneurs who will produce, who will export, we condemn them in advance and declare malts not criminals and that is our rhetoric daily here in this Croatian Assembly. I respect all those people who do science, who do any kind of science, but I respect those who know how to master, I respect those who know how to make three out of the kuna. And that's why you're all allowed to be entrepreneurs, farmers and parliamentary representatives. Here you go, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68817	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from fellow Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68818	Thank you very much. Agent, you're saying I support the law, and I'm going to defend the law, it's your legitimate right. Are you in agreement with Article 2 that foreign legal and natural persons can become owners of our land since 2020 so that an example of a Hungarian citizen can be purchased by a natural legal person in Slavonia or wherever he wants to be a farmer, and a Croatian citizen cannot be a legal and natural person in Hungary? Are you okay with that? I agree, you're obviously in agreement if that's not what the slow minister isn't talking about, the secretary doesn't talk about it. But the public should be told that the village was deliberately emptied by targeted policies, that the measures were not used to remain an empty village and now simply allowed to be emptied, to buy the foreigners what was left. So the Ministry of Agriculture did not create agricultural conditions and was not a protector of farmers, but was a freighter of farmers and now of course we have a number of farmers who earn their capital in Ireland, Germany or do not know where. And the fact is that the support they've been given, they're huge... made instead of farms, made shops, apartments by the sea and the coast, and was not invested in agriculture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The weeds are growing. We didn't protect an ordinary little man, that's a fact. I do agriculture for my family, and I'm going to stay here for the rest of my life, and that's why I call on young people to stay. But I ask you all together, all together, to amend this article 2. The amendment has been submitted, and we expect you to be sovereigns, not as before, to be servants of other officials of Brussels. It is time to protect the Croatian village, peasants and agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68819	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68820	A fellow Bull, of course, in law, I said, and I disagree with certain things. But I would not say that other citizens have such rights and that they will come to buy land in Croatia just like that. We are witnessing that by entering the European Union, Croatia is the basis of negotiations and what we must achieve as well as other countries that foreign citizens will also have the right to purchase land in Croatia today and tomorrow. It's not just Croatia. And these are other European countries. But I'm sure that both this government and the Ministry of Agriculture and that we're just going to fight for a long time not to come, because I'm sure by the very foundation of this law in the short time period of time, we're going to have these people today who say they don't have enough land, and if we do, then we're going to settle their obligations for sure. What I didn't say specifically, and this is the area that Djakic was talking about. We may have passed a little here and in the law of too strict a law. I would also change it there if it were those agricultural areas, and we have thousands of acres in as short a time period as possible, but with as little money as possible for the one who will rent that land, we bring that land to the point of being agricultural land. There too, I agree with you, should make certain changes. But I'm not afraid that the foreigners will be able to buy our land because as we can see when we meet the obligations of our OPGs, our micro-enterprises, our small countries won't stay long. And this stranger won't come in and buy a chicaret and deal with it. We are going to make this very law allow our entrepreneur to disembark and obtain agricultural land. And when the time comes for sale, the land will be no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68821	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68822	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow, I think it's very interesting that it's precisely in this law when we know that despite the use of common agricultural policy funds and investing millions of European funds in agriculture, I agree that they should be used more and better, that we have managed to agree in the accession contract that we have a three-year moratorium for selling the country to foreigners and that it can be another three years. And it is very strange to try to impute that this law contributes to the sale of land to foreigners, when this law is just talking about domicileness, when this law gives priority to the OPGs that are related to the OIB of natural persons, who are related to the address, of course there have been comments from the field that should also be given priority to micro and small enterprises but in this case it requires 3 years of experience and work. It is very interesting at all what such a thing is being debated because I think that if this law does not help, neither of us will have arguments why not sell it or why not give it to foreigners, because we will not have arguments if we have unprocessed agricultural land on our surface unless they have an interest in it by the OPGs, small and micro-enterprises, that we do not give it to foreigners because unprocessed land as we have defined the same in the law, it poses a danger to neighbouring land and I, since I come from Split-Dalmatia County. Since we've had some fires this year, and in the past, it's been burning twice past my family's house, I know what it means to be dangerously unprocessed agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68823	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68824	My colleagues, this very law, that, as you said, we don't need to be afraid, the goal is to do it domestically in our units of local self-government, regional self-government to achieve the benefit of those people who don't have a country. We don't need to be afraid of strangers either, but we still have plenty of time to settle our relations inside agricultural land. True, years pass quickly, but everything depends on us, how and how we will speedily do it. By passing this law, I believe that we are already in one process of realisation, preparation, and when we bring all these legal frameworks that we have to have in order to pass this law, units of local self-government will thus far also develop a strategy for the availability of agricultural land and I am sure that in one quick way we will make it possible for those people who do not have the country to get it. But at the same time, I'm also warning you that we don't have millions of acres and that we could sell it to strangers tomorrow, neither that stranger will be able to buy land before this domicillin gives his wish. So let's be patient, we've passed this law now, let's help the joint forces and the ministry exactly what my colleague Bulj was saying, so if that's exactly what he's saying and he thinks he's right, let's change things together. I am also sure that during a certain period of time there will be amendments and amendments to the law, no law has yet been written, long I have been here in this Parliament without amendments and additions at the same time. It will be safe in this as well, but let's just as a concept of what's recognizable and in due course if what needs to be changed. Here's my proposal, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68825	Thank you. And the last replica is a replica from fellow Highdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68826	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Lucic, here's when you've already referred so much to me in your debate, it's not my turn not to refer to you for some things I didn't want to do. So I read the article, I can't get into the truth or the truth, I know the work of that journalist, and I'm inclined to believe him. But here we go. So, first of all, when you speak, I also admire all entrepreneurs, honest people who pay taxes, pay their obligations and pay their workers. I was an employer, I paid the wages, there was no kuna behind me, and neither was there a tax debt nor a debt to the suppliers. On the other hand, I would very much like to be an entrepreneur, a colleague of Lucic if he were to deal with state-owned companies and then remain in their debt of 15 million kunas, as it is said that you are with the Croatian Forests. I would also very much like to be an entrepreneur and remain in the IRS' debt to millions of kunas as it says you did. I would also like to be an entrepreneur and get incentives for agriculture and that my company is registered for machine and hand-processing metals, manufacturing metal products, processing and changing metals, producing products from wire, loops, chains and springs. So an entrepreneur, a colleague, can be anyone. It's about entrepreneurship. As far as this law is concerned, I think I've said enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68827	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68828	Well, buddy, I'm not going to pollemize here at all now because I can see that you don't know, that you trust and read the articles that have been ordered, which have been paid, I'm only telling you once more. I'm proud of everything I've done, and you, sir, read the contest that's been published. No one has ever allowed anyone to register their company for agriculture as permitted by law, Mr. Dear, and read the days exactly for which Tofrado Store is registered. And don't fool people here because I'm telling the truth, I'm saying the truth about everything I said, and based on it all, the company got a contest, with strict conditions, with micro-examinations and not telling everything else what they did and what the law ordered them to do. So, don't lie, don't deceive, because you don't know what the Croatian forests are or what the deal is, where the properties were offered in the same amount where they didn't accept it, you have Mr. Felak who was a member of the administration so ask him and I'm responsible for saying that it was and I won't be sure to refer to you because you're an entrepreneur who was born yesterday and has no idea what someone's paid for it, and I'm sure that if you know how to do as you know how to talk, you can choose and show it on an economic basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68829	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68830	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Article 238 was injured, so I think my colleague Lucic earned a warning because I didn't go to him like this, I read what's in the paper, I read what's in the court register. I can't get into the metrics but it's the fact that he's a member of the administration that you've been making a deal with from the same party. If I were a member of such a party, if I could work with state firms, I'd make a great entrepreneur. That's how anyone can show up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68831	Okay. Thank you, you've all had such a bit of a detour on the subject, but here I am now going to be inherited to say so to the second vice president of the Parliament, so we'll see how he's going to lead it. We're gonna skip this, and we're gonna move on to an individual debate. Next in an individual debate is a colleague of Martha Luc-Polanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68832	Thank you. The introduction of the Law on Agricultural Land states that the objectives of this law are, above all, to settle the situation on the ground, smaller administrations, the development of agriculture and the promotion of young people to stay in the country and to deal with agriculture. However, I must point out again, as I did during the replication, when you look a little bit better at this proposal of the Agricultural Land Act, you see that this is nothing new. That we don't pass anything by this law that we haven't had since now from the legal institutes and legal solutions, that this is kind of a prescribed 2008 law. Well, as we prescribed, the good thing about 2008 is that we copied some things that are very dubious today. So here we have again, with this law, we are now re-negotiating the issue of private ownership and the lending of private property. So that's the famous art. 14. Namely in the 2008 Law. 14th was abolished by a decision taken in 2009. The number of constitutional decisions is 763 and it clearly states that private property cannot be restricted in a way that restricts the right of the owners and that they are taking possession of land, while there are certain conditions. So, in order for us to get into private property at all and to be able to encourage agricultural production, we have to put into operation the entire state country, and we know that today it is not, that there are a large number of particles and a large amount of land that is unprocessed and not yet leased. Furthermore, we also limit private owners to this Article 14 again where we lend land to them, and we do not give them the possibility of complaining or objecting to it. We state here that those private property, which are inaccessible or unknown, and to protect the environment, health, environment, people and health that we can take their land, or the state to rent it for up to 10 years. So I ask you, and what will happen, in order for this unknown or inaccessible owner to report within those 10 years. And on the other hand, we're from Art. 17. We regulate the construction land that is used for agricultural purposes, to allow it to be contracted, that if during the lease it would appear, or if the works of construction were produced during the lease, in which case we could terminate the lease. So I think that we still, this article didn't come up with a quality solution to protect private property. It is still a harsh violation of constitutional law, and still, you only look at it, so the Constitutional Court has pointed out to us, that if there is any general interest to limit the real property, that it must be proven for each individual case. We now, in a concrete law, avoid it in a way that states that private land, that unknown and inaccessible owner, will be taken, in case people are at risk, the environment or the ground. It's a general threat. For this threat, the state must always act, not just in the case of an inaccessible and unknown owner. Therefore, I believe that this is not an appropriate way to manage private land. Then look at the comparison, meaning the private owner who does not process and does not apply agrotechnical measures on his land, he will receive a fine from the competent inspector. And the owner, who we do not know by which criteria unreachable or unknown, will be taken away from him and leased to others. So, that's something that's not well solved by this article either. 14th, and we believe that this should be considered further, and we should see how this might work. So there must be some other measures to encourage, agricultural production, not by seizing and restricting basic constitutional rights. Furthermore, we are this law, only radically what we have done, which is to abolish the authority of the agricultural land agency, where it will no longer assign the country, but we are transferring it to the leaders of the local self-government units and we are saying that this is some step forward, which will foster the development of agriculture, which will finally allow for the fair distribution of land. And however, let's remember back in 2008 and 2001 we had this solution, so we had very big problems. Especially in my Posavina County, you had cases, I specifically remember the municipality of Vrpolje, where after the land was assigned, the dissatisfied peasants blocked the municipality, because they pointed out that it was a convenience, means that the head of the local self-government unit assigned to its members of the party or their sympathisers the country. So I don't see, which is why it would now be much fairer, faster and more efficient to share the country than the agencies could do. In view of the fact that the agency has only been established, that the law was passed in 2013 that the Agency's effective work was not even working for 2 years. The question is whether the season could have been followed in those 2 years and these last 2 years we know that the agency has hardly even worked, just so that this law could be passed and that it would have been proved to have been a bad solution. So time will show and we'll see if it's good to transfer it to local units and whether, I also heard in the debate it says it's good now, because the State's Attorney's office is going to oversee it. Well, it was in control in 2008. The state's attorney's office gave consent to every lease contract. And what happened? Sometimes it's been a year that these contracts stand in the state's attorney's office, that the whole vegetarian year has passed without these contracts being approved. Some tenders haven't even been completed after 7.8 years, so I'm very skeptical about it, because I'm not sure it's going to be exactly like you said. In addition, we can also look at recent statements by representatives of agricultural organisations and the CAPs, which also state that this law does not reflect what they have proposed and that these amendments and additions do not correspond at all to what was proposed in the law-making group itself. So we're finally going to go back to the beginning and see that the main problem is that we didn't carry out the commission, which we stopped it for so far unconfirmed reasons. The minister didn't even show himself today, which is why the commission was stopped. Furthermore, we will continue to return to this problem that our land has not been solved in the garter in the cataster and will continue to see that all these legal proposals will not contribute to what they needed. And for the last time, I'm going to re-problem that question, which is agricultural inspections. Why do we not have in this law what conditions and what professional training must be met by persons in order to be inspectors, and why is the two-step standoff in the course of the agricultural inspection being abolished? According to this law, when a agricultural inspector adopts a solution, it is finally and immediately going to the Administrative Court, there is no more second-degree jurisdiction of the ministry. So here's another question why this is so because it's not the point of shorting legal protection, we didn't in this way shorten the administration of land allocation, we denied citizens the right to protect because the more degrees it is stronger and better quality and legal protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68833	Thank you very much. And on your exhibit, we have more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68834	Thank you, Vice President. And you colleagues have well established that this law was put on the agenda just to prove that the former was not good. You've well established that the agency only had two years of work, after which they gave her some other assignments during that period was allocated 16,000 hectares, I'll repeat that it's still more than zero. You've also well established that this transfer of the ball to the local self-government, the experiment we've already had that failed, has simply failed. And what I'm glad you pointed out in particular, and it was interesting how pompous today was explained by the minister that this law was written where it was already written, and it was actually written in 2008. I don't know what to say about that, especially this finding of yours that they don't respect the Constitutional Court's decision on this article. By the time they prescribed, they could at least consult what the Constitutional Court had to say about the law that they had prescribed from themselves, which was disastrous in its application. At least ask around Slavonia... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68835	The answer of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68836	That's right, Your Honor. Here's what else I wanted to outrank in this law means when I've been cheating badly, I've already listed it, there's no respect for the waist. So when you're assigning land, then you're saying they have priority at least with the Soviets. So we want one successful agriculture, one efficient, economical agriculture, and we don't respect the technical equipment and I don't encourage agriculture to be dealt with by experts because it's not the same, agriculture that has a social function, but it's not a social category in the sense that we need to take care of people here, but we need to encourage a modern agriculture. Furthermore, further in the law, we have experts who will evaluate agricultural land that are building engineers, so there is no respect for the profession either. And in the end, as I have stated with the competent inspectors, there is no expert cookout mentioned at all. So this whole law, as he pointed out at the outset, was written by him and his men, but they obviously ignored the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68837	Thank you very much. The Republic has a respected representative, Dragica Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68838	Thank you, Mr. President. My fellow Members, you have well pointed out that during the previous seven, eight years, the state attorney's office did not issue an opinion or agreement that the state's agricultural land would be leased, but for this reason we stressed the importance of this procedure regarding the state's attorney's office in this law is that now these cases are being carried out by the County State's Attorney's Office and that they have a 30-day period and that's the difference and that's the positive and, of course, it's necessary to implement it. I think it should certainly be put in place if such an opinion and consent are not given, then put in, if it isn't, that the state's attorney's office is in agreement with the lease on state agricultural land. And I'm puzzled by this situation when you're talking about ownership, meaning when we're talking about owners who are inaccessible or who can't be found, you think it's problematic to go into such a kind of ownership, I think it's certainly all kinds of ownership that needs to be touched with caution. But as far as agricultural land is concerned, we know and have faced this summer the dangers of fire and we know other dangers that make agricultural land specific. When the owner is famous, we can remove those dangers from his expense. And in this situation it is given to someone else to process, the owner who owns the abandoned agricultural land, who is unknown, who is not there, is waiting for the money from the lease, is waiting for him a regulated agricultural land. And I'm very surprised when you speak lightly about the implementation of the commission and the need, and I agree that there is a need to think and develop the procedures of the compromise, but also the commission goes into ownership. Well, we can't say because you've now passed this law shouldn't be affected by property on unprocessed land, but when you're on a commercial basis and in procedures like that, then we can touch property and there shouldn't be any problem and it's simple. It's not okay to go from one procedure to another, not stick to arguments...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68839	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68840	Thank you. Now, right now, to tell my colleagues clearly and loudly, it is not that I personally object or do not object to the incursion of private property, I am here saying what has been decided by the Constitutional Court in respect of the same law of 2008 where, in copying this law, there was no respect for the Constitutional Court's decision which states that you cannot discriminate against private owners. And you are here discriminating private owners where one will be fined and the other because you consider them inaccessible or unknown, you will take the land and lease it to others. Therefore, I am only talking here about the obligation to respect the Constitutional Court's decision and on this and not in any way considering that agricultural production should not be developed and that agricultural land should be processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68841	The Republic also has a respected representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68842	Thank you, Vice President. Comrades Martha Luc-Polanc, in your presentation, you said that you doubted the implementation of this law on the ground for the reason that we have an unsettled situation on the ground, in the grantine, the cadastre, the unfinished commissioning and the suspension of further investment in the commissioning and handling of land books. I agree with you here because while the government's programme was in previous periods that the state geodetic administration, along with the county and units, invested in the settlement of land in the ZK vertical procedures, made several thousand hectares in Brod-Posavina County, settled the situation and based on that a number of tenders were carried out and I dare say that the local self-government units together in the co-ordination of the county had done a number of quality tenders and that a good part of our agricultural producers had been leased or in concessions, and of course I also condemn those cases where there were possible illegal actions but it was therefore good that there was a State Attorney's Office that ultimately agreed on it. And I think in that direction I agree with your doubts about the operationality of the State's Attorney's office, that's what I said in my statement, that it would be necessary for them to get involved more actively and to respect that 30-day deadline to give their consent to the same thing. And of course, under the urgent need to continue this land-saving business, the measurements and compositing of the grant and catastra records so that it can access the sale and lease at all, that we know what we have and that we allow our OPGs to know that they have 10, 20 or 50 hectares and where the borders are, but would also enable local self-government units to charge for the laying of cables and other infrastructure networks from T-com and other companies and thus enable income to units of local and regional self-government and the OPG itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68843	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc. You don't have to, thank you. Now, we're going to prevent the next individual debate, and that's the esteemed representative of Dragica Roscic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68844	Thank you, Vice President. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land in a second reading, and I am very pleased. It clearly defines such provisions as most of them, and I consider all known abuses of agricultural land to be removed from the past, which is very special to me when I see 8 championships that are given to different forms of agricultural operators that have eliminated the bad policies that have been in previous years, or in a very long number of years. What was often mentioned was this professional championship. We have to be aware and in my field I have been doing an analysis of the population involved in agriculture that the population that deals with agriculture in RJ is mostly old, that they are lower qualified, that some do not even have high school and that often when I pass our villages they are tied up and they remain in the country because they have someone who is older, who is tied to bed, they have people who have certain problems and simply do not go because of the bad policies but are just dealing with agriculture. They also find it difficult to reach educational institutions to raise their qualifications. We often know, he knows how to get through high school where I went, the one who doesn't have good grades, he goes to vocational schools, it's the same thing, the one who doesn't have a chance to go to college, he deals with agriculture. We, too, who have experience and whose agriculture is the main source of income, must not be discriminated against. We had a situation that personally through the programs and projects I've been writing, I've secured education for a farmer from my area, so we paid for his education. He badly wants to go to that education and now comes to the problem of meeting the deadlines to be educated. But what's going on? The closest education for a person who deals with cosmetics is 3 hours away. And it's distributed to be spent for three weeks, two days a week. The cost of going to such an education is greater for him than the cost that we cover for him and I think it is very important that we take positive measures towards all our farmers and that we have to accept the situation and we have to have all the data from the practices that tell us what is the situation between farmers and what is the structure of farmers. We need to help them set up a competence centre, we need to help them with their education, but we need to make sure that it is available in rural areas and there is a comment on the profession. We also talked about the capacity of local self-government units. We have established in the previous period that national capacities, state capacities and capacities of the ministry, the Agriculture Land Agency were not sufficient. There is a possibility that the capacity of local self-government units will not be sufficient for this law to be implemented. But we also know that local self-government has some knowledge that all state-level institutions don't have and that's crucial. It is up to us again to educate them and conduct decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. Especially in rural development because it is necessary. On the other hand, it transfers procedures from the State's Attorney's Office to the county state's attorney's office, and I think that this will help to make the agreed-on faster. I am sorry that it is not adopted that, although the consent of the State Attorney's Office is not given within the prescribed time limit, it means that the State's Attorney's Office is in agreement but I believe that it avoids different manipulations and other problems although, of course, I personally and all of us like to look at the positive in agriculture, there is a lot of speculators at both local and regional level. This law clearly gives priority to the domicileness and rigors of the OPGs. We have often mentioned unknown owners and has every right to protect private property but it must not go to the harm of others. I don't think there's any problem with a person who hasn't taken care of agricultural land for years, who's inaccessible when he decides to deal with his agricultural land to rent it and to have that land processed and taken care of. This is where we kept talking about how before we passed this law that it was necessary to adopt a strategy. In the design of strategies we have experience, in Croatia they waited or were brought 9 after 15, after 12 years all the strategies that came before the Croatian Parliament were brought for many years. I certainly believe that more than when the pre-conditions and the resources for the work of the analysis that is ahead of us by adopting strategies that the strategy should not be adopted for more than six months. But we need to be aware that we are currently implementing the Rural Development Programme until 2020, that the current law, which a certain part of the opposition considers should continue to be used until a strategy is adopted that the best-case procedures for land allocation have ended in two years. I am pleased that it was for certain years or when there was an opposition or when my party was in power to bring in larger numbers or that agricultural land was leased, but we must be aware that most of these leases, as my colleague said by the State's attorneyship after seven, eight years waiting for consent, did not mostly start with any government, with no mandate, began in one end in another, with the fact that I do not want to reduce any contribution of that period or that government in whose term of office was assigned state land. But we need to be aware if we are making it for six months and if we need with the existing law to last some two years of allocation, and we should also monitor these opportunities that we have by the European Commission to finance so that we can decide what we will finance, which we will not, which we have the opportunity to draw from European funds, and which requires some stronger national measures, simply would not be feasible. I don't know where and how it happened, I didn't expect from that party that Mr. Here's Preec was mentioned right in Saudi Arabia, I personally wasn't in Saudi Arabia because women are forbidden to go there, I can under very strict conditions ic. She was my colleague and the prisons he mentioned are not nearly as he imagines them, nor are the rights about how he imagines them. I don't know, I expected it from some of the other smaller clubs to mention Saudi Arabia, but if someone mentioned it now as an example of a country that we would have to follow, I wouldn't agree. I believe that here are the MPs here and Ante and Mr. Klaric and Šipić that they are not definitely local sheriffs and that they will help the national authorities implement all these measures, this law and I certainly welcome the adoption of this law, I look forward to its implementation, and probably if we see both speculation and manipulations that we did not provide for this law, I believe that you will very quickly correct it. And I'm glad that we have a lot of laws from your portfolio lately because we know that the previous minister, or we haven't seen any laws from that domain, so here we are looking forward to it, and let's all boldly move into the application of this law and increase the use of agricultural land. And we, while we were students, somehow all of this seemed unprocessed, abandoned, and those who decided to deal with after college by putting state agricultural land into operation were very disappointed and often, after these deadlines, they decided to go abroad and we believe that this law and deadlines would shorten and help develop the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68845	Thank you very much. And we have a series of replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of Damir Fellak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68846	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Rosčić, I am pleased that you pointed out that this Law on Agricultural Land is going into second reading, means that the procedure is being conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that this law was in the first reading, before that was a public debate, the first reading could be made comments. Now we're in second reading, and I think a lot of things have finally changed from first to second reading. Surely, the ministry itself has received it from a review of the public debates a whole series of proposals that it has appreciated, part of which is not and probably has its reasons why some proposals have not been respected. But I think that the key to everything is that so far the law as you have said, and many times everyone here and almost and the opposition and ruling repeated, the law so far has not been good, neither have those before the laws, and it will not be ideal for this law. But I think, however, that what prevails in everything is that the sooner we adopt this law, the sooner we start implementing it, the sooner the deadlines start, and eventually the people who want to process this country by these criteria that are prescribed in this law get to that country as soon as possible because I think that will ultimately be the greatest benefit for the entire population and for our country. Certainly not everything is ideal, that not everyone will be satisfied with this distribution, but it is better to divide the state country with this law and I think that this decentralisation is good that the units of local self-government do it again because it will still be far more honest than it has been done so far. So I ask you, do you agree that this law should go into effect without a third reading?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68847	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68848	Dear colleague Felak, I'm glad you noticed how broad the debate was conducted in this law I hope and believe I'm expert on most of these counterarguments in the debate which appeared during the day answered. It is very important that local self-government because of its knowledge, as I have already noted, we have noticed that state agencies, the ministries did not have the capacity to implement this law and they are becoming directly responsible. I believe this law will be equally good to local self-governments that work faithfully and honestly, regardless of which parties they come from. And I believe it's her fear, which perhaps some, I won't say, all the members of the opposition are afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68849	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68850	Thank you very much. Comrade Roščić, we spoke, i.e. In your debate, you mentioned that the land in Croatia is agricultural, that it will not be possible for foreigners to buy. Here, just one question about 2020, of course, with this law, one question to ask. Can a Croatian citizen, a natural and legal person, now buy land agriculturally in Hungary? And will Hungarian and private or legal, this, natural or legal person, be able to buy such as this and for 2020 under this law in Croatia agricultural land. I do not dispute the Hungarians' rights, however, it is their right to protect agricultural land, that foreigners cannot buy, it is a strategic resource. Especially in this time where Croatia, the village is empty and where, of course, it is more likely to sell these land and entire family economies, not only in Slavonia, but throughout the Republic of Croatia. Here, you answer this question for me and I will personally, i.e. I gave the amendment... The Mosta Club, but I personally gave this amendment, that there is no purchase, means there is no possibility of buying land for foreign natural and legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But on these two questions, the key, I'm interested in your answer. Can a Croatian legal, physical person buy land in Hungary now, or can Hungary buy agricultural land from this law, legal or physical person in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68851	The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68852	Under this law, i.e. under all existing provisions, international contracts, accession contracts, persons from Hungary cannot purchase land in the Republic of Hungary. As the laws in Hungary stand, I am not informed, nor is it the subject of my study. I am very clear, when I spoke in replicas, cited what are the documents, which are articles and what a moratorium, until 2020 with the possibility of an extension of another 3 g. You often like to emphasize that you are engaged in agriculture for your own personal needs. And I also have at home cokes, blubbers or what, and we produce various kinds of agricultural products for our own purposes. And it doesn't give me the right not to be an expert and not to listen to what someone, but rather to point out earlier. It can only enrich my knowledge and discussion. So I have now stressed that by 2020, in accordance with the Treaty on EU accession, we have a moratorium, despite the fact that we are using funds to implement the common agricultural policy. We can extend that period for another 3 years, that's exactly what this law allows us to do, but it won't allow us to extend that moratorium, a situation in which our, agricultural economies don't strengthen, unless they want to deal with agriculture, that is, they don't want to work on agricultural land, they don't want to rent it, and it's unprocessed and it does damage to agricultural land. If in this situation we do not implement this law, we will not have the opportunity to defend ourselves against buying, foreign legal and physical persons, land in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68853	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Dark Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68854	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, you mentioned something in your presentation that hasn't really been a subject for days and that's somehow left under the radar, which is education. The importance of education, the importance of education at all young people, the possibility of education, the possibility of those who want to deal with agriculture, that it be an invitation, to be a continuous educational way, to see what their benefits are, to see what opportunities they are, to see what progress they are, and therefore I think, absolutely, the result of this debate, which, here, has been all day and based on art. 36. and with what the agricultural land allows, it is quite important that you mention the importance of continued education. Because the world goes forward, the processes happen on their own, and if we really want young people to be engaged in agriculture, to have certain comparative advantages in relation to---- to some other people, other situations and other areas, that education is, indeed, more important, one continuous process and in terms of decentralisation, in the management of agricultural land, I kind of think, that the ministry, indeed, in the future, should be one of the holders of the continued education of young farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68855	The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68856	Exactly, if the analysis shows that we do not have enough educated farmers, we each need to respect their tradition, respect it, promote it and encourage education. The measures involved, for example, the use of pesticides, where farmers had to take additional exams, of course, if this whole education was done essentially, as it should, and not only did not get some confirmations and diplomas, it was one of the key things to deal with agriculture because indeed, we can't even encourage farmers who can't understand their health. But we must certainly be aware of this situation, that it is necessary to train farmers constantly, that it is very important that they have this education available to them. This enables some future programs, and it is important that we start to implement them. We don't just have to deal with these formal educations through colleges and stuff. There are also certified programmes from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which allow farmers to be educated for various skills that are at the level of previous entries in the workbook and it is important that they contain both practical parts and theoretical parts and that they are really monitored for what is on the ground and that they are not some education that is only located in centres in the Republic of Croatia such as Zagreb, Split or, let's say, Osijek, indeed, in agriculture they need the availability of such education as much as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68857	The Republic also has a respected representative, Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68858	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, it's a state country, so it might be more logical that the state has a little more interference than local self-government, although I don't think it's a key problem who's going to conduct the competition. I must remind you that it didn't work when the local self-government carried it out, waited for years, the minister could never sign the program. But I must remind you of one more thing about that when you mention knowledge or knowledge that has local self-government about its territory, it is quite clear, I agree with that, but then it is correct to remind that in the commission under the previous law that we now want to bring down, local self-government has appointed two members in the commission, one of the mayor's names, or mayor, one city or municipal council. Also, of course we're afraid, I mean, I don't have to explain it specifically because of all the bad experiences we've had. Responsible policy, of course, needs to be done, but look only at the membership papers on the award of the agricultural country from that period especially in Slavonia, it will be clear to you what I am talking about. But what I'd like to add to your exposure is this story with the state's attorney's office, you've all mentioned this 30-day instructional deadline, but what if the attorney's not gonna make that decision to anyone again? So we're back on the old one, and again it can stand somewhere in the drawer for months, and it won't, and it won't solve the problem, unfortunately, I wish you were right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68859	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68860	I thank my colleague. You said it was state property, which was once social property, and it became state property because we thought the state would manage it best. Now we see that local self-government can manage it better, of course you have cited examples of what was in the past and is constantly listed. But here I thank you for pointing out this particular flaw here and only two members of the commission have been elected. I think it's important if we want to essentially discuss what was the problem when local self-government managed it, that and that, is it now in this law or has it been removed. And I think it's enough to discuss what's in the papers. We can't discuss it, we can discuss it any way we want, but I don't know what we're gonna do about it because we're doing it here because we're reading the paper and then we get up and we're having a little debate. So what do we look like in the morning of this debate when we're taking a break, I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68861	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68862	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues, Rostice. You mentioned education, the need to educate our agricultural producers, and according to your debate, I realized that these people should learn to do what they do. However, regardless of their professional equipment, although a large part of the OPG holders are graduates of agronomy, veterinary or other professions that have nothing to do with agriculture, I assure you that there are also lower education producers of OPG who could lecture many here on agricultural production and on the average yields of agricultural cultures that they grow. Each one you wear an OPG farmer who wants his economy to prosper will work hard to educate themselves, learn regardless of their professional equipment, even those with a primary school are informative written and believe that they are very good at reading and internet and that they are informed about many things on the Internet. I'm telling you from personal experience if I'm hanging out with these people and I know what they know, what they don't know or what they should know. But we don't talk about them, I'm talking about agricultural land without which they won't be able to produce and free of all the education they've acquired so far. Unfortunately, all the remarks we have made here, criticism, criticism is not negative but positive. Everyone should be asked when they are criticised whether they are wrong or not, and this law and those who are proposing it, but to install all this into this new Law on State Agricultural Land and on Agricultural Land believe that the problems will again be as they have been in previous implementations and we will again come to local levels, to local commissioners, city councils, municipal, conjecture, whatever political fear they are doing there will again be problems with agricultural land and division and criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68863	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Roscic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68864	I thank my colleague for your replica. Our farmers are certainly both strong and durable, because we know that over the past many years of politics have not contributed to them. We've almost destroyed the livestock industry, and now here in the Parliament, we're trying to impose some kind of conflict on cattle farmers, and I think we're all aware of the state of cattle farming we're in and what kind of meat we're eating. We had a chance to hear about this when we were discussing GMOs, we had opportunities to get information about what kind of meat is entering our market, and I certainly have, given that our products are of quality, that only if we eat our domestic products can we get the freshest products, I certainly call on us to educate our farmers so that they can use quality tags and so that we can mark them is that quality products, a country that is not polluted, do not have a higher price. So I certainly welcome it, and I think it's certainly one way to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68865	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68866	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here, after seven and a half hours of debate, a little concentration is dropping. I'll try to touch a few important questions that I think are important, I'm sorry that there is no minister here, I told him in the morning that it's a good dialogue, I don't expect then I probably don't expect an answer, because that's probably how I got used to it, although I told him clearly this morning that there's no party discipline or club decision for me to convince me that I'm going to vote for the law, but he's avoided here at all, and that's the relationship and him personally as a minister and the entire government according to this representative body. But let's do it in a row. I'll start this debate with a single verse of Miroslav Skora when she says she'll have the village redo the gates again. Unfortunately, colleagues and colleagues won't. The village as we knew it would no longer exist. It's not that, it doesn't have to be a tragedy. Maybe we're on our way to build a village of the 21st century. But unfortunately, we are not going in that direction, nor will this legislative proposal go in that direction. We can look at the economic or economic aspect of this law, we can look at it socially, if you want demographically, and then we ask ourselves with the right questions what this law actually brings. I wanted to ask the minister here and today I asked him and now I would like him to be very clear whether this law will improve Croatian agriculture, actually increase the production of Croatian agriculture. If he says he will and guarantees it in a year, I will vote for this law. If he has the courage to say it. If that's not the case because he's ready to resign for a year and two, it's a matter for the minister. All this other stuff is a hollow story. The second question, how much, actually, when we're talking about cattlemen, which we're talking about the country is the danger of taking over from warlords. Is that 4,000 ha? Is it negligible in fact and if we paint here and ourselves and the Croatian public that something revolutionary is passed in law. My friend Bull is right to ask, I'm afraid of it. It's 2020. It's a moratorium. We must look at this law within other laws. We have the Family Agricultural Economy Act. Do you remember a colleague and a colleague who writes in the Family Agriculturals Act? If a stranger can establish an OPG in the area of the Republic of Croatia, he doesn't have to have a residence here. Article 36 of subparagraph A states that the holder of a family holding or owner of a family craft, etc. has the advantage. who is at least 3 years old... a place of residence or a seat or a production facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here's a foreigner who doesn't have a residence here, who has a family farm and who can come into possession of agricultural land. And that's fellow Bull in some way and the answer to your question. As far as the Agricultural Production Strategy is concerned, we cannot talk about any strategy. We now have the current energy strategy. We can't speak unless we know what our rate of economic growth will be. And that question should actually be answered by this law. And that's why everything, all the aspirations we want to make, and this law is meaningless if we don't know what this law is going to end up with. Is there gonna be a promotion? And now what I welcome anyway, and it's not a questionable return of decision to local self-government units. However, the agency is being abolished. What I resent to the minister is no longer an information system, at least he doesn't want to develop it any further. But why wouldn't that information system be in service to local self-government units, so to municipalities and cities. Why don't they get layers from the ARCOD, why don't we get all the information we need to make it easier to carry out the competition and to control what's going on on in the field. Without control and this law won't actually work, because I personally think, not only because I think, but probably colleagues and colleagues who are the leaders of the local self-government unit know that. Well, the earth is already divided. A small number will remain farmers without land. The bigger problem is that young farmers will reach one hectare of the country. That's actually the problem we have to deal with. Maybe there's a solution in some kind of mentor, something that would lead farmers into production. After all, it would also be a function of education, cooperation with the education system, our schools. And two agricultural colleges that the Republic of Croatia should be proud of. It is the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek and Zagreb which should be the bearers of the profession for this area. I won't bother you anymore. It's been a long time. I'm sorry there's no minister here. He may answer some questions in the final word, but that is the essence of my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68867	Here, at least you spoke briefly, you have a replica after all. He's the first respected representative of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68868	We have raised a lot of questions, but we see that the minister is not there to ignore, so the Croatian Parliament does not want to answer many of the questions that have been asked here. I wonder, have you thought about how to prevent the illegalities that occur in the speculation of the OPGs, because we often have a situation where we have multiple OPGs in one address and often, where these land tenders occur, means irregularities, or illegalities, so that we can also pass through this legislative proposal or some kind of amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68869	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68870	Thank you. So this is the real question of how to jump into all the possible abuses of the systems that are happening? We have today and the Central Office for the Development of Digital Society, and we even have what it's called, I think it's called the Commission chaired by the Prime Minister himself, the Commission for I don't know the exact name now, mainly about informing society. What's important is that the data has to be transparent. What you're saying could easily be hardened in one system that would be established, in which it would be visible over here and fellow Shuker is here, through the OIB you could see a blood count of every family holding, not just family, but generally agricultural holdings. So you could see how many, which are coming in, which are coming out, who actually has agricultural land, and there are none, and he didn't buy a gram of artificial fertiliser, which didn't buy a liter of oil or diesel. It could be very easy to see who's subletting the country. Then those malfeasances would be much less. As far as this law is concerned, in order to prevent it, he was just supposed to leave the information system, meaning to install it to further improve it. We do not see that the law leaves an economic programme, but we will see in the rules whether it will be mentioned at any time later as one of the land allocation measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68871	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68872	Comrade Zhagar, we all expected that in the first reading of the ministry, the minister would accept certain proposals. However, 26 proposals,... here during the debate in the first reading none was accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague used to say it was accepted. Not one and not only was neither, but when the first reading was made, no one from the ministry gave a twist of words, silence. And now there's no final word for voting. And the minister left. He told him what the PR wrote him was demagogy, a lie about the OPGs being here that it would be better, the HRT is not transferring, very important to the village and peasants, people who expect this law, silence, torment, as if Mao Zedong were in power. We are here 15, closed, no exit information, I believe these journalists who transfer to portals and certain other media, will convey that the minister has not even applied for the final word, that all day our speech, the proposals, we will make amendments, have not been compromised. He may be ashamed, the shame above all those he represents, it is a village and peasants, it may be a shame to come to the villages, ask for votes, when he has escaped by this law, will not deliver the final word, so I invite him, there is another one in front, I have answered on behalf of the club, there is still time to buy, I believe that someone from HDZ can seek a break and that the minister comes and pleads about everything that Parliament has said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68873	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68874	Thank you. Dear counterpart Bulj, so today the minister has made it clear here that he will have the final word. I don't know what happened in the meantime. He announced that in his final statement he would answer many of the questions that were asked. I don't know if the minister will come not only because of us MPs but because of the entire Croatian public, especially the OPGs, and at the end of the unit leaders of local self-government, who will now be burdened with having to re-engage certain resources. It is true that units of local self-government collect that part of the agricultural land supply fee, however, many things that have not been solved around agricultural land, above all, the scale of agricultural land, that is, the composition, the arondation, the Polish roads, the canals, all of this falls on the burden of units of local self-government without talking about irrigation systems. So it would be good for the minister to come here, say how the law will be applied, how the ministry will help each time there are constant problems in place. We're expecting him because he said he'd have the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68875	The next individual debate is that respected representative, Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68876	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Objective of the Agricultural Land Act and of all laws adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture i.e. The Croatian Parliament proposes that the Ministry of Agriculture should be to preserve the number of population in the Croatian village, rural area, to protect life in the countryside, cultures and customs that they have preserved, as well as biodiversity. Since I believe that we are people's representatives here and not parliamentary representatives, we represent the Croatian people, I will first start with an example that just came by phone directly from the village of our producers who say like this, we have 10 OPGs each of which has 30 conditional throats and 50 hectares of land and we have a small company with 500 conditional throats and no land. Guess who's gonna get the land in the contest. Here's a riddle, so they're going to get cattlemen with 500 conditional throats without land because these O.P.G.s have some land, have 30 conditional throats and no more conditions to get more land. I ask you what our goal is, whether our goal is to keep 10 families in the rural area or to allow one supplier who has only been working on the matter so far to get 500 hectares of land and thus to still get a certain amount of support from the Croatian state. As far as we're concerned in the HSS, the goal is to keep these 10 families alive and to keep the space they live in because they cut and edit them. Here's what came directly from the field, you might as well think about it. What I would also like to say is private agricultural land that has been abandoned, which is in this law in some way affecting the constitutional category of private property where the state is placed in a position to determine who will be the landowner and to determine under what conditions, at which price is available with that private land. We believe that land should be put into operation but under the Constitution, private property is inalienable and this has already been an example in one of the former laws that fell in the Constitutional Court. What's interesting about this part is the depletion of such surfaces where it's said that whoever's going to be a tenant and who's coming out of that land, all the wood that he's selling. The income remains to him. On the other hand, we have state agricultural land that those who rent, just as they must scream, that wood mass does not belong to these tenants but belongs to the Croatian forests. It's a little illogical for me here, and I'm starting to suspect in this part that someone saw that there are many private areas on which a certain forest content has already been established and that it would be convenient to visit, sell under cover of agricultural land and private land. I hope I'm wrong, but it's all slowly like that. The land available through the units of local self-government from the experience we have is always subject to a variety of influences and no matter who suggests it here, we will have a very difficult time going through, this mentality that we have and these problems that are going to happen, because many of us who were in the units of local self-government and regional self-government, we know how it went in some past days. And there should be very careful and what I think the ministry should be a far stronger filter of what will come and units of local self-government that through their, whether city or municipal councils, will make decisions on the most favourable bidders. It is no longer as large a quantity of land as it was, as I have already pointed out several times in my replicas today, I am afraid that what I have just stated in the first instance, that many family economies will be less extinguished because they will lose the country than some larger, stronger, stronger, more powerful, who have more points in competitions and better conditions. The problem is domicile, there are some ideas of some MPs who might suggest amendments, that it be within a 50km radius. I, who live in Kutina, could then apply to a tender in 4 counties. Now imagine that I am going to Brodsko Posaviska, Bjelovarska bilogorska, could go all the way to Bjelovara up to Zagreb County. 50 km is very far for the transport of machinery and for the rational processing of agricultural land. So, this 50 km idea, I don't think it should be accepted in the Croatian Parliament and that it must remain domicile by units of local self-government, as already stated here in the law. Our agricultural producers, who are left, who are others who have not gone to Ireland, we need to keep them as we know them and I think we also have to oppose them, but also the ruling who have hands to pass the law, regardless of what kind of legislation he is, take care of, what happens and how he lives in the Croatian village. And what will happen to those who have invested millions in their machinery and equipment of their economies, if they lose land to those who today have only cattle. The livestock is a prerequisite for the development of Croatian agriculture, because we are aware that today, due to the lack of livestock, we have no one to place war products, but unfortunately in Croatia we produce only a few products in which we are sufficient. We can't even place our pork that we're far from enough, we can't even place vegetables, which we're also not enough to produce. We can't sell anything here, why? Because we allow everything to enter the Republic of Croatia. We're aware of a lot of affairs that have happened with both meat and vegetables, and I don't know what. And I ask you, who more, than citizens, even from farmers, has faith in our institutions? Get out on the street, do a survey, I think you'll be terribly surprised. Well, we can see that the polls are also saying that the government is going in the wrong direction. Although it may be funny to some people, I speak, perhaps emotionally, because I am in that position and I feel for those people in the country, because I live in the country and I will never leave the country. Because it's a better way of life than it is in the city 100 times. But I can see that this village is simply dying. I live in a village on the edge of Lonjsko polje, where there were 100 cows, where you can't buy a liter of milk today. Where you can't buy one blanket, where you can't buy anything from agricultural products almost. Not even the people who've had their own until recently will have that either. Agricultural production is in a terrible downturn. This year, Serbia saves us for war products, as funny as it may seem, but the price of soy was dictated by Serbia, with its purchase of Croatian soy. We didn't even know how to fertilize our soy and sell it, because nothing was worth it with us. And there are opportunities to live in the country, here I confirm that you can live in the country. They just have to follow us, first of all, through this one, one of the basic laws, but also through other laws that the Ministry of Agriculture prepares or does or will propose, where exactly those who are small in the country must be a priority. But, of course, even you little ones can't survive without businesses, without silos, without sushi, without finishing, without processing, which is exactly what these medium-sized enterprises are doing. So, I think there's plenty of room for everyone, all you have to do is make sure that the part that's right is arranged and that all our people who are left and want to live in the country, who are in love with their horses, cows and what they have, is to stay here and not to go to work in Ireland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68877	Thank you. And we have replicas on your exhibit. He's the first respected representative of the Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68878	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart, so what the minister was saying this morning, the truth wasn't deciding, you're asking now, so they must have been doing some kind of simulations into the ministry? He must make it clear and loud to say whether there is a danger for the warlords to lose their country, precisely because of these things you say, which is about cattlemen, who, how many of these cattlemen have not enough hectares on the throat of cattle and how much of that danger. That's what the minister should say. And that's why he'd be here right now, but he's gone. And another thing when we're talking about private property. You know, when a man comes to you as head of local self-government and says, "If a log or a brick falls on my child, if anything happens to him, I'll kill you all here in the community." And you can't do anything, because it's private property. The building inspector comes in and says, "You can only fence that ruins if you want to." Someone's got an idea to bring a machine, so if you bring it down, it wouldn't be dangerous, you can't do that, it's private property. And now you say, the tenant will use wood mass. So what if that owner sues him afterwards? And he says he's done him significant material damage, ten times as much as it's ever been... Will the state stand behind that tenant? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He won't. This one will sue him privately and he'll have to pay him compensation. These are things to think about. Of course, it's in order for all of us to have agricultural land in place, but I think we should spend more time in the debate, and this law really should have been sent to third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68879	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68880	Thank you. So, counterpart Zhagar, unfortunately here is the minister, he will not change much of it, he will vote on this law on Friday, ruling with the majority, their proposal will go as usual. Since there will be quite a number of amendments, I believe that they will not be accepted as usual and what we have been saying about wood mass on private agricultural land whose income will remain to these tenants, exactly what I mentioned and you have confirmed your replica is a suspicious action. There is a large number of quality wood that is worth a lot today on the market. Who's going to evaluate that, and who's going to judge that owner if he comes back in 10 years and leaves it to create a forest, who's going to make up for that value that someone drove away and nobody's ever estimated? In our catastrus for a large number of oranics introduced into Agronet as oranics, it says catastranically that these are meadows, pastures, goats, and I do not know what intentions are not mentioned. We've had a very big mess here, and who's going to find out here that it was ever an oran and not a forest. I think it's a mistake if it's done or if it's intentional in the law, so it's understandable to me why, but here I urge the motionary to think about trying to remove that item, so if anything else belongs to the Croatian forests as it belongs to this when the state's agricultural land is cramped. But then someone will assess what that value was and how much it has to pay back to that landowner if he shows up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68881	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68882	Thank you, Vice President. To listen to the debate today, the whole idea is that this law has been amended or the new law because of the things I have already stated, there is no excess reason why it has been removed before, there is mention of problems with criteria and points, then it would be more correct that the previous law is changed in that part if you felt that this is a problem, that this point is changed, criteria etc. Because as far as local self-government is concerned, local self-government has been involved with two members of the committees, so I don't see any problem. My colleague, you mentioned local self-government and the role of local self-government throughout the process, unfortunately here some act as if life had started only after the last parliamentary elections, this is unfortunately so, there are countless examples from the period until 2012, in 2013 why it was bad for local self-government to determine this. Only for those who don't know it, who don't remember mentioning it to look at it in the papers, there's a lot on the portals, but I'm just going to give you examples of a local case, an example of Djakova by the laws that were very similar to what is now being passed. The competition was in 2004 and it was settled in 2014. For 10 years it stood in the drawer, about 3600 acres was solved 2750, now less important that everything was not solved but it was standing in the drawer. It's just going to happen now because you won't be able to do it any other way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68883	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68884	Thank you. So here's a colleague, as far as local self-government is concerned, I remember from a long time ago, back in 2000, when we crashed into the Box's state-owned agricultural land programme, we took it down because it was a lease, sale and concession, and the part that was intended for the OPGs was a 40-year-old forest where the departments were drawn, where the trees were already significant but then the tenant couldn't use that wood mass and sell, if he could, then everyone would have been fighting for it and would have been happy if they were. However, in this case, it was not possible to process at all, and this was intended for the OPG programme, and for those who already had greater business ambitions. Then it was still a lot of work whether you were shining or not, they got support and here thank God we were able to bring down that available program, which is why I have a skeptic of local self-government, she has to do it because she knows the situation best than I said, best to have the filter that has the ministry and what she decides about in the end, she has a good filter and they are responsible for whether they're going to try to make it at a lower level to miss out or recognize what's not well done and stop and bring back to the units of local self-government, just because there's a problem that time goes, goes, people go, go, go, go, go, go, go, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68885	Now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68886	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about one of the most important laws of Croatian villages and agriculture in general. After 8 hours of discussion, after the first reading we had a month ago, we received 26 remarks, none of them were accepted in the first reading, and we also do not see in this at all Minister Tolusic's concern that after 8 hours of debate, the parliamentary deputies who gave their views here, did Minister Tolusic have nothing to say. Minister Tolusic, with this law, is essentially the last to turn off the light of Croatian villages or better said, Minister Tolusic is the one who will put the last nail into the coffin of Croatian villages and peasants. This law does not protect the OPG, we do not have a revision of the current land lease of hundreds of hectares of local self-government units, this law allows foreigners of private and natural persons to become owners of our agricultural land. All targeted so far has been led to this law, the village has been evicted, villages are empty, dairy production has been reduced, everything is reduced, so simple villages are no longer available and at this point this law has essentially reached its goal. He gave it all up for sale. Do Croatian peasants deserve the Croatian government to be his stepmother? Let's ask ourselves a dozen of us in the Croatian Parliament in front of the extinguished cameras is there simply no Croatian peasant to see this. I expect still, two and a half minutes until the end of this debate, well here is my colleague Majdak, and there is no minister, and I ask him once again to show himself about all the objections, which is why no comment has been accepted, which is why this law allows the Hungarian citizen to become the owner of our country, agricultural land, and the Croatian citizen cannot own a Croatian peasant land in Hungary. Is it the EU, are these the same rights of all peoples and states? I expect clear answers from the secretary to tell me if the Croatian peasant OPG can buy in Hungary land, physically and legally, and will be able to buy from 2020. Hungary can buy in Croatia land? By this law you have made it possible and this is high treason, this is a continuation of high treason policy and you are also with the minister of one of the graves of the Croatian village, you are the last one to turn off the light for the Croatian peasant. So far, all the culprits have been, and you are the ones who are turning off the light from the Croatian peasant and it is sad that you are so unarticulated in this whole story that not once today has the minister answered this question of mine, not once. You've turned off the cameras, you've turned off the light stage, we've got two parliamentary representatives from the majority, we've got one ten times as much from the opposition, you care so much about the village and the peasant, you care so much about the village and the peasant. Yes, three, you said the secretaries with the smile three. You as the undertaker of Croatian villages i.e. One who puts the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian village I would ask you to address on behalf of all MPs, and that is an obligation, mainly of the OPGs, and to provide answers to these questions. The last time you ran away, and this time, don't be short and escape as the prime minister did the last time, before him, Minister Maric. I expect answers to this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68887	Thank you. But there's also a replica in your debate, the esteemed representative of the bush.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68888	Comrade Bulj, we've opened a lot of questions here today, unfortunately here's the minister's escaped and he didn't want to answer any questions, and I've had a lot to ask him, and unfortunately right now, I've had to ask my colleagues from the same club the questions I've addressed to the minister. We see the attitude of HDZ towards the Croatian village, we have you say two MPs, we don't have two, we have three representatives from HDZ, and here we see that from Most means we're the only ones left, here's a colleague from the SDP there's no one here in the assembly, although colleagues from the HSS were most of the debate. But here we can see that on behalf of the motionor, something will be said by the secretary of state, and then we'll ask these questions. and besides those problems that you have highlighted in your discussions and replicas, today we have not said anything about the return of the nationalised property that has been recovered, but has not been implemented to the end and farmers have no ownership through one and the question is, who will compensate for the loss of these farmers that cannot compete for European funds, what can I not bring to the end of the matter? These are all the questions the minister was also supposed to answer here, and he unfortunately did not answer any questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68889	Now the honourable representative Miro Bulj will answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68890	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, today the minister made his PR service as they did, he read so much as the village was robbed, that the support of the wrong sharing was all he nicely recited and left. And by this law he just puts the last one I said nail in a coffin. He hasn't answered a single question. This law does not answer any questions. The O.P.G.s are in a worse position here, basically this is the end of the O.P.G. I believe that it will be fought, this is not an invitation to leave, this is an invitation to survival and that the peasant and the village what once was a united tree will force this power no matter what the lights of the stage have turned off, and even national television this important topic for the Croatian village is not being transmitted. It's their key interest that this is happening, that 10 of us here are talking, that the chairmans make fun of us when they call us each other replicating. It's very important to change the Rules of Procedure. That's the most important thing, for example the lex sheriff to bring. These are the key topics of this call. And the key topic is agriculture, a village and a peasant, a country. They don't care, they haven't solved a nation-based country, or any other problem we've talked about, but we've only made it possible for foreign owners, i.e. foreign, legal and natural persons from 2020 may become owners of now empty villages and family economies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68891	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected state secrets of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here, on behalf of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Agriculture and Minister Tolusic, I thank you for the debate today that lasted just over 8 hours. I thank you for the debate on the Final Proposal for a Law on Agricultural Land as a reform law, as the most important reform law in the area of agriculture that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing in this mandate with a set of laws that are meant to be complemented by this law. In the opening statement, the minister answered most of your questions, i.e. MPs and MPs, in an additional statement. I can only say that we have received a good number of amendments, but we are analyzed and that, as soon as possible, we will consider the acceptable ones and the government will show itself about the same amendments. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68893	For your first word, thank you, you already have three replicas. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68894	The first word from the experience of the present, if the promoters would say thank you very much and goodbye, and he hasn't answered anything yet. Mr. Secretary, welcome the minister, give him deep greetings as the undertaker of the Croatian village, as the one who turned off the last light. This is to tell Minister Tolusic, that the behaviour of such an important law is very embarrassing of him, that he should be sitting here in the assembly sitting with us and ultimately debate with us and now conclude whether he accepts the amendment, is he an example for foreign owners, that foreigners become owners of agricultural land. We don't have that answer, we don't have that answer from you. The minister's gone. Where's the minister? Give him my regards. Say hello to him. We've been here all day talking for eight hours. He doesn't give the final word. You'll just have to listen obediently. He forbade you to speak for the last time, so you didn't turn to him at all in the first reading. 26 We made observations in the first reading, here are 26 objections to the law. None of them were accepted, though not even read, was immediately rejected. Is it a sovereign right for us to have the same Croatians as the Hungarians who are in the EU? Is it the same right that we can protect that foreign, private and legal persons and natural persons cannot be foreign owners of agricultural land? Why Hungarian citizens could buy the country's farmers in Croatia and do so. And they'll buy us all if we don't protect them. Is that part of this government's Hungarian-Croatian contract? Please welcome the undertaker of the Croatian village of Minister Tolusic and may be ashamed that he was not in this assembly in the end gave the final word on the most important law on the OPG, the village and the peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68895	The State Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68896	Thank you for asking. I'll give him my regards. I'll give the Minister my regards. On your explicit question of how the law protects land from national interest is defined in Article 2, meaning how the land is protected. The additional criteria are also defined in the same way as the criteria set out by the holders of family farms, i.e. young farmers. And I will remind you of the fact that the accession agreement of the Republic of Croatia is with the EU, means the country's ban on selling pages until 2020 with the possibility of extending until 2023. If you have any doubts, 11.2.2016. Minister, I was not yet deputy, I was appointed on 16 March 2016, said the deadline for the ban on agricultural land sites was extended until 2020. So in the business log, it came out, and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia will send additional information in time, a request to the European Commission to extend the deadline for the 2023 period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68897	Thank you. Did I get a good look at that? My colleague Bulj's been doing some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What's hurt please? Which part of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68898	There you go. 238's been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68899	.../Intruder Reiner: In what?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68900	So I'll just say for a little while, that this is the truth that you said that strangers wouldn't own it. Since 2020, they have had the possibility of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68901	I'm sorry, that's not item 2 of that article and don't abuse it. You're getting a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68902	Thank you very much....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68903	Let's move on. Your Honor, Mr. Grmoy's representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68904	Here is because Minister Tolusic has escaped, otherwise he likes to hide behind false tricks on forums and praise his achievements as being here in the assembly, meaning to give a lecture and run away, so I would ask you for this proposal that I have made and we will refer it as an amendment. As regards the Commission for the Borrowing, since it has five members, three means are representatives of the profession, and all three will, of course, be elected by the majority in that representative body and two members are foreseen as means of the council, or in the city or municipal council, to be one representative of the opposition. So it's basically going to be 4 times 1, because this 4 is going to pick the majority in the city council or municipal council, but we're going to have transparency, because the opposition is going to be involved in this process. Well, here, I'd like to ask you to read about that amendment and the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68905	Dear Secretary Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68906	I apologize to the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I thank you for your proposal, there is no obstacle from the proposing that the city's authority, i.e. the municipal government, decides and thus defines the composition, means the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68907	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68908	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course, this topic, the country's availability and the possibility of buying foreigners, is something that, as it comes to 2020, will, of course, also require support that your letter, too, has good support in the Croatian public. I mean here, now 2018 is not far, and that's exactly what we're trying to do. So we are trying to convey a picture of what we believe and based on our experience, so that it could be a problematic point in developing Croatian agriculture. So it's not an anger at the request, maybe sometimes, to say communication is a little bit more intense. It may be trying to impose itself, really important, but in a letter in which you will send on the commission and for extensions and later, when we go to other measures, it will certainly be clear to you, when you list from 2018 some other occasions and that, how embarrassing it is and why the commission should not at all discuss whether the extension is valid and whether it is necessary. And I also hope that then we will be together and stronger, when some other measures are being put in place, and not only us as Croatia, but all of these countries, which provide resistance, which defends some of their interests, which are at risk from the West, primarily from the Western part of the EU, that we will be partners of what we will be able to change, to say, the practice which so far rules. Because we're not in the same position. We've been having a lot of discussion here on the council board. We are aware that there is still a difference, not only between the ruling and the opposition, but also within the ruling one, which was, for sure, that this law is not perfect, nor does it meet the expectations of a large number of people, but it is good to finally point out that, in the future and we can measure, measure us as an opposition, whether we were right, measure both the promoters and the ruling ones who supported this law, so that then and finally, a proposal that will be in the direction, perhaps what will be the best solution. And I'd love to meet you on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68909	Thank you. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now, here we were very efficient, half seven is at night, we're going to move on to the second point. We're done with the first act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68910	We are now going to vote on the debated points. 1. Final draft law on agricultural land, second reading, P.Z. No. 178. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the Club of Representatives of the SDP proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law which reads: I ask you to remain quiet. The final proposal for a agricultural land law will be followed by a third reading. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give evidence of the proposed conclusion. With us is Honorable Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68911	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that the debate on the law is conducted in the third reading. In view of this proposal to refer the final proposal of the agricultural land law to the third reading of the opinion, we are of the opinion that the proposals are unfounded, unfounded, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia contributes further to its amendments to clarifying and improving certain provisions in which neither the content nor the concept changes the final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68912	Thank you. Therefore, the government does not accept this proposal, so I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of MOST representatives' clubs with independent HSS and SDP lists. Please, let's vote. I'm saying the proposal didn't get enough votes, 52 was for, 78 was against it. After the debate was concluded, the Government also submitted amendments in accordance with Article 199. The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so please vote. I find that most of the votes, 87 for and 1 abstention and 37 against, have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the proposed Secretary of State, Tugomir Majdak, to explain the amendments submitted, so all five amendments will be opened after which we will open the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68913	Thank you. Amendment number one. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Article 14(3) also states: the agricultural land records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be carried out by the Ministry on the basis of data provided once a year by local self-government units, i.e. the city of Zagreb for its territory. The registration shall be made publicly available on the network pages of the unit of local self-government in which the land is located. It is argued that, in addition to the data on private-owned agricultural land that is given or leased in accordance with the provisions of this law, data on owners and tenants on the property concerned are also added to the records in order to make it publicly available. Amendment number 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter Article 15(6) is amended as follows: ‘Agricultural land referred to in Article 14(1) of this Act shall be disbursed on its own expense within 2 years of the date of introduction into the property, and the wood mass remaining after the decommissioning and the assets resulting from the sale of the wood mass shall belong to the tenant.’ Additionally, in Article 15(6), the new paragraph is added, which reads: ‘If the tenant withdraws the agricultural land in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Article, and does not continue to use agricultural land for agricultural purposes in accordance with the contract, the lease agreement shall be terminated and the tenant shall pay the rent for all the duration of the lease.’ Amendment number 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on Article 30 Article 30(2) is amended as follows: “The units of local self-government, or the city of Zagreb, determines in its programme the limit of the maximum area that can be leased to a single natural or legal person.” The proposed amendment requires the obligation of the unit of local self-government to determine the maximum area of land that can be leased to a single natural or legal person. Amendment number 4. Governments of the Republic of Croatia on Article 31 In Article 31, paragraph 13, a new paragraph 14 is added, which reads as follows: ‘Members of the commission referred to in paragraph 13 of this Article as well as members of their family holdings may not be participants in public procurement and sales contracts which are in charge of the work of that commission’, the provision has been added to prevent conflicts of interest of members of the Commission for hire and sale established by the most favourable bidders. The fifth amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 36 In Article 36(1), point A, B and G are amended and read, ‘The holder of a family holding or owner of a farm craft or a legal person in a range of micro and small enterprises whose holding is a primary activity, which is at least 3 years old, receives a public tender from the owner or owner of cattle, has at least 3 years until the publication of a public tender or residence or office or a tax facility in the function of agricultural production, in the area of the local self-government unit, or the city of Zagreb, for which a public tender is called, and does not meet the conditions of an average or a ratio of at least 1 hectares of an orain, meadows per conditional throat, or at least 3,3 hectares of karst kres per conditional year, which is calculated for the production year which the public tender is announced’. In the case where the tenderer makes the transfer according to this criterion, and the production unit for which the tender is higher than the current needs, according to the calculation of the number of conditional throats per hectare, the bidder must undertake in the economic programme to equalise the required number of conditional throats within 2 years on the conclusion of the lease contract. The offerer does not exercise the championship rights under this criteria for areas that are more than 10% higher than its current needs. Under B, the previous owner whose farm is the primary activity, if he is in peaceful possession, on the basis of the contracts which have expired and are concluded on the basis of an earlier public tender, on the basis of the contract on... the concession, on the basis of a temporary use contract to the agricultural land owned by the State, on the basis of a peaceful property which cannot be less than 5 years of age, in accordance with the law governing the availability of agricultural land, which has fulfilled all the obligations under the contract, which has expired, or until now, the owner of multi-annual land deposits for which a public tender is opened and in the peaceful possession of that land, has received a public tender for at least 5 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The natural, under G, natural and legal persons, engaged in agricultural production, paragraph 4 shall be amended and read as follows, in determining the conditions of the average number of throats and livestock of agricultural areas referred to in point (A) of paragraph 1 of this Article, for the tenderer who is a legal person shall be taken into account the total number of bovine animals and the total area of agricultural land available to the tenderer and all related natural and legal persons. The interpretation of this Article states that points A and B have been amended and therefore gives priority to farmers whose primary activity is agriculture. Point G has also been amended to enable all natural and legal persons engaged in agricultural production to make the right advantages under the agricultural production criteria independent of the length of the business. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68914	My colleagues and colleagues, I'm just asking you to keep the noise down, because I'm sorry, some people are showing me they're not hearing well. We've got the sound that we've got, so I'd like to ask you for some attention after all. Proceed, Secretary of State. Here you go. ... You're done now? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm good at opening up a debate. [[Intruder: Yes.]] Only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate in the debate. A colleague of Vlaović's. Here you go. Here you go, Secretary of State. Go back to your seat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68915	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state. The HSS Club does not accept these amendments to the Government. I'm glad that you put part of the proposal that we had in the debate and that is an integral part of our amendments into the government's amendments, but you're not the main part. First of all, it is okay for us to commit the units of local self-government, to provide once a year data to the Ministry of Agriculture Land, however, there is no such proposal and associations of farmers Life that have asked for the final order to be made available to the state agricultural land, because the disproportionateness between the data provided by the State Department of Statistics in the list of agriculture and registers and archods was required to make order, records. Because how you're going to ask local self-government units, if the state hasn't arranged this area, to know the point that's a particle in the lease, which is sold, which is in the concession. Whether or not a lease has been paid on it and in what form it is available. Until we figure this out, we can't even impose the obligations of the local self-government unit in the opposite direction. Second, which is important, to get into art. 36th accepted the note of the HSS that priority is given to those economies, family farms, which are primarily engaged in agricultural production. Because we had a situation on the ground, that some were engaged in agriculture that had other economic activities, and they were in the same rank as in the OPG. This is a good thing that you accepted, however, you left the small business priorities at the same level. And there was a requirement for small businesses to be placed in a lower ranking, for reasons to give it a greater chance to small family farms, micro-enterprises and cattle farmers. This way, we don't know what it's going to say in the rulebook, and we're afraid if they stay in the same rank that small businesses will get land, and they won't get family farms. And your situation on the ground is that you have 870 blocked family farms, with over 400 million kunas in debt. And if we move on like this, you'll have more, because many have invested in the machinery, and now they're going to run out of land. And also, you didn't accept our proposal that as you accepted that units of local self-government operate with a maximum lease program, it's okay, because they best know on the ground how much they have a country fund and how interested they are and that they give a chance to a greater number of family agricultural holdings to get a country. But you didn't accept our proposal not to limit it within 50 acres of particles to 10 hectares. Because the same proposal was made to make available units of local self-government, offices in their area that are suitable for sale, in terms of rounding up properties. Now you'll have a situation, that the O.P.G. is processing a 20-hectare board. And there's a 12-hectare board next to them, and he's trying to buy it, and he won't be able to. If it's already maximum to buy 50 acres, why'd you leave it behind, and that's why HSS won't accept these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68916	A colleague, Sincic, A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68917	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, we also reject these amendments to the Government, our amendments are not accepted and it is evident that the government's policy of the HDZ government continues with previous agricultural policies, and this is to go hand in hand to large agricultural producers, once it was Mr. Todorovic, he is gone, there are no others left, Ervačić, Pripunić and such a team. If we look at the structure of agricultural producers, we know that 80% of the OPGs are, they're guarding rural space, they're working on demographic reconstruction, not a few large, medium and small producers. The classification of small ones if I am not mistaken, it is said on the Committee on Agriculture that this will be undermined by the Government, it has not clearly happened. So given this agricultural policy with the classification of small, medium and large enterprises in relation to the funds to be given, it is evident that there will be no improvement in the status of the CAP, that a large part of them will remain in the country-free blockade and that the business assual. I ask after the vote and about our amendments, I reject yours, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68918	That's understood. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68919	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. When we look at the only accepted amendments you've accepted, there are 14 of them. She put the government and her 5 on the final bill. 19 Amendments to this law in the final proposal only speaks about why both the request is justified and the Club of Representatives of the Most and other clubs to go to third reading. So we're now facing practically the day of the vote that in a series of amendments that we'll agree to, in fact, you've just reformed, the government has made amendments to Article 36, ignored that the opposition has warned, we've made proposals, you've reshaped as your own. In fact, in some ways we can say you're doing well, but here's the thing, if there was still a little time, understanding, if we'd been through this one more time and aligned, the law would certainly have been as good as that. What is crucial to say is that even after this law, what everyone expected would be an actual agrarian reform, it will not be because we are waiting from Jakovina and beyond, we are waiting all the time for us to get more implementation, to have land, to have this land primarily for those producers who need to make a move. We don't have it here. We have these specific proposals and shifts, but what I have to say is there are certain proposals that will certainly reverse the situation if we talk about only 400 million kunas of new commitments that will be imposed, just for someone to be forced into one of the authorized laboratories to carry out an analysis. Who are we to impose it? Well, I'm sure every agricultural producer knows best what and how he expects his country to do and to improve its production. No, we're the ones who have to impose it, but with the fact that we haven't created the market, so the prices at which it is offered are too high and at this point if we impose, then we need to free and increase the freedom of those who think they can do that service and the prices will be significantly lower. It's something that's not contained in this part. What we have significantly mentioned is that this is precisely the problem that we agree and open up the possibility of selling land to natural and legal persons coming from the EU and our first neighbours and other countries all seem to make restrictions. I still don't know which way we're going. I wish these amendments had at least been considered, to see how the government is thinking just to leave for a future time, so something's going to happen, I'm talking about the time after 2020, this government won't be, but it's going to be your bill. Think about the fact that a really one space that might create a vacuum might happen and someone might take advantage of it. It is certain that the expectations of agricultural producers were high and most of those of the smallest, OPG, as much as they were said to be the first priority, when we look at this particular article in 36th, at the disposal of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, he set the topic. Yes, there are and there, but it's not exactly those who use it, but others can also micro, can also small, then we're spreading it, then it's not what's been said about the OPGs anymore. And just that propaganda that was that we'd have O.P.G.s as a priority, unfortunately it's not like that anymore. They're here somewhere, we can read them, but it's definitely not gonna be the ones that can. It's been said to be right for cattlemen but we see one part and the stock fund won't be covered. Therefore, there are a lot of reasons for the third reading, your amendments are from this intense debate and amendments that have been accepted, showed that we still need a third reading, therefore here, we hold that the amendment is actually just a political wish that we don't have to show the indeterminateness of the law and enter the third reading and in fact the real need is for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68920	Thank you, too. Is anyone else picking up? If not, I'm closing the argument. We're going to vote on the government's amendments. I am voting on the first amendment of the government, please let's vote. I find that the amendment received 78 votes for, 37 against, so it became an integral part of the law. Amendment number two to the government, please also vote. I also find that this amendment has received a number of votes, of 113, 77 for, 36 against, and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Let's go to amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most of the 102 votes in favour and 11 against the Government's 3rd amendment, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. I now give the Fourth Amendment to the Government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 78 in favour and 36 in favour, and the 4th amendment of the government, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We're going to the 5th Amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that we have adopted the 5th amendment of the government by a majority of votes 76 for and 34 against, and it becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. We now move on to the other amendments, they were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, MP Miro Bulj, the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HSS. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I ask Mr. Tugomir Majdak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, to come and state the government's position on the amendments. We're starting with Amendment number 1 of the Alliance of Independent List Representatives Clubs. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68921	The amendment is not accepted. This is not accepted because the provisions of this law relating to the criteria for the sale of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia are laid down to give priority to the competition and to those engaged in agriculture as a primary activity, at least three years until the publication of a public tender which does not give foreigners the possibility to purchase agricultural land. The law cannot repeal the obligations made by the Republic of Croatia by an international contract. In particular, part of the provision unless the international contract special regulation provides for an exception where such a contract or regulation exists. Furthermore, in the Republic of Croatia, there is a ban on selling agricultural land to foreigners by 2020, and the Ministry of Agriculture will apply in time for an extension of that period by another three years and until 2023, respectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68922	The obviousness of fellow Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68923	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here is also the introduction around the government's amendment, I have made it clear that perhaps we are a truly advanced EU member who has an alternative for our citizens, but if we look at neighbouring countries that have found themselves at risk just to buy large quantities of agricultural land with which the speculation has been compromised were national interests. Also Hungary, which we can often call on to manage the wealth that a certain state has. If they invited the people to the referendum and this people said that unfortunately we cannot accept that anyone who has money comes to our country, buys that land and then manages it in the way it suits him, not the interests of the country in which the land is located. Are we, as the Republic of Croatia, satisfied with your clarification that only state agricultural land... perhaps from that three-year-old somehow made a break. What about private agricultural land where thousands and thousands of hectares are, did we also say that three years cannot be available? No, I don't. It can be handled. And this deadline will pass quickly, today is 2018, we will have a speedy 2020, and then it is only a matter of 2023 whether this provision in the law will be relevant or someone will have to launch a referendum to oppose the European Commission to warn that the way they consider free movement of capital and people is not something that protects Member States' interests. Perhaps some older states from where capital... the area where it will be found, but for us this is acceptable and we are not satisfied with your explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68924	You're asking me to vote? Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number two of my esteemed colleagues, Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68925	The explanation is the same as before, so the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68926	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68927	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment would prohibit the sale of Croatian national resources, i.e. agricultural land to foreigners since 2020. foreign legal and physical persons. The fact is that in Hungary it was the same signature and contracts signed with the EU and that their prime minister then banned buying after the EU commission protest was a referendum. In a referendum with 80% of the people, Hungary said that it is against the sale of national interests in this case of agricultural land because they are aware that food is essential to water and energy as a national resource. The fact that we allow this law to sell national interests. I believe that if a natural person and legal person from Hungary can buy our country agricultural land, and a Croatian citizen within the EU cannot buy, legal and natural persons, they cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary that it is a betrayal of national interests, nothing else and nothing less. My colleagues consider this law by the Croatian Government i.e. I consider this amendment to this law to be at the very least what we must accept. I expect you to think carefully about what we're doing. So far the laws have allowed us to empty Slavonia, to empty Lika, the Dalmatian Zagora, and when we empty out demographically, we allow foreigners to buy it. I'm asking for a vote. If the Hungarians could, the Croats could protect their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68928	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let's go to amendment number three of the SDSS Representatives' Clubs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68929	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68930	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number four of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68931	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68932	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 5. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68933	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68934	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number six of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68935	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68936	And amendment number seven of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68937	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68938	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 8. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68939	The amendment is not accepted, as changes are carried out by administration offices in the county, so local self-government units have no costs in carrying out these procedures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68940	Observation of fellow Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68941	We proposed this amendment that 70% of the income go to local self-government units and 30% to the state. We want to strengthen the units of local self-government in a fiscal sense so that they can also implement a programme of national agricultural, tendering, etc. There are also a number of costs for managing state agricultural land, and also here at re-purpose we think that part of the income should belong to local self-government units and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68942	Let's vote on an HSS amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The ninth amendment is an amendment to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68943	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68944	It becomes an integral part of the law. Eleventh is SDSS's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68945	The amendment shall be adopted in the amended form in a way that is to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68946	An indication of the applicant. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68947	We accept the modified form proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68948	The amendment then becomes an integral part of the law in changed form. Twelve Advocacy Club of the Living Wall and the Power Force.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68949	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's view is that the 25-year lease period with the possibility of an extension for the same period, so for a total of 50 years, is an appropriate period for the tenants to be given safety and the possibility to carry out their agricultural activity on that land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68950	An obvious colleague of the Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68951	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So we think that the 25-year deadline is too short for permanent plantations. It is only after 25 years that they come into full birth, and for this reason we believe that the lease time should be extended to 40 years. We're asking for an amendment to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68952	Let's vote on an amendment to the Living Wall and the Power Force that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment No 13. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68953	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. It is accepted in a modified form in a way that reads: “The rental committee shall appoint the representative body of the units of local self-government or the city of Zagreb, which shall consist of five members of one representative of the legal, geodetic and agronomic profession, and two representatives of the unit of local self-government, or the city of Zagreb, in whose territory the land is located.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68954	Observation of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68955	Thank you very much. I'd just like to ask the promoter if I can read our proposal one more time, so without this opening part. What is crucial is that one of these two representatives of the municipal and city council, that is, the City Assembly of Zagreb, whose area of land is situated and which states that one must be appointed from the order of the opposition. Did you manifest yourself about being out of the ranks of the opposition someone would be or not be? I mean, what you are is just a representative if most of it works in the council, then most of it's probably from the local self-government that appoints. So, what you've been changing at all, you haven't really referred to what's a key change. So here I find it incomprehensible that you're going to change something, and that what our proposal was not to be seen at all. So that change you suggested absolutely does not match what we suggested. We can't accept this, and I'm asking for this amendment to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68956	We've had a similar situation once before. So you're not accepting this amendment but asking to vote on your proposal? All right, then, let's join the vote on the amendment in its form as proposed by the club of representatives of the independent lists, and in this form, the government has not accepted the amendment. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to Amendment 14 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68957	The amendment is not accepted, as each individual criterion for the exercise of the right of the championship referred to in Article 36 contains provisions that the tenderer must comply with in order to exercise the right of the championship under that criterion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68958	Observation of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68959	Thank you very much. So with this amendment, we have made it clear that we believe that the natural, legal persons participating in the competition should primarily have the highest priority of those involved in agricultural production. One detail that is also listed here, which is that legal persons are up to the rank of micro-enterprises. In the government amendment that you have proposed, you have actually interpreted it in your own way and made it clear that they still have the right to the championship of the person who deals primarily with production. Now we've really come up with that one detail, and that's these small businesses, given that there are other amendments that will be here next behind us, the Living Wall that has the same amendment, I'm going to say we're going to withdraw this amendment of ours. So you responded in part, but I can also say immediately that we will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Living Wall to show that you simply did not fully adopt what several amendments to the opposition proposed by withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68960	You're withdrawing the amendment, then there's no need to vote on it, so let's go to Amendment number 15, the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68961	The amendment is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the criteria do not want to exclude small enterprises that are in need of agricultural land in view of the number of conditional throats of cattle and agricultural areas. Part of the amendment relating to agriculture as primary activity has been partially accepted through Amendment 5. Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68962	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68963	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, that you have partially accepted our amendment, I thank you, but I must also say that it is not the same basic and primary activity. Namely you have changed our words a little, the basic activity would practically be the only one and the primary would be the first within other activities. But well, regardless, it is important to point out that you allow small businesses to compete with the OPGs and they have essentially a privileged position because in fact their activities cannot be compared in any way. In fact, most OPGs have a value of up to 200,000 euros and less than 10 employees, and these employees are usually family members while small businesses, according to your definition, involve a company with 50 employees with a value of 10 million euros. So tell us, do you really believe that in Croatia there is a small company worth 10 million euros or 75 million kuna? Among other things, therefore, you allow this to make agricultural land speculators, so people whose agricultural activity is not basic but according to your words, let's now be primary, but therefore enables different people who are not basically farmers to acquire this agricultural land and essentially destroy small producers. I would also like to stress that this amendment is in line with several farmers' associations and with the opinions of farmers throughout the Republic of Croatia which your law in the proposed form completely rejects and considers it harmful. For this reason, I ask to vote on this amendment, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68964	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't receive the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 16, House of Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68965	The amendment is not accepted. It is contrary to the proposal's concept and it is two essentially different conditions that cannot be put in the same order of the right of the championship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68966	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68967	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we cannot accept your argument because if the goal of the Republic of Croatia is to preserve life in our villages, if it is indeed a strategic branch of industry, if this law is as the minister has announced for the OPGs, then you should have accepted this amendment because it is the only way to save the OPGs and you know for yourself that in the register of the last ten years there are 20,000 less registered in the OPGs register, that 870 are blocked with 400 and some million kunas and in this way if they remain in the same rank with small businesses, the basis of the regulations that will be brought by the minister and which we will not see, they will get small businesses points both on the number of employees and on the mechanization and on the processing facilities and I believe it will be so. And then do they have a chance at small O.P.G.s? They don't. That's why we asked for small businesses to be left out in this article in 36th, to lower them in rank. Thank you for accepting that weighting a part of agriculture is their basic activity and income, but that's not enough to protect the OPGs. In this way, there will be no OPGs, there is real fear on the ground that because of this law and the rules that the minister will adopt, the OPGs that have worked for 10, 20 years, will be left without the country and will be blocked and the road to Germany or another European country will be again. If you want such a Croatia, do you want such a Slavonia because these 870 are blocked, over 50% is from Slavonia. I'm asking you, where's the chance for the O.P.G., there's no way out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68968	Are you asking for a vote? Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the amendment enough votes, so let's go to Amendment 17. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68969	The amendment shall be accepted in the amended form. The amendment shall be accepted in an amended form in such a way as to read: “For the insurance of the contracted obligations referred to in paragraph 9 of this Article, at the cost of placing agricultural land in the function of agricultural production and paragraph 11 of this Article, for the agricultural land of an area of more than 10 hectares of the ten hectare of the ten-year leaser who is a legal person is obliged to submit a binding letter of intent to the bank in addition to the offer and to place a bank guarantee when entering into a leaser’s contract. The tenant, who is a natural person, is obliged to attach the debtor’s debt to the leaser’s contract.”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68970	I can't help but notice the confused faces of my fellow living wallmates, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68971	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, here after 15 months he calls 9th. Parliament, you have finally, the ruling majority accepted one amendment to the Living Wall. I have to admit, I'm surprised that no matter what you accept it in a changed form, so I'm not asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68972	So you don't accept an explanation, stay with your people or I don't understand you well? You're not looking, and thank you. [[Attack Bunjac: We accept in changed form and do not ask for a vote.]] We're going to Amendment 18 of the Independent Lists' Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68973	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant's position is to enable renting and land which is not land-booked, mined and grown. Demining operations can only be performed by persons authorised for demining operations, and the tenant is admitted to possession only after the issue of an appropriate certificate from the Croatian Mine Action Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68974	Observation of fellow Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68975	The secretary of state in your clarification is clear that you want the mined land that the state was obliged to demining where no means or time was found, especially the one that could be brought to the agricultural use, there was no means to demine, and now you will transfer that obligation to the agricultural producer to whom you will rent. First, let's talk security. You are certain that someone will wait for the demining to take place if it's mine suspicious or maybe they'll go to luck and process it, so one day they'll get a certificate. So that means intro. I also met with such a practice personally where someone could get hurt because people want to process it. And on the other hand, if we look at demining costs, they're extremely large. Someone instead of a state who hasn't found the funds will need to engage their own funds to then wait for the exploitation when it comes back. I don't think that's correct, I'd agree with the intention of going to the mined land if someone who's interested in taking a priority demining came forward, so let's get him into the land that's ready for use and I think it's a government obligation. In this way, we put high risks, security risks, and we give to farmers who need to deal with basic agricultural production a new task, which is to talk, negotiate with companies that deminingly enter into it at which prices, under which conditions, in which order, very many issues are raised. We're mostly not happy with your clarification or this article and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68976	Let's also vote on this amendment to the Alliance of Independent Lists Club. The government doesn't accept it. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 19 is the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68977	The amendment is not accepted. By law, the proposed allocation of funds finds the justification that the Republic of Croatia, as owner, is incometing adequate assets from real estate in its possession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68978	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68979	Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. We do not accept your argument because in our amendment, we have foreseen the revenue of the state budget of 10% and we believe that that is enough. Since the intensity of this law is that units of local and regional self-government implement this law on the ground, so the units of local self-government have extra costs, we said within 90 days they have to make a programme available to state agricultural land, and that takes time and money needs money. They must call a tender, have that cost, commission, choice, introduction into possession, year-long ministry reporting has increased costs. And that is why we think and here I call on the present mayors, mayors to accept this amendment because 75% of the income from the sale of leases and concessions would go to the local self-government unit, not 65% as you suggested, 15% to the regional self-government, not 10% as you suggested, because regional self-government will also have the costs for those units of local self-government that don't do the job for them, and I don't see any reason why the state budget should have more than 10%, and that way you wouldn't break the incomes of the Ministry of Agriculture, and you would only be able to strengthen the fiscal capacities of municipalities, cities and cities. And I think it's a good proposal and I need to accept it and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68980	Let's vote on this amendment to the HSS. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 20 of the SDSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68981	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68982	It's becoming an integral law. Amendment 21 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68983	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68984	It's becoming an integral law. Amendment number 22 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68985	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68986	It's becoming an integral law. Amendment 23 A Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the Powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68987	The amendment is not accepted because the position of the applicant is to sell only smaller cadastral particles up to 10 hectares for the continental area and up to 1 hectare for the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68988	Do you want to be obvious? Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68989	Dear Representative of the Government. Well, the thing is, there's no reason to limit the purchase of the area of the cadastral particle to 10 hectares for the continental and 1 hectare for the coastal areas, if in paragraph 2 is allowed to purchase up to 50 hectares or 5 hectares, respectively. There is no point in limiting the area of the cadastral buying particle, especially if the same limits with the economy itself or are the technological elements which are in the production function within the meaning of this law. What's this about? This current proposal does not limit purchases to 10 hectares of surface but only requires that particles be more fragmented. It makes more sense for us that if a larger area is already allowed, if you can buy up to 50 acres to go to be in general, not to buy 50 split hectares. I think it's in the interest of today's agricultural production to gather the particles, not to buy 50 acres of spray. I think your explanation is inconclusive, that there is no, as you would say, that there is no cover in common sense, let's say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68990	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68991	We're looking for a vote to see what your state of consciousness is like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68992	Then let's check the state of consciousness of parliamentary deputies and vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to number 24. It's an HSS rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68993	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the applicant as well as the previous amendment is to sell only smaller cadastral particles of up to 10 hectares, for the continental area and up to 1 hectare for the coast.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68994	A colleague of Vlaović's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68995	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, we do not accept your argument, because if you accepted our proposal from the rental maximum, that the unit of local self-government, through its programme, defines the maximum lease, we do not see why and here at the sale, if the maximum on the continent is up to 50 hectares, you did not allow the unit of local self-government, through its programme to be available, as is written in the explanation of our amendment, to define the production units. And to enable our agricultural producers to purchase up to 50 hectares, but according to the programme, the availability of municipalities, which also have to leave one part of the particles for sale in their programme. Then why limit them to only putting particles up to 10 acres? And I told him if you have a ten-hectare board and you want to buy a neighbor who's 11 acres, this is how you make it impossible for them. So where is our desire to crown the property, to have technologically and agronomically cheaper, quality production, than to limit them in this way, I don't see a reason for it. But within 50 units of local self-government, it defines through its programme which production units are suitable for sale and for which it will call a tender for sale. I think you should have accepted this amendment as you accepted the lease. Thank you. Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68996	Let's vote on this amendment to the HSS that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 25. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68997	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68998	There's an integral part of the law. And Amendment number 26. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u68999	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69000	And he becomes an integral part of the law. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Agricultural Land Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 49 votes against the law on agricultural land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69001	And now, here we were very efficient, half seven is at night, we're going to move on to the second point. We're done with the first act. The second point is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 168. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Rule 197 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Tugomir Majdak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69002	I thank you, honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, which, on behalf of the motionary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, means I have the honour to present to you. And in the framework lines, I will present what this final Act on Croatia is bringing to the agricultural and forestry advisory service. According to the Croatian Institute of Statistics, I will remind all respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The educational structure of persons engaged in agricultural activity in the Republic of Croatia is very low, only 4.66% of farmers have agricultural education, while 95% of PG holders have only practical experience. If we add to this the fact that there is no formal education and professional training programme in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to regulate the system for consulting farmers, fishermen and forest owners, in order to raise the degree of their expertise and competence to apply the obligations arising from the EU legal framework, which will not only enable better management of economies, but also greater efficiency in the use of financial resources, which are available to them and greater competitiveness in the activities they carry out. The proposed law intends to create a legal framework for the implementation of the consultation system, by regulating the work of the territory of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service in accordance with EU rules, which will encourage the use of the advisory system and assist users in assessing the results and their economies. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. As regards the required management requirements, good agricultural and environmental conditions, agricultural practices useful for climate and the environment, and measures aimed at modernising, developing competitiveness, innovation, market orientation and promoting entrepreneurship. The users of the advisory system are farmers, forest owners as well as fishermen, who carry out activities in the area of the Republic of Croatia and are users of support under the common agricultural policy, and common fisheries policy, and can also benefit farmers from forest owners and fishermen, who are not beneficiaries of support under the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. The intention to regulate the system, consult, provide professional support to those who use it to improve sustainable management of the overall result of their operations in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. To young farmers, fishermen and forest owners, the advisory system will facilitate the start of business and the development of economic activities and the development of short supply chains, adaptation to climate change, organic farming and health aspects of production. Greater expertise and capacity to carry out activities will also contribute to faster achievement of EU standards and better use of EU funds, reflecting the financial impact on agriculture, forestry, fisheries and the growth of employment in these activities of competitiveness growth and strengthening the economy. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, since the established consultative service infrastructure available to the necessary administrative capacity and technology support will be used to facilitate the education and transfer of knowledge to users. In relation to the current Law on the Advisory Service, this law more precisely regulates the competence of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Services to consult on commitments on the agricultural holding in accordance with the regulatory requirements of governance and good agricultural and environmental conditions, agricultural practices useful for the climate and the environment, measures on the agricultural holding provided for rural development programmes for modernisation, the development of competitiveness of sectoral integration, innovation, market orientation and the promotion of entrepreneurship, water protection requirements, requirements for the professional use of plant protection funds, minimum requirements laid down national rules on multiple compliance and information related to climate change mitigation and adaptation. As regards the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Croatia, the final proposal for a law has been amended in accordance with the comments made and proposals of the Committee on Legislatives. The proposal of the Legislative Committee has been adopted and the provisions of Articles 4 and 10 have been nootechnically developed and the possibility of special laws to regulate and other matters to be carried out by the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service as a public activity has been left. All other comments and proposals have already been properly governed by this law or are beyond the scope of the subject matter of the regulation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69003	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Paninic will be the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69004	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Secretary of State, associates. Today, here we have really had a heated debate over one important law. Somehow this Law on Agriculture and Forestry Advisory would come to say like that in the late hours, but all those who know what the task of service is on the ground realize how important it is. Not only is it important that we have people on the ground but it is very important that they are professional, teamed, available. And it is precisely this availability that you may need to talk more about than the service itself in the way it is shaped now is that everyone wants to see that the market conditions change, how management in the agricultural sector becomes more dynamic, how competition grows, that they too adapt, that sometimes we are not within the working time prescribed for them rather than really at their service, that they are present to know, that in the end they are not advisers of farmers but at one time in family, OPG and that they are not only creating their own service in these conditions which are in rural areas in a way to help make this agricultural production come about but also to be quality members of society and to help develop rural areas in which it works. So the challenges of this new time that come before the advisory service are certainly the challenges of this law that are being proposed today. Of course, we will all remember the moments when our service and help us, it helped fill out a number of forms that were to be filled out, to apply for payment rights, some economic programs, and all of this together does in some way a symbiosis between the manufacturer and the links to both the ministry and other services. Therefore, in this law, we will not find grudges as such, it is partly harmonised, part of the desire to be more functional, it is an assumption with which the ministry is instigating this. What we only expect after the adoption of this law that will be passed on Friday, here we will also give our support in that part, but afterwards we expect the services to be even more agile, even faster, even more fluid to function. Both at the end and from you, since you provide financial resources as a Government, to provide sufficient resources so that they can carry out all their tasks. I often remember the example when I was in the police when it came to the fact that there wasn't any photocopier paper, and then the excuse was that it was gone I wasn't going to say any harder words, but there was no photocopier paper, and then you get to write a report, and there's no paper on which you're going to write. Let's not sometimes realize, here I have recently listed another case, which is that in elementary schools they are looking for teachers and also schools to bring toilet paper to their parents. Therefore, the service that needs to be one of the supporting ones, which should be closely linked to farmers, will ultimately need to assist them in reporting land tenders to a number of rural development measures, all that makes them operational. Do not let this service be offended that the best people are leaving, but that they are really pillars that will help make agricultural production in Croatia. Of course that knowledge transfer is very important, to be professional, to be able to say not politically colored but really in that part to be recognized by people as someone who helps everyone, to every single person who needs help. If the service is based on these foundations and in this new structure with a new name, then you will have the support of all representatives of the bridge club of independent lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69005	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Bulj on your display, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69006	Thank you very much. Well, I'd agree with you if you needed an advisory service. However, this law before we have passed, the fact that there will be more people working in advisory services than we have farmers and OPGs, that is a fact and that is unfortunate. And every advisory service since 2020 will have to have a translator, because at least there will be Croatian agricultural land owned by Croatian citizens, and if they do not accept our amendment as we have given in Hungary that there is no purchase, then the owners cannot be agricultural land foreigners. I really believe that professional people, but I don't know who they'll be able to do with their guilt, who they'll be able to give advice to if 90% of the village is extinct. Only those foreigners who will buy the country if it is not this one, if this bill remains accepted on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69007	The answer of the respected representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69008	Dear fellow Bull, recently here we have followed all who have had the opportunity to read in Leader's coefficient. They did research called clientelism coefficient. And what actually showed is that unfortunately Lika-Senj County and my county have the largest number, actually employees in public services, public services compared to those in the real sector. And that's why, with fear, we're always sort of setting ourselves up to any form of increasing the number of people in public service. Sometimes we should really consider what is really needed on the ground, which is the structure of people. What I'm most afraid of, and that's when it starts filling up exclusively on party keys, when it starts filling up on some family keys. And what we don't actually have is a selection of quality. It doesn't mean that someone's child is in position today, so his child has finished the Faculty of Agronomics that he is the best candidate at work in the advisory service. In the advisory service, people who have a profession, who have been in the real sector, who know problems and who know and have tools and authority in the end to connect, to say these political ones too, to call them institutions with those needs that agricultural producers have on the ground. And of course that's where we need to make sure that we don't get all the counties to come into the coefficient that one-on-one. So for every real sector worker, that we have one in public, because then we didn't help the real sector anymore, we didn't even help the agricultural producer. Then we cut them off through all kinds of other intrusions. So sometimes quality is important. We can suffer to some extent the quantity, but not excessively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69009	Thank you. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Liposjak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69010	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, Director Tušek, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forestry Advisory Service, which is in fact harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. As we have seen between the first reading and this final proposal of the law, there have been no significant changes and other than those that are more or less let's say nomotechnical nature. The agricultural advisory services themselves in Europe are an important factor in achieving national strategies for the development of agriculture and the achievement of the common agricultural policy. The importance of consultative activity is also defined through European legislation, which provides for a system of consultation for each Member State to carry out these activities of information and education by manufacturers. As far as Croatia is concerned, the very beginnings of the agricultural consultation range back in the post-World War II period when the so-called so-called country was founded throughout the country. agricultural cells which have remained in one of these forms until isolation. Agricultural Advisory Service was established in 1991. In 1994, the Agriculture and Forestry Department was founded. In this form, the service works until '97. the year of the establishment of the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory. Based on certain examples and recommendations, this institution joined the Agricultural Chamber in 2010 which was founded a little earlier in February 2009. After only two years, the Advisory Service is detached from the Agricultural Chamber and is again an independent institution as defined in the 2012 Agricultural Advisory Service Act. After that, the Law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service was adopted in 2013, and one of the most significant changes was the accession of workers and, in fact, of the former forest advisory services. The forest advisory service itself was established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in June 2006 as a specialised public institution for the performance of public authority tasks, as well as the promotion of forest management and forest land in forests of forest owners, or in private forests, as we like to say. She provided free advisory services and through the exercise of public powers helped users to manage and improve the state of private forest properties in the Republic of Croatia, while her users were forest owners, forest owners associations, and units of local and regional self-government. In addition, the ministry changed its name to an advisory, a name that was eventually characterized as let’s say in general to the people a rather unrecognizable name. All these events within 25 years have shown that manufacturers need and want a stable advisory facility that can provide support at any time. In line with the positive experiences of EU countries, the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 defines a new position of the consultative service taking over a broader framework of responsibilities and powers and thus further valorising its work. The system for consulting users in the management of land and the management of the agricultural economy is one of the constituent elements in the implementation of a common EU agricultural policy managed by certain public or private bodies. This legislative proposal regulates the system of consultation in agriculture and forestry and the work of advisory services as a specialised public institution for the operation of advisory services in agriculture, fisheries and forestry. How important and necessary the system for consulting forest owners, farmers and fishermen, the data of the State Statistics Office also tells us. The educational structure of persons engaged in agricultural activity in the Republic of Croatia is very low. As we have already had the opportunity to hear, only 5% of farmers have agricultural education while the remaining 95% have a mostly practical experience. In addition to the current lack of an informal education and professional training programme, such a consultation system shall be offered in response to raising the expertise and skills necessary to meet the prescribed requirements. Better governance and greater efficiency in the use of financial resources are the ultimate objective of this system. I must stress here that it is necessary to ensure regular training of consultants and systems and, in fact, the synergy of all institutions responsible for agriculture, forestry and fisheries and for environmental protection with the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. We all aim at making better use of EU funds, and without these funds, we will find it difficult to raise competitiveness and modernise production. This is exactly where the educational and professional training of Croatian agricultural and forestry advisory staff will be. The proposed law establishes a legal framework for the implementation of the system for consulting the work and responsibilities of the advisory service for the implementation of the EU Regulation. European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of 13 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 338, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The advice should also include safety standards at work or standard safety related to the agricultural holding, as well as specific advice for farmers, fishermen and forest owners who first start their business. He would especially point out that most of the studies and most of the world-wide research have just included the interests of farmers, fishermen and foresters among the 10 most dangerous ones in life. In forestry, we often work in locations that are far from inhabited areas, there is a great risk of injuries by means of labor, but it is also a great danger from insects, snakes, other animals and weather problems. Farmers are exposed to frequent handling of plant protection products that are mainly extremely health-threatening, especially if they are not handled according to the rules of the profession. The environment and working conditions of fishermen also do not leave us too much room for mistakes. As a result, raising the safety standards at work is also very important and often saves lives even though we sometimes take it lightly. What this law aims to achieve is to assist farmers, forest owners and fishermen in assessing the results of their economies and to find the necessary improvements for the purpose of modernising, innovation and more competitive business. Users and farmers who do not receive support under the common policy may be used by a system for consulting farmers on a voluntary basis. Also personally as a graduate engineer of forestry and a person who comes from a profession that has more than 250 years of long organised history of forestry, I must express my satisfaction that in the name of the service, the adjective of the "smarska" has been returned, both because of the scope of the services that the service performs and because of the very tradition of the forest advisory service. I personally hope that in the future we will be able to do similar things at the level of the ministries. And in the end as well as after the first reading, just a few suggestions and reactions from field service employees. They all welcome the kind of proposal and effects that will come from it. They also stress the need for any additional means to be used to equip individual premises in which these investments in work equipment especially for field work. Of course, the HDZ Representatives' Club will look forward to this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69011	Thank you. We have a replica of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69012	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, you have moved me to the replica in fact using the word “strategics”. And I have to repeat that we don't have a strategy in agriculture as well as in forest management. And we think too little strategically. And again from this law but from a number of others, you can't see in the end where we want to go with our forest management, whether we want to be just the raw material base we are now and how we want to encourage production, processing, etc. But what was particularly entrenched to me in this bill of law, namely when this advisory service was established, had a director and two deputies. Now, the service will have a director and six assistants, letters and figures, and I'd like to hear from the secretary of state, if it's just about party reluctance and entanglement and not actually the efficiency of the service, because if the service could function with two deputy directors, I don't see why it takes 4 more now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69013	The reply of the respected representative of Liposcian.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69014	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, first of all this law is not really there to define certain strategies both in agriculture and forestry, but I agree with you that one long-term strategy is both in agriculture and in forestry, not that it is important, but it is necessary. As far as forestry itself is concerned, we can say such short-term strategies, what we often try to highlight in this Croatian Assembly that when we talk about forestry, we have private, we have state forests. Both private and state-owned forests are subject to management programmes, i.e. the basics of management that prescribe both the management and the protection of forests, and in fact all compliance with all the legislation currently in force. As for the assistants and the number of staff, I would not personally enter into it, I think it is at the level of the ministry and at the service level to organise themselves in a way that is most effective and best suited to them at a given time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69015	The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Tomic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69016	Thank you, Vice President. Respected representatives of the ministry, according to reasons for the adoption of this law, are being adopted in order to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with that of the EU which is not quite true. In Article 4(2), which describes advisory activities, only points 1 relating to the provision of expert advice and the promotion of knowledge in the field of agriculture, fisheries and forestry and point 2 of the technical and technological improvement of agricultural economies is consistent with that of EU legislation. Points 3 to 12 are not, and especially those 5 to 12 relating to forest counselling in which legal ownership exists because there is no common strategy for forestry in the EU. And this proposal does not show at all the positive things that this law will have on Croatian forestry. So far, we have witnessed that under the cover of compliance with European legislation, and this particularly applies to agriculture and livestock, the amendments to the law have had a negative impact on our farmers. In addition, under the description of the work of the advisory service, it could be called the forest advisory service because it mainly deals with counselling in forestry, forest owners' forests. Under point 4 of the same paragraph, it would be good to specify which integrated production is supervised by the service. Furthermore, Article 8(2) states that the President and three members of the Governing Council shall appoint and resolve the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Agriculture and Forestry. We believe that this should be done only after the public tender has been carried out in accordance with EU directives. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The question is why and why do we need a deputy director and is this a new moment in taking care of party personnel? When the service was established we had a director and two assistant directors, according to counterpart Hajdukovic, we now have 6 assistants for agriculture, forestry, rural development, co-ordination of branch work, information and general affairs. Wouldn't three assistants be enough, and let's say, for agriculture, forestry and general affairs, with one of them being appointed as vice principal in his absence? In the same article, paragraph 5 provides that the Director, the Deputy Director, with the rest must have at least five years of work experience in the profession, because of the specificity of the profession, and you know it best. The results of the professional work can only be visible after 10 and more years. We think it's too small and they should have these 10 years of experience. Article 11(1) provides that the service may have an expert council. It might be wise to limit the number of these people to five, for example, if what is needed besides the experts who work in the ministry. Currently, the section has 17 members who receive compensation, and the question is how useful they are and whether they are really necessary. To conclude, I would say this, the goal that we should stick to despite the fact that we do not have a strategy is that we have a sustainable use of the forest in the Republic of Croatia and to improve the quality of the products that the forests give. Total surface area, it is very important to emphasize for those who may not know it in the Republic of Croatia under the forests are 2.5 million hectares or almost 47% of total land surfaces. More than two million of these 2.5 are under Croatian forests, 500 thousand in private forest owners. That is why this law has great meaning for the forestry of the Republic of Croatia and therefore we believe that it should be adopted in a way that would serve the above-mentioned objective to improve the quality development of forestry. Unfortunately, we don't see it from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69017	We have one replica of the respected representative of Liposchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69018	Just a brief review of what you said, that you can't see positive things that will affect forestry in this case or this legislative proposal. I cannot agree with you here, namely from the funds of the common agricultural policy, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development is also funded, and this fund is being co-financed and the work of the Agricultural-Forest Advisory Service is being carried out, and thanks to that, let's say, the injection remains for all farmers and forest owners free of charge. As you yourself have said, accessibility for both forest owners and farmers through advice, through education is very important and I think that this law provides a lot of positive things, and it will not have any effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69019	The answer of the respected representative, Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69020	Thanks, buddy. You see, you think I can't see what I see, and I don't think you see good as well as you think I don't see good. But joke aside. Well, I agree more or less with everything you've said. We're going in some direction, we want to change something, I don't think it's quite the core, but I'll remind you of the advice and the educations have existed before. You can't say that like it wasn't before now we'll suddenly have advice and education with the law, and we haven't even advised anyone before or educated anyone. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69021	Thank you very much. The individual debate will be the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll grow up to be brief, just a few observations about the law. So I'll agree with my colleague, Liposčak, and with my colleague Tomic, I think we should approach this problem more strategically. Forest good and the very quantity of land that we have under the woods is one of the larger ones in Europe, so this is definitely what we have with water and we need to take special care of. And I think it's because if I'm not mistaken, it's about 70% if not more forest is owned by the state or the state's lords. I think a strategy in this sense would help us a lot, then also to you as a ministry, but also to us as a general state as I said we know which direction we're going in because I think we can all agree, we don't want to be a raw material base, so we want to be a producer in the wood industry. My two doubts, or one suggestion, and the other question about the law is with the director and six assistants or deputies, I think it's really too much, that it's hyperproduction and red tape of the service itself. The other thing to think about is whether it's really a farm-smart service or just a forest-sanitary service, but in any case, I think two deputies or one director are more than enough. This now gives the impression that this is only about party entanglement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. but what I would ask myself is, what with the forest fishing economy, or, I would suggest, my suggestion would be, the proposer, since this can happen before the vote, to add beyond the word to the agricultural sector, to forestry and fishing. Then I think we'd have everything in one place and then this article would be very clear. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69023	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69024	Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural, Forestry and Advisory Service, second reading, P.Z. No. 168. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural, Forestry and Advisory Service, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 82 for, 33 abstentions and 1 against, were passed by the Law on the Croatian Agricultural, Forestry and Advisory Service.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69025	We're moving on to the next law. And that's: - Final proposal of the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Sights, second reading, P.Z. No. 190. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Zeljko Kraljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69026	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of us, the proposal of the Law on Wooden Cultures is short-circuited. This law creates conditions for the production of biomass from short-circuit cultures, as a renewable and environmentally acceptable energy. The final draft law, in relation to the first-reading law, other than trees, also allows for the cultivation of non-woody plants, of the same applicable functions. The maximum breeding period shall be extended on agricultural land from 16 to 20 years and shall open the possibility of extending that period if conditions are established for that purpose. And as foreseen in the first draft bill, the maximum surface area of 10 hectares was abolished as one of the restrictions. Furthermore, it is possible to put into office, hardened and mature, of the rest of farmland, categorization 5 3, which is a newspaper in this now final draft of the law. Then forest land on which there is no plan to raise forest plantations and other agricultural land categorization as PSH land. We believe that with this bill of law, we will create one new agricultural production, which was mass production in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69027	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the first one will be spoken by a respected representative, Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69028	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I welcome the representatives of the ministry and colleagues and colleagues. So, the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Watches, here, we heard about the reasons for the adoption, therefore, renewable energy sources, commitments and EU 20 strategies that have passed so far. We're in a new era by the time we're 20. So what we're talking about today is even more strongly in this problem, so we're talking about the reality of Europe's transition to low carbon societies. And that is why Member States are required to, in fact, integrate national energy and climate policy. So policies need to be integrated, because these things are connected, so the goals, I remind 20 20 20, so relations are from 2020 we were supposed to achieve 20% of renewable sources. So by 20% to cut emissions, today we're talking about 40, 27, 30, so the larger numbers are important because dynamics, the change in the environment, are simply imposing. So the Paris Agreement and everything that comes with it actually requires member states to be as active as possible in all areas. And so, in fact, there are incomprehensible restrictions, which we can see that something has been removed. A limited particle size issue has been removed, right? However, there are still some restrictions, on the type of soil and on the time limit for holding culture, from 16 to 20, to the possibility of extending. So all of this together is a restriction, which instead of being followed by the incentive of this activity, and the law states, something that restricts, therefore, the willingness of entrepreneurs to do so. And that's what they do, because they have to be except that it matches the goals, so ours, so that's what we do, it has to match their economic qualities of the job. That's why I don't think it's a good idea for these restrictions to remain. I'm actually going to remind you, because it might be that there's not enough insight, so why was this mass important? However, there is a constant mention of bio mass as energy. So, bio mass, short-circuit, culture, fast-growing wood mass, pellet production, therefore, heating, and this job is uncultured as regards CO2 emissions, because it's a short-lived CO2 that's being broadcast, it was actually absorbed by the growth of that plant. But I think that they ignore one other aspect, that's what I was talking about in the second reading, which is, wood as construction material, and I don't know why we're afraid of it, and we're limiting those cycles because these wood species are able to grow in size in a few years that corresponds to material that is successfully used as construction material. What about greenhouse gas emissions then? So then it's not neutral but it's negative, or it's, it's a sink for CO2, it's sequestration or bonding or I've seen it write storage somewhere. Maybe it's not a great term. So, it's tied to CO2 in cellulose, into wood, and when we build wooden houses then they last 50 years and it's 50 years stored CO2 and it's much better than burning it. I mean, it's much better. Burning is neutral. That's much better than fossil fuels, but this is even better. And I know personally that I have heard the plans of certain European countries that are planning to do very much in this area, so they are thinking of building whole cities of wood and thus significantly repairing the balance, so carbon dioxide, i.e. greenhouse gases, and we are completely ignoring it, and we are not actually neglecting it, but are also preventing this time limit, because here we are afraid that these cultures will prevail, and in fact we should leave it to the market, especially those of us who have over 500 000 hectares, so unprocessed agricultural areas. I can't figure it out, i.e. understand what would be the reason for fear and insisting on these limitations or is it an ovivity of species. I think the services that care about it do it in a good way and we don't have to be afraid of the invasion, that they will ban those species that are invasive. The damages are also the wrong thesis. So there's no fear. So we should support that activity to the maximum possible extent. Is it perhaps the preservation of some monopoly or special status of Croatian forests that they can appear as a more significant player here? Well, I guess not. If it is, it doesn't make sense. Let's fire those restrictions, because we're going to be supporting it very soon anyway. Let it be this close to being economically attractive. So here I propose that the Proposer consider further abolishing, removing these restrictions that have remained in the legislative proposal, and then it will indeed serve the purpose it is intended for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69029	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Damir Felak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69030	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here's the ninth hour of the debate I think point three. The final proposal for a law on woody short-circuit cultures proposes to define and regulate the area of establishment and cultivation of wooden and other short-circuit cultures. As stated in the law aimed at creating conditions for the production of biomass from cultures as a renewable and environmentally acceptable energy on the principles of economic sustainability, social responsibility and environmental acceptability. The law aims to contribute to the energy and economic development of the Republic of Croatia by using additional national energy sources. This law also aims to boost economic activity and further encourage the use of forest and abandoned agricultural land to produce biomass. The Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU has assumed the commitments defined by the Europe 2020 Strategy, which represents a 10-year strategic plan for growth and job creation in the EU launched in 2010. One of the main objectives of the strategy is the area of climate change and energy sustainability, with particular emphasis on reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990, and the goal of obtaining 20% of energy from renewable sources, means 2020. The new EU energy package for the period up to 2030 is one of the three main objectives of the energy package is to achieve global leadership in renewable energy. The European Council found that in the EU's 2030 total energy consumption, renewable energy has a share of at least 27% of what is binding at EU level. The same package also proposes to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40% compared to the period from 2030 to 1990. Biomass plays a key role among renewable energy sources, and records a steady increase. In the future, the demand for wood as energy for heating and electricity production is expected to rise. This law should help achieve the objectives and obligations mentioned above and manage further development of the potential of agricultural and forest land. As for the provisions of the law itself, I can agree with some of the things Mr. Dobrović said. Now I think that some restrictions are simply in the law and are not necessary, but I believe that in time it will change. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law of allowed species to be shortened. It's been put down for a year. I think it should be reduced to at least six months. And I also welcome these changes that came from the first reading to the second reading, but the key change is that the meaning of this law may not be more affected by the very name of the law now, because this is where we introduce the law and other plant cultures, not just wooden cultures. But despite these, I think that this can and later change the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69031	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Queen, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law regulates the establishment, cultivation and use of woody or other plant cultures, short periods for the purpose of creating conditions for the production of bio-mass from cultures as renewable and environmentally acceptable energy products on the principles of economic sustainability, social responsibility and eco-acceptability. In this respect, Article 3 of the List of Species states that the establishment and cultivation of cultures must be used by the native but also by the foreign plant species, including their cross-breeds. It is stated in paragraph 3 that the list of indigenous and foreign plant species including their cross-breeds authorised to be used for the establishment of cultures on agricultural or forest land, the length of patrols and the methods and conditions under which cultures can be grown are determined by a regulation to be adopted by the Minister responsible for agriculture and forestry matters, with the prior consent of the Minister of Nature and Environment Protection. I remind you colleagues and colleagues that the rules do not go into debate in the House but are prescribed by the Minister, there this House will be suspended for possible what I fear irregularities, when they or the dubious ones are made when the rules are passed. I'll remind you that from the Ministry of Agriculture, it doesn't go to you personally, Secretary of State, but some rules have come out that we've been in "war", a trade war with neighbors, and in general I don't have much confidence when certain things are solved by the rules especially in this government that a good document will be produced. Therefore, why this is the case, it is explained in the session of the Committee on Agriculture where it is proposed that the list of species be an integral part of the law and that, in the light of the fact that, if so prescribed by law, not regulation, the list of acceptable species can be updated regularly and in step with new scientific and professional knowledge and thus, to include new species on the list will not be necessary to amend the law and also in the event that a particular species from the list shows its adverse impact on the environment of the Republic of Croatia, it will be possible to quickly respond and delete the same from the list and prevent further damage to the environment and nature. In the light of the reasons why the law is adopted in paragraph 4, the emerging species such as soup, chestnut, beige, acacia and others are listed but are not listed in my intimate opinion which makes this law the most adopted, which is a pauling, or Latin pauling elongata, which has recently become a hit as a fast-growing species. But what worries is that until today, it is not found to be harmful to the ecological system of the Republic of Croatia. So here she is present, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has been asked, and they are generally resolved positively without further research. Namely, why do I care? In wood species, it is not possible to fully control the movement of seeds and the question is what can happen by introducing one such species primarily aggressive species into the eco system, especially since it is more Paulovic in the Republic of Croatia, is followed by a good media image, which among other things says that the logs are more sold at the price of 7000 kuna per cubicity. I will remind you that the highest price of the oak tree that I believe we can all agree that the Croatian brand, according to the price list of Croatian forests, is about 4000 kuna per cubic bit. So this is certainly an exaggeration, why is that, I don't know. Article 4 is not required to protect forests from diseases and pests and should be added to this item, this would be our suggestion. Article 9 which speaks of an expert view, paragraph 1 states that culture cultivation is subject to expert supervision by the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service and the Forest Institute. We think it should be added in this article except for the state forest land to which the lords of the Croatian forest are located, for the reasons that experts who are highly skilled in the Croatian forests are involved in the supervision of the areas in which they rule. This would, in fact, free Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory service to monitor private forests more and more efficiently, so about 30% of the total territory under the forests, i.e. the total land under the forests that control is certainly more necessary than those whose lords of the Croatian forest are generally in good hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69033	Thank you. We have one replica of Honorable Representative Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69034	Thank you, Vice President. Here's colleague Hajdukovic, you said it well, we just have to ask you because I didn't get to the secretary of state because he finished quickly, but you can answer me too. I get a lot of questions from Slavonia, many of our fellow citizens bring together three things. First, the emigration of citizens from Slavonia, secondly, remains a questionable law on state agricultural land and thirdly, this law, worried that Slavonia remains a raw base for electricity producers. A long-term problem can result in food shortages. And because of the bad policy, we're already too dependent on foreign food, we're closing the circle, and that means there's no going back to those evicted from the beginning of the story in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69035	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Tomic, unfortunately this law that we discussed today, i.e. the Agricultural Land Act really leaves a lot of space so-called. To express myself to entrepreneurs who are entrepreneurs by remaining in debt to millions of kunas to state firms and state as such. The fact is, unfortunately, by introducing a species of this kind of thing like paulovova and the like, we become a raw base, or we become primarily a base for bio-mass from which energy is produced. It's certainly not good, it's a good extra activity, but I think that, and that would help us, of course, the strategy of agricultural development, and then forestry, I think it would be much better to invest in livestock farming, in warfare, so in manufacturing branches while this one could be accompanied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69037	Thank you. Synchronising "%s"
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69038	Final proposal of the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Watches, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 190th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Sights, please vote. I find that most of the votes 87 for, 22 abstentions 6 against the passed Law on Wooden Cultures are short-circuited.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69039	, we move to the following point and this is: (a) The proposal for a decision to dismiss the President and the member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and (b) The proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 4. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Finance Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69040	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, as announced, you have two motions for decisions, which relate to the resolution of former members of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency's boards, and the appointment of presidents and new members of the HANFA Management Councils. HANFA was founded in 2005. ... 3 in then existing supervisory institutions, securities commissions, pension funds and insurance control agencies, as well as insurance company supervisory directorates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HANFA is an independent legal person with public authority within the framework of its activities and competences under the prescribed Law on HANFA and other laws and is responsible for the Croatian Assembly. It is this last sentence, I think it speaks best, and it is in this respected High House, which is very clear and that it is fully and fully aware and aware of both the objectives and the principles, functions and all the tasks that HANFA has. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, Art. 4th regulation that the Agency has an administrative board of 5 members, one of which is a president, the law stipulates that the administrative board of the Agency appoints the Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, on a six-year term, the current Administrative Council, headed by the President of the Governing Council 27.1., has expired the six-year term at which they were appointed and is therefore sitting in front of us on benches, i.e., in front of you on benches, the two proposals for decisions mentioned. One and the first on the discharge of the current members of the board of directors, namely Mr. Peter Pierre Matek, President, Mrs. Branka Bedov Kostelec, member, Ms. Silvana Christmas, member, Mrs. Gordana Letice, member and Mr. Maria Radakovic, member of the board. At the same time, the decision to appoint, i.e. the motion for a decision on the appointment of President and member of the Board of Directors, Doctor of Science Ante Zigman, for President, Mr Antun Palarić for member, Doctor of Science Tomislav Ridzak for member, Mrs Iliana Jelec for member, and Jurica Enačak for member. In addition to the proposal for a decision there are also the résumés of the proposed members and their professional preparedness, the expertise of reference and qualification and the experience so far can be read from the résumé. We believe that all candidates meet not only the legal preconditions, but that they are excellent experts and professionals with relevant experience in the areas of finance, the financial market, capital markets, financial stability, banking, rights and the like. Here, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69041	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of the Bulls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69042	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, this agency bears the name it bears, but it is the fact that HANFA is one of the key culprits to the situation created in the Agrokor case. She had her representatives and she financed financial stability, but had her representatives in the stability council of system companies, the financial stability of system companies. That's why I personally and raised the criminal application, including the HANFA and the CNB, but the fact is that the new president, who was appointed was also a high-ranking official at the Ministry of Finance during the time and Eve Sanader, I don't even know Jadranka Kosor, so I don't know what their great successes are, except we got into a recession that is very difficult to get out of. So always the same people, always the same people, in the same places, basically those who are responsible, which was the economic system in the hands of one man, one of them leaving, the other coming but always the same people spinning, so this solution is terribly bad and of course this is all under control, right? not you, you are set here, but, Minister Dalic, it is obvious and it is that her people are taking over the entire economic system and of course, to HANFA which is very important in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69043	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want a word? I'm not opening a debate. And on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the Honorable Representative, Beus Richembergh, appeared. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the esteemed representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69044	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. Well, here, just a little bit about these appointments. Kolega Bulj has already said and guessed who is behind this, as is behind most of what has been happening in the Croatian government in recent months. All the strings are drawn by Martin Dalic and around Agrokor Ante Ramljak is her choice. We all know about the Knighthead Fund situation, and we also know that the Deputy Prime Minister is drinking coffee with people who are suspected in the Agrokor affair. We also know that people who have been in key positions again refer to the key positions of the company, and they are talking about some major crime produced by Ivica Todorovic, I agree with it, but then those people who were part of these structures should not be re-named. What is also worrying, so we have here now and this going to the Hungarians on their feet, means a secret meeting, again Marina Dalic in the main role even though she said she was exempt I'm sticking to the subject, uh, I don't know why you bother mentioning Marine Dalic [[Intruder Reiner: A fellow Grumo, please, stick to the topic.]] It does matter, so it does matter, I'll explain why it matters. [[I don't mind mentioning anyone who has nothing to do with this.]] Let me speak Don't disturb me Yeah. [[I think it's best to write what you're going to say.]] So, Marine Dalic, who went on her feet to the Hungarians, even though she said she was exempt in the case of INA because of her husband and conflict of interest. And again in this case, Mr. Chairman, we have a situation that man Martine Dalic is named head of the HANFA. That's why it's important, and that's why it's important to stress. And Martina Dalic, the principle of this important institution, installs his own man. So it's about Mr. Zigman. They are, Dalic and Zigman are long-term used partners. Both were in the same period from 2004 to 2008, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, both from 2008 to 2010 were members of the Management Board of the Partner Bank owned by God Chule. When she went to the government as finance minister, it means in the government of Jadranka Kosor and Zigman soon left the Partner Bank and became an adviser to the governor for fiscal policy. And we all know that his wife, so Mrs. Zigman, has also been installed as State Secretary Martina Daliæ in the Ministry of Economy. That's why it's important to mention all of this. I know that it bothers you that Martina is being told here in the Croatian Parliament that Martina Dalic is pulling all the strings in the Croatian government. Let's remember the reaction to Representative Buljo around the Perun thermal power plant where she pushed hard and defended this harmful project. However, the people said no to the project, not Martini Dalic, not her interests and the interests of the people and the clicks with which she is surrounded. But for me, apart from Mr. Zigman, it means that now virtually everything is going to be controlled by these scams that are happening around Agrokor, meaning that Martina Dalic has now installed. We have another problem and another troubled man. It's a gentleman who was a constitutional judge, so Palaric. In 2017 he was a constitutional judge and imagine that in every modern democracy it is unacceptable. As a constitutional judge, he attended a pre-election HDZ meeting, meaning during this election campaign for parliamentary elections. One man saw him, so that's what he was talking about in public. He thought this guy just showed up, that he was going off the hook. But together with Plenkovic he came along with Plenkovic left the HDZ rally. What kind of message are we sending? About the independence of institutions? And precisely because we have such institutions we have Agrokor. It is precisely because Ivica Todorovic appointed us ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia, precisely because Ivica Todorovic with two ministers in this government, with Zdravko Maric and Milan Kujundzic and with Tomislav Karamark created a political project and urged Governor Rohatinski to engage politically for what we also have recognition on the parliamentary investigative committee. And then eventually that parliamentary investigation committee was supposed to be shut down. These are the problems of Croatia in every serious country, such people would no longer be able to deal with politics. Palaric would then be cast out to the public for a constitutional judge to appear, meaning at a pre-election set of a political option which is now being returned to him by putting him in HANFA. So much bad is happening that man doesn't know at all if there's any point in reacting because there's definitely nothing moving. There is no level of increased responsibility among the ruling to realize that I cannot behave in this way. Here is also from Minister Marić to Martina Dalic so far, and this is definitely one of Croatia's biggest problems, and we will continue to warn and no one will stop us, nor will the chairman, means Academyman Reiner, nor the President of Parliament Jandrokovic, who is now to silence us to move towards the changes of his Rules of Procedure. So we're not gonna shut up. We'll alert you to everything that's going on around Agrokor. We have now seen these contracts that have come out where Ante Ramljak is, saves him only because he is not a state official, which has been appointed by the court otherwise it is an eclectic example of conflict of interest. So his former firm they're in, so two employees. One lost his license to HANFA, of those employees, is earning an enormous profit, all agreed by Ante Ramljak as an extraordinary government commissioner in Agrokor. So what do we have to say next? And now this act with HANFA is just one step in a row, so in this big robbery that's going on around Agrodor where everything is trying to cover up, where all these scams are trying to cover up. But while we're here in the Croatian Parliament, it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69045	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69046	In Croatia, it is obvious that those who have brought this system to Croatia and economic and economic, who have led at one point to destruction, means that the economic system, which they have given to one man, has allowed them to control the entire economic system now to take over key institutions such as HANFA. One representative of the Constitutional Court, the other secretary was in the ministry connected with Minister Dalic, i.e. her man as she is in all other institutions. As her husband is a representative of the INA Administration, it's a conflict of interest, nothing less than a consultant I initiated and the government fell. This is where the government was supposed to fall nine times. Directly means we have people who have negotiated, created the government under the influence of Ivica Todorovic, Minister Maric, Kujundzic, together with Karamark, worked on the recognition of Zeljko Rohatinski, who is publicly... The commission on your inquiry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But anything is possible today. It's possible that these people are taking over the HANFA that I'm repeating I filed a criminal report against, which allowed the culprits that 10 billion kunas of uncovered bonds were in traffic in the case of Agrokor, which is a direct blow. The minister must laugh, but he must listen. This was a direct blow to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the threat to monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia, 10 billion kuna. And now, all those people who were driving in that cycle next to Sanader, along with Jadranka Kosor, along with Todorovic, along with Karamark, along with Plenkovic. So we need to know that our minister now running for prime minister when they took down Oreskovic by Karamark, the prime minister, in fact, by Todorovic over of course Karamark. Who's running the country? Is the Croatian state, so imagine the finance minister coming to the meeting with his prime minister and he... for the Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69047	The Honorable representative of the bush will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69048	My colleague Bulj, absolutely everything you say is true, but apart from what these people have been involved in creating this situation in Croatia, this relationship with the institutions I have warned about is more problematic. It means that someone who is at the Constitutional Court is going to the HDZ pre-election meeting and that the HDZ is now thanking him by naming him as the board of directors of the HANFA. That tells us all about the relationship to the institutions. And how many of those institutions are trapped. Our institutions have been captured by the HDZ that destroyed this country, which is responsible for all this bad that is happening in Croatia, from local environments to counties, we now have some good proposals by the President on decentralisation but we all know that this will not be done by example in Poland and other countries because it does not suit HDZ and HDZ people in HDZ is more important than Croatia. And that is why it is an organization or an interesting networked group that is a distraction, a major obstacle to the development of Croatia. Exactly because the interests of the parties assumed Croatia's interests as our common homeland. And that's the biggest problem and that's what I'm warning you about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69049	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69050	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. I would be happier if before this debate there in 2016 a report of HANFA for 2015 had been carried out, also if it had been done for 2016, then probably we would have discussed the measure of things, so we went to some other waters. But I would like to remind for the sake of the truth and for everything, HANFA was founded in 2005 and started working in 2006. At that time, the financial sector was about 15% higher than GDP, which at that time amounted to around 270 billion kuna. I must say that HANFA was one of the key preconditions for opening the chapter of financial services and it is actually still on November 1st 2009. HANFA has been very involved in the processes in these 6 years in its work, and probably during that period and has resented certain groups for the sole reason she has worked on supervision, the legality of the work of the entities of supervision and the protection of the users of financial services and then comes in 2012, HANFA has been management, someone is changing management, appoints an administrative council as if we were a kindergarten or school, HANFA is divided into 5 sectors and probably all these legal changes that took place in 2012 and I think it is a time period from 2012 to 2015 when we should particularly talk about what my predecessor was talking about because there have been many things going on. Many of the things that HANFA had to intervene primarily because HANFA was in charge of this sector regardless of the stories we couldn't, we couldn't, you had a report of HANFA for 2014, then we could do some surveillance, but in reports for 2015, 2016 said that they couldn't, even with the basis of the amended HANFA law, on the basis of the article I mean 117, HANFA could have made certain controls, but this was the period when some others acted in Croatia. It was not HDZ and the explosion of exchanges of both such and such factoring companies occurred at the end of 2011 to 2014. These are facts that cannot be escaped, these are facts, and I think today when we talk about the resolution of the present Management Council of HAFA appointed to a new administrative council, I think we just have to start from that because these are the facts, we repeat that we cannot escape from. I would like to say that when we talk about the future management council of HANFA, first of all, I sincerely hope that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance will think about amending the HANFA Act and that we will bring back the management and not the administrative council, but what I would like to do in the future is to do differently, work better, and to do what was founded because HANFA was founded when it was founded in 2005, it is known exactly why it was founded, then some new, non-bank financial transactions started, and therefore HANFA was established, until then it was the Agency for the supervision of insurance companies. So, when I debated the HDZ Club, when we discuss the report on the work of HANFA for 2018 to discuss whether it was effective to monitor financial intermediaries with the removal of administrative barriers and processes, whether there was sufficient concern about the stability of the entire financial system, whether HANFA acted proactively, in good time and whether it had clear public communication with the public regarding its work, more active action in the area of education and consumers related to financial institutions, continued to warn the general public... which stem from investment of risk financial products, careful risk control, ensure the stability of labour to pension funds in order to preserve and increase the value of future pensions and, in short, the speedy resolution of key problems in the financial market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if we discuss this when we discuss the financial report, then some things will be less important. Why am I saying this? I think I'm one of the few people in this assembly who can talk about this because in 2012, I made it clear that it's not a good law change and in which direction it goes. There are records and unfortunately there have been some things that have happened but then as a representative in the Croatian Parliament I warned, now that I have the right to say some things today. I'm sorry that we're not discussing what happened in the period 2012-2015 as regards the new administration and Mr. Zigman, I must say openly that it's very interesting that no one bothered that he was head of the Assembly Committee, the fiscal committee. Very interesting. The man was there, appointed, when we were together in power and no one at that time worked on Mr. Zigman any objections, to his expertise, but very interesting to repeat some things now. So, as far as Mr. Zigman's professional and moral integrity is concerned, I think it's a man who's going to do good and good work to HANFA and that HANFA will be as it has been since 2006-2012. That he would be simply unshakable and do his job the way they should, because that's how it was always done in the Ministry of Finance, at least while HDZ was responsible for finance in the Republic of Croatia. You can laugh as much as you want, but to all of you who say you've ruined something, I would remind you that the deficit of the 2008 state budget before the economic and financial crisis was 0.8% in 2008 that the economic growth since 2004-2008 in Croatia was an average of over 4%. But I'm saying these are irrelevant things. HANFA has done its job since 2006-2012. She played key roles in protecting small shareholders in the process of Pliva, INA and some other transactions, but I repeat, very interesting that we are not discussing in the period 2012-2015, because if anything is the Parliament when it comes to Agrokora, then this is it. I also don't understand why, while you were with us, you were acting with the government, there was no report in 2015 to discuss in this House of Commons. This report was supposed to be 2016. And I'm also sorry, I'm extremely sorry, that the 2016 report didn't come up for debate before this execution and new appointments. The HDZ Club will support the resolution of the existing board of directors, HANFA and the appointment of the new management council of HANFA, with a desire to discuss some of these objectives I mentioned on behalf of the club that we would like to discuss very much after a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69051	Thank you. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of the bush first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69052	Dear fellow Shuker, you're not listening, uh, I think my colleague Bulj was just talking about, that he filed a criminal report against this board for inaction in the case of Agrokor, so it's not true that we didn't talk about it, but most of the time, of course, we dedicated it to people who are now named. And I agree with you, that HANFA has provided an invitation role in this period that you spoke of, but it is interesting that you did not now propose to this man, who then opposed Ivica Todorovic and the team. It's that Marine Dalic's kitchen now has these names drawn. Why isn't Ante Samodol now transferred from HDZ when you praise him like that, but you suggest, and I'll tell you why, because he didn't give Borislas Skegro. That's why it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69053	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69054	Look, I was deliberately talking about the history of HANFA, among other things, to highlight the role of the leader. And I said that he and I probably resented certain groups, because we stopped some things. That's what I said. And I also said, let me protect integrity, as I will always protect the integrity of Zdravko Marić, to protect the integrity of Ante Zigman. He was not the secretary of state, but was the deputy minister of finance, in the period when Mrs. Dalic left the finance ministry for the state strategy office, purely for the record and for the truth. And I claim that with my expertise, my knowledge and my principle, he will be a safe person, who will fight for what we stand for in this House. Why did I mention to you the Committee for, the fiscal committee in the Croatian Parliament. Look at the reports signed by Mr. Zigman. They weren't always on the threshold, what the ministers were saying and the others. So, in the end, on behalf of the club, I said what we wanted. So let's give people a chance, then let's attack them. Let's not attack people because they're good with someone. I will never, for that, for no one, I hope you are such a man, that you will not deny anyone. Don't be so mean because someone's friends with someone, you know, make them look bad. Give him a chance, so that's why I said, right on the trail of your debate, I mentioned report 2018. Wanting to... The management of this new one, because it was logical that today when we talk, we talk about the old one, because she has, she has some parts, but let's give the new ones, after all, that's political responsibility to the one who behaves power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He suggests his own, I then proposed to Mr. Samodol in 2006, because he was a supporter for the financial system and it made sense for me that the man who does the laws, after all, and took responsibility for it, after all, proved to have done his job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69055	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69056	Thank you very much. The thing is, after the appointment of new members and presidents in HANFA, as far as counterpart Schuker was concerned, he spoke, and I said in a replica, against the current administration, I filed a criminal report, where people are from the profession. Evidence and very simple, one of the main and key culprits with the Ministry of Finance, the CNB, representatives and the Council of Stability and... are the main culprits for, the state that was, so 10 billion kuna there were bonds without cover in the case of Agrokor, which were used, however, here is the fact, colleague Shuker, mention why not in 2016. 2016 due to the absence of the HANFA report, you know that a few months, 2, 3 months lasted, that there was a case where HDZ crashed its example where elections went, where elections went, that during this period it was not possible and while the new government was establishing elections, and the election process was passed that and again a few months was the Bridge in parliament, it was several months and for these reasons Most is not there where it is and we need to be aware that the people who were placed are directly bound to Martin Dalic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That all points to them, they're from the Skegra district, Martin Dalic. Well, I mean, it's unimaginable for me, and here I was myself then, personally, in the case of an affair that was happening, it's a case of conflict of interest for Mr. Karamark, that this is ten times worse. In the INA's husband from the minister, the Deputy Prime Minister is one of the key people in the administrative bodies. She makes and participates in INA decisions, she first says she will sell the INA along with the prime minister and she defends it on TV, and the husband in the governing body. It's an eclectic conflict of interest. We have here and other conflicts of interest that are related to none. You remember the reaction of Martina Dalic to my question in the case of TE Peru, nothing there was unclear or directly from the government the husband of that project the husband of Mrs. Buric, the reaction was I think I didn't ask her or it never happened. You were in the government to question the prime minister's answer to the Deputy Prime Minister. Therefore, the entire system in the case now Ramljak around Agrokora is also an eclectic example of conflict of interest. They mean a number of conflicts of interest in the case of Mr. Maric, the finance minister, who was exempt from the Agrokor case, but the fact that he participated in meetings, the fact that the prime minister... was meeting when Todorovic was and asked and he answered, is the fact that they met with Todorovic. I'm not saying that he's insisting on insisting on the prime minister's insistence, these are eclectic examples of conflict of interest. As a result, the government fell, in fact, dissent by you, Prime Minister Oreskovic did not get... by the HDZ, did not succeed, this time succeeded with a certain HNS, Milorad Pupovac and SDSS and other minorities, and this is it and is going peacefully. However, the fact is that Mr. and Palaric was a constitutional judge from 2009 to 2017 that in that period he had, I don't know what his opinion was in the INA case about the verdict that essentially collapsed and our arbitration is without a verdict, no one is responsible for the INA. So the new people in the agency now are not new people, these are people who have already been in a system that is directly connected to the government and this is an equident example of conflict of interest, this is a circle of people who will control the financial system and will control the agencies that are monitoring that system. It's obvious and it's visible. Therefore, I will not support it again, I have raised a criminal application and it should be a resolution of this administration regardless of the expiry of the deadline, it has been a long time since the main culprits for one of the culprits with the CNB and the Ministry of Finance, but I also can't support this either is the fact that these people were in systems when good things didn't happen for the Republic of Croatia, and they certainly affected a large part of this situation in the Republic of Croatia, and it is best for them because of these people who now name and those who leave the CNFA and those who enter 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia are empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69057	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69058	Comrade Bulj, I've come to the line just to keep some things unsaid for you. It is far more important to me that the 2015 report has not been discussed then you were in power with us and I believe that this report should have been considered that many things about Agrokor would have been cleaner. Zdravko Maric is being attacked by the minister for certain things, but it is very interesting that you today, besides saying that you filed a criminal complaint with no word, did not mention what was wrong or did wrong by the management of HAFA. It's far more important, far more important to me, and I think we've discussed it so that you and I and other colleagues agree on a lot of things. But I repeat, someone has managed to transfer from their backyard to someone else. And why am I repeating it? Because after this speaker in 2012, when the HANFA Law changed, I warned about what was going to happen, and that's the key thing, and we need to talk about it. Let's give people a chance, let's not accuse people of this or that, we're accusing people too easily. And second of all, let's not throw numbers at each other. You said 50 billion... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have the exact information, but that's irrelevant. The important thing is that Hanfa didn't do the job she was supposed to do, and that's the most important thing of all. And then when we're done with that story, then we'll go to another story. But let's not discredit people, let's give them because if someone's good enough to lead the fiscal board, then it's good to be here too. When it comes to the 2018 report, brother, let's go check it out on one side or the other if they don't do some things. But let's give people a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69059	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69060	Thank you very much. At the time he was president very briefly, later he was in the Parliament when he was disbanded, Mr. Reiner, he might have put that point on his mind, but the fact was that until we were from the Bridge that Todorovic did whatever he wanted, no one should have mentioned him here, and even in the media, he should not have been mentioned. It was nice in his society, we have to turn away all the historical images, the videos until we were even mentioned, and still the money would be given and sucked into a variety of incentives, ways of financial malversion to suck on. And now you're telling us who I've filed a criminal application that's not a financial expert, which is usually a human being, that financial experts and political elites have done their job, believe me, you wouldn't be the chairman of a local committee, let alone a parliamentary representative, believe me. So from the local committee where I ran, I came to the Parliament with the problems of the city of Sinja. Believe me... they were doing their job because the experts were writing a criminal report, I gave a criminal report, I didn't say and I've spoken to you a dozen times now what HANFA did and the CNB that she missed out on the issue here a dozen times. I as a person who is not an expert so now imagine what your crime is, not yours personally, but all of you who are experts in all of you, who know the matter, I am a man who has a high school raising criminal charges against HANFA for the robbery in Croatia. And you intellectuals who ran the state, financial experts object to me that made it possible for Todorovic to rob the Croatian state and us. We are the ones who told you not to. The money will no longer be given to these institutions by the state. That's a fact. State money to Todorovic, subsidies to the O.P.G., everything. Well, the state was robbed because of you who knew everything, and I, as a high school man, had to file a criminal report. So are you even ashamed to come out on stage?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69061	Thanks, buddy Bull. One correction, then he was President of the Parliament, your colleague Petrov. It's not true that it was me back then. Let's speak correctly. I'm closing this debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. ... Please! [[I don't understand.]] Calm down these last minutes. We'll proceed tomorrow morning with a bill of law... Hey, buddy Bull, that's enough! Please! I asked you all to stop yelling at least for the last minute. ... Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, first reading, P.Z. No. 259. [[I don't understand.]] Good night! The session was interrupted in 19.55 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-31-0.u69062	The next item under A, Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency and B is the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. First we vote on the proposal under A on the resolution of the president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, please vote. I find that most votes, 89 votes in favour, 25 abstentions, are confirmed. So now we move on to another one, and this is the proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, so I am voting on that proposal. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for, 26 abstentions and 13 against, a decision has been taken to appoint presidents and members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
