ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108175	Honorable MPs. The current State Measurement Act and the 2007 Realty Cataster, with 5 amendments and additions in application, has therefore been applicable for 11 years. Meanwhile, new requirements of the real estate market and the resolution of property-legal relations have emerged in order to create preconditions for new investment and economic development and the development of technology in the area of access and use of data. Specific issues covered by the law relate to state measurements, real estate cadastre, infrastructure register, spatial unit registers, geographical name registers, jurisdiction and the performance of those transactions and the storage and use of state measurement data and real estate catalogues. The adoption of a new law introduces or improves registers for the jurisdiction of the state geodetic administration, improves the conduct within the administrative area of state change and real estate catasters, the common information system of the CIS, land books, catastras and electronic operations. It shall also ensure faster and more efficient access and use of up-to-date data from the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority. The law prescribes matters of state measurement, including basic geodetic works, topographic measurement, the production of state maps and measurement, and the labelling and keeping of records on the state border and on land. In addition, the area of the real estate cadastre is prescribed and this is produced by a real estate cadastre in certain catastrian municipalities or individual translation of cadastrian particles into the real estate cadastre, the land cadastre will be maintained in a way that gradually adapts the catastre of real estate. For those catastrian municipalities and cadastrian particles on which the relevant preconditions prescribed by this law will be met, cadastrian particles will also be translated individually from land cadastre to cadastrian real estate particles. The implementation of activities in the field of real estate catastra is planned through a multi-annual programme adopted by the Croatian Parliament and proposed to the Government by the State Geodetic Administration, with the previous agreement of the Ministry of Justice and in the work of registering maritime goods with the previous consent of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. The programme will ensure the restoration of a catastrian operator and land books with an emphasis on extended construction areas. The quality and data of field measurements will be ensured,... Points of border and other frontiers of cadastral particles and buildings and other buildings with a standard position of accuracy of up to 10 cm contributes to increasing security in the data that are part of the official record of the real estate cadastre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedures in the catastrian measure have been amended by introducing the procedure and... a co-loquial pre-deposit of the data presented in the catastrian measurement elaborat, and this will result in an acceleration of the public input procedures collected by a cadastral measurement and the procedure carried out by the Commission of the State Geodetic Administration at the same time in connection with the procedure for the establishment of the renewal of the land book supplement. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same will affect citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers and all other land administration users, thus speeding up and making it more efficient to put into use cadastrian operations and land books. In order to improve the quality of existing cadastrian plans drawn up by graphic measurement methods, a process of homogenisation of cadastrian plans is carried out which the technical process implements the positional improvement of the cadastrian plans and the correction of the internal inhomogenicity of the Kadastrian plan and which has no impact on the data shown in the listable library part of the catastrian operat. Furthermore, further maintenance of the common information system of the land book and of the cataster already in force in all catastar conditions is required. Persons who agree to carry out expert geodetic activities, the maintenance of land cadastras and real estate catastras may, in accordance with the specific law, apply for confirmation of geodetic elaborate by digital means, with the adaptation of elaborates in digital form, which will speed up the review and verification of elaborates. The register of buildings will be established as records in all buildings and special parts of buildings built in the area of the Republic of Croatia and as such will have a spatial component. For the purpose of establishing a register of buildings are taken and used data from catastra real estate, state changes, registers of special units, land books, records of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, data for... building according to specific regulations in the field of special arrangements and construction and records managed by the building manager and from other sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The responsibility of the State Geodetic Authority for the determination of home numbers is prescribed so that the units of local self-government which have so far established, implemented, passed by law, that these tasks continue to be carried out and other units of local self-government can carry out those tasks by fulfilling the conditions laid down by law. The competent authority of the State Geodesy Administration for the establishment, management, maintenance of the infrastructure catastra as well as the availability of infrastructure and information on ongoing or planned construction works for the entire Republic of Croatia, which will establish a single and comprehensive record for the whole country. The units of local self-government that have established and implemented these jobs so far have been passed over to the authorities to continue to carry out these tasks. For units of local self-government which do not continue to carry out those tasks, the State Geodetic Authority shall perform. In addition, other units of local self-government or body responsible for the hydrographic measurement at sea may carry out those tasks in compliance with the conditions laid down by law. The improvement of the register of spatial units as one of the main registers creates preconditions for more efficient management and proportionate use of spatial unit register data by other state bodies and entities. The existing register has already been successfully implemented in the information system of the construction and spatial planning ministry and will serve to introduce a new module of e-archive issued building permits. By improving the Register of Geographical Names, the system of collecting geographical names will be upgraded, resulting in greater availability and eased use of those spatial data by other national authorities and other users. The law establishes an interdisciplinary body responsible for the standardisation of geographical names which will have the responsibility and competence of professional management of the problem of geographical names in accordance with international standards. The law also regulates the conduct in electronic business for the publication of data from the State Geodetic Authority's records. The availability of data through network services shall be prescribed to allow easier and more efficient access to data. It is prescribed that the data from the jurisdiction are public unless a certain restriction is prescribed by a specific law. The improvement of the digital archive system will solve the problem of difficult access to the archive documentation of the state measurement of real estate and ensure permanent storage of documentation and data. The translation of analogue construction into digital form is carried out in conversion centres at the State Geodetic Administration. And in relation to the text of the bill adopted in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final draft law has been finalised in a nomotechnical sense and provisions have been developed in the part of the regulation of multiannual and annual programmes relating to real estate catastra, and in relation to the recording of maritime goods. Conditions are laid down in accordance with which units of local self-government are able to carry out the tasks of determining home numbers and the tasks of establishing, managing and maintaining the catastra infrastructure. The composition of a committee for the standardisation of geographical names and the determination of the actual costs of the use of data and the conditions for the use of those shall be extended in accordance with the rules governing the remanagement of information. And the authorities of the state administration to units of local, regional (regional) self-government for access to data on the issue of certificates, extracts, etc. in the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority, the actual costs shall not be charged. Finally, the new law will achieve the following positive effects, ensuring the creation of a framework for the establishment of a central system for the construction, storage and distribution and the management of a catalogue of infrastructure for the entire Republic of Croatia, creating a framework for the establishment of a register of buildings and buildings, creating a framework for the improvement of the land information system of land books and catasters, improving the register of spatial units and the register of geographical names, revising business processes, handling in the cataster and teaching land books. In the domain of cadastrian measurements, improvements are planned to affect citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers and all other land administration users, thus speeding up and making the process of putting them into use more efficiently. Finally, we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108176	Thank you, we have three replicas. First up, dear colleague Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108177	Thank you to the Presidential Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, as regards the very proposal of the law itself, the law is ensnared, there are no important remarks except in Article 121, I will explain it later in an individual debate, I think I will put on one amendment, but what I would like to say so vividly now you know how it is already said that it is already saying "when on vervains of grapes", the phrase "when the grantines and catastrases are joined". This law certainly has great implications, you said in the beginning and investment this is a very important law because if we don't fix the country's book situation and the situation in the catastro, we won't have investments, because those two states differ, and then they differ with the situation in space. What's most dangerous is we have everything according to the data 5% has, 5% of the land measured in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108178	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108179	You're right all the way, more or less what you said this law defines and promotes the system of business in the cataster, but in any case it's one basis for both the grantovnica and the state-of-the-art and the grantovnica. Of course, in order to settle the situation in the grantshop, we will have to change the laws concerning land books and grantshops, but I say this is the first step of one step in order to bring all these data into line in order to be one database at the end of a special land data base that is already in operation today and is being filled, and this law allows for individual translation of cadastrian particles and parts of cadastrian municipalities from the land cadastre to the property cadastre which is an integral part of the land database, where the data are harmonised. As far as [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108180	Let's go to the replica, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108181	... The Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary, therefore my question concerns a new head that is in this law and is spoken of as a building register. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, the theme of the building register to register and its specific parts is clearly going in terms of fixing the situation in space and in terms of recording for all further procedures which we know that several times the possibility of real estate tax has been announced and, in the sense that, in general, the conditions for it to work, among other things, have to have a good database. I'm interested in how many jobs she's done to the State Geodetic Authority so far, so that the niche of the building can be opened in the first place, and when it's expected to be over and that it can work, or that it can be filled in with certain data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108182	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108183	Thank you very much. Here, as I was saying in the introduction, this final proposal of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estate Cataster will create a legal framework for the establishment of a Register of Buildings, or a record of buildings and parts of buildings. And the preparation of the project documentation for obtaining grants from the European Regional Development Fund is under way, the project is worth around 12 million kuna, that 85% will be financed from the European Regional Development Fund and 15% from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. The State Geodetic Administration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the State Statistics Office, is currently working on the pooling of existing data kept by different institutions and to establish a single register of the Register of Buildings. The establishment of the Register of Buildings is expected over a period of 4 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108184	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Glasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108185	Dear colleagues. Thus, 30 years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, Croatia has not yet resolved the issue of private ownership. What kind of co-ordination between the ministries? You had a pilot project, digitalization, land, you had, uh, Pozega, Zadar. What's going on here? What's causing it? People come to me every week, how is it possible for someone to sign off on someone else's particle? It's unimaginable in normal states. What's going on here? 5% of the land books are digitized, and the 19th century cadastre is digitized. What's causing it? We know what's causing it, no one's talking about it, of course the kidnapping and so on, which was carried out after the '45s. All our problems are from '45. The year, and representatives of the regime that have turned now as Democrats, sit in this House. That's not what you're talking about. What about agricultural land? The digitalization of millions of kuna, the effect of absolute zero. How long will it take?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108186	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108187	Thank you very much. Often the problem of the real estate cataster is linked to ownership. However, the business of writing down data on the legal status of real estate in grant books is not the subject of this Act, but they are a good basis for reducing the number of procedures in cadastar and land-booking procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108188	Comrade Glasnović, please. Let's move on. Would the presidents or rapporteurs of the Committee like to take the floor? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of GLS and HSU representatives and respected colleague Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108189	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, Director, Deputy, colleagues from the State Geodesy Administration. It is before us in the second reading of the Law on State Measurement and the Catastrophe of Real estate. Nothing started today, nor will it end today, it all started much earlier. So Croatia is a country that has a particular cadastre, and especially has a grantovnica. And we have to be honest with each other and say this, that we haven't all taken too much care of our properties together, and that we haven't updated our data in either the catastro or the grantine. Take a look at your real estate, and see if you have a fixed cadastre and a garland, and it's always been an obligation for us to do it. Why was that? Because the catastro was run in possession, and property was run in the garter. It's before and it's today. And when you compare that data a little bit, they're, these data are often very, very hard to compare. Take an example of Zagreb, I always like to talk about the example of Zagreb, let's say, the main part of New Zagreb is your meadow, when the problem opened, when the sale of social apartments was then especially in the grantovnica had to be opened for a simple reason for people to register their property. The same procedure after the legalisation process has also changed in the garter. When we talk about reforms, one of the serious reforms that this country would need would be accompanied by a united catastrophe and a granite. Croatia remains, I think, the only one of the European Union countries that has a special cadastre, which has a special grantovnica. Even the countries of our environment, when you take it, they've united it and done it in one place. Since when, when you look at a little bit of what was in the Austro-Hungarian procedure, it has been particularly catastrian, and I have to say that this cadastre, Austro-Hungarian, is a great cadastre, and in doing so, it's been parallel to that gruntovnica and the condition that it is. So one serious reform and one serious step would be if we had a cadastre and a garland together, that we had regulations together, that we were doing it the same way. The same was the ZIS, therefore, the Joint Information System, which united the formal cadastre and the grantovnica, which provide 2 exact information. But once you have two incorrect data, the CIS doesn't work. And that's a fact, and it's a condition, and that's what we've been talking about all along, but we're not ready or we don't want to, I don't know what those reasons are anymore, make one step. Everyone who's here, there's a lot of mayors and mayors, knows how to deal with it, everyone who deals with investment knows how to torture it. This law is on the trail of existing legislation, it is in its technical elements correct, but the time has come when we must make a step. To make a step is not easy, it's a step to be in one place and to have one process. I must admit, I was personally pleased when I saw that there would be a cadastre for certain parts, and I'm talking about construction areas, because it's an investment, I don't think you should do every time you measure from the beginning, the measurements take a certain time, there goes a public announcement, there goes a grantine behind it. As long as we do all that, reality goes on. People build something, something happens, something sells. And I thought, come on, thank God, we have now, we'll have a simpler procedure in the law and then we'll get to art. 34 that says it's possible, therefore, to make cathary changes and technical reambulation and everything else. But let's see how the law predicted it. To make that possible, let's get back to art. 8. I'm sorry. 8th says that first they must be multi-annual programs. These multiannual programmes are adopted by the Parliament, published in the National Journal, the proposal is made by the State Geodetic Authority, with the previous agreement of the Ministry of Justice's affairs. So, a multi-annual programme is being developed, then the Justice Department gives consent, then brings it to the Parliament and it's being published in the National Journal, but that's not the end of it. There must be an annual programme behind that of the Yearly Programme brought by the Government, but there is no end either. In addition, the one-year programme of the Yearly Programme, which is adopted by the Government, shall be adopted by the Director of the State Geodetic Administration, who shall make the decision once more. So let's see what we're doing. Let's turn on all the specks of reason. We want to do something fast, we want to be expeditional, we want to tell my people, we have investments in Slavonia, Sheik shows up from Qatar and says I want to make three toy factories in Slavonia. I want three toy factories, here I am. We come and say hey, check, now we have a little problem. We still have the Austro-Hungarian Catastran, when you take the property, we still have the property, I don't know, still listed there, say, what I know, someone from, I don't know how, let's do it fast. She doesn't have a mother soon. First, the Multi-annual Programme, which brings the Parliament, behind it The annual programme brought by the Government, followed by the Director of DGU. By the time we do all this, he tells us, this Emir, my company, you're the only one working, I'm going to Macedonia where he'll fix it quickly. So there's this one saying, the way to hell is filled with good intentions. If we want to be quick, if we want to be expedient, then we have to make it possible through the laws, and then we have to enforce those laws. This law will not make it possible, this law will not do so and therefore I said intro, it is correct, it is one tradition of what we have today, it speaks of this one slow machine that is slowly changing. We've spent money, we've been financed by the Norwegians in part, when you take as much as you've invested everything and then you want to invest on Visa. Take the Visa cadastre, compare the cadastre with, say, the 2011 video of the flyover and your house are in the sea. Look, now you can, I see that someone has a laptop, you can do it neatly, make a overlap between each other, your cadastre is there Italian that's a little different from being run by Austro-Hungarian. When you see the real state of Vis and when you put a cadastre up there, then that shift is that the houses are in the sea. It's your condition. So, my people, if we're going to do something, we need to take a serious step. When you talk to your colleagues like this at some round table, then we can all agree on that. When we get to the law, we put so many fences in the law, and we put so many stairs on ourselves, that something can come up, you can really die. We're introducing more building registers, so I asked on purpose, so we know why we need a building register. We need the building register, among other things, to have them registered, and among other things, which is one of the topics that are being implemented all the time, well, that's the Real estate tax, and then it's said, among other things, that the Real estate tax could be, that we have to have some kind of database and some kind of record. In order to create conditions at all, in order to have building registers, I deliberately asked that on the Committee, and now I've asked that in the replica, it's going to take four years to even create a base where the building registers would be created. We have different experiences, we have experience, I'm not going to say because it would be rude to say which municipality is this, but it's a municipality from the sea that had an awful lot of illegally built objects. One of the chiefs who was very promulgated and wise and who said and ordered a company to record for him all the buildings he had. And she recorded it to him or it was a recording, it lasted, I think, somewhere a project between six and nine months, they recorded everything and he started to charge a communal fee according to the real state. And the communal fee to the real state was a 90% increase compared to what he had before that. His project paid off right away. So, what do I want to tell you? I'm saying, among other things, that we have certain databases, which we just need to coordinate and network together, have in the same place. It's our custom that everyone, it's like one to you, imagine a big dresser with an awful lot of drawers and every drawer has some papers and these papers are in that drawer. Al, if the unions are in one place, we need a lot. We just have to decide what we want. Do we want to drive parallel and never meet or do we finally want to say, my people, let's see what we got. That's what we have, there were 800,000 legal requirements. All the demands didn't apply to buildings, let's be honest, so there's somewhere between 200 and 300,000, that's my free estimate, recorded, illegally built buildings, which are equally used in the legalization process, but are no longer used in the recording cadastre. Let's not say that there were special geodetic backgrounds, before the PGPs worked, that today we have geodetic projects. So we have an awful lot of documentation made but she's somewhere in the archives squatting and standing. A step would be serious if we recorded it in one place. It would be a serious step if we were to finally say that the cadastre and the garland were to be together, to carry out a procedure. Among other things, when you read a little bit of the reasoning of the law, then it says there will be a simplified procedure. You still have the first degree, so the cadastre brings the first-degree solution. It has the possibility of appeal, in the second degree being resolved by the state geodetic administration. When you completed the process in the catastrus, you only completed a third or a half of it, followed by the next process in the gurutovnica. Let's think about these processes a little bit. So we're going to take care of the property and take out the cadastre, we have the first step solution, so it could be a complaint, so second degree, and that's where we did the cadastre. And now we're going to the garland, and we're going back to the garland again. There's no luck. There isn't easy, the result will still be that another Assembly in another assembly will talk about not getting 6% worked out, or that it's 7% done, but there's no luck. Just imagine some investor coming in and he doesn't even know what we're talking about. So, the investor, a serious investor, when we say look, we need time now, so we're going to cadastre, so we're going to garter, so we're not really sure that your owner is the one who's in your cadastre, so we need to see it in the garter, so maybe you should sue the state. My people, we either want to step up or we're going to be such a country, maybe we don't want to, maybe we want to be a country where that is, we just need to know what we want. I have to admit, since I'm always looking at time and trying to say what I think is important and important, let's do Article 44. Says the kind of use the building can be next. And now it's being introduced for the occasional stay. So we're dividing the buildings by purpose. The purpose is residential, mixed, public and everything else. The occasional stay is the way to use it. And I'm curious about what this is about, is there a record of our cottages? So we're dividing the buildings by purpose and we need to define it in the catastro for the purpose, not by how anyone uses the building for a month, they can use it for 3 months. What about the people who have left, whether they will be bound by the cataster to change and say that their home is no longer residential but for occasional stay. In this sense the GLAS Club will give the amendment above written and probably already delete the occasional stay of the building, define by the purpose of the residential, mixed, public, economic, auxiliary, by the more you have here and the ruins and you have underground buildings, which is extremely important because this catastre of the underworld that is extremely important to us. But this occasional stay will cause trouble. When I'm done using the apartment building, say, there's a cottage at sea and it decides, because it's too big, so tax and everything. ... will report to the cottage at sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then what I'm going to have to do is change the catastro from the occasional stay to the living room. I don't understand, I feel like we're making up a job for ourselves and we have an extra job. Compared to the law, I can't say, he's correct in relation to the tradition we have. What we all need together is to think whether we want a step or not. If it's a step, then we need to define differently, and in that sense, the GLAS and HSU Club will also be restrained from this. Something that's correct isn't all the way to the end or anything that's acceptable. So this is just what we've had so far, a little bit stored and some things in there a little bit different defined, but it's not the job that's supposed to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108190	We're going to another club, it's the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108191	I would like to thank Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Director of the State Geodesy Administration, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ advocates' club will accept and support the State Measurement Act and the Real Estate Catastrophe. As the State Secretary of State has already said, the basic law in force was passed in 2007 and has been amended six times since then. Given the new requirements and technical and technological and new processes that will take place after, as proposed by this law and after its adoption and making sure that it has been changed six times, it is absolutely correct that the government has proposed a new, completely new law and that we can today discuss and support such solutions as the law itself offers. What has already been discussed is the fact that for a very large majority of Croatia, more than two thirds of Croatia is in force, a basic record of real estate that was created on the basis of measurement, graphic measurements from the beginning or from the mid-19th century. This fact that even today, to the greatest extent, we are taking records that were created in the early 19th century, and it is data-keeping data on the most important property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the local self-government unit or the Republic of Croatia, in a certain way points to the consciousness of all of us about respecting our own properties and those who are, in any case, the most valuable. I have already spoken here several times in this Chamber that in the last 30 years since the independence of the Republic of Croatia for its movable assets, these are cars per year for insurance, payment, for insurance of vehicles for technical examinations, about 6 billion kuna has been allocated, which is about 30 28 years from Croatia's independence somewhere around 200 billion kuna. While on the other hand, we've set aside about a billion and 500-600 million kn in the past 28 years. So it best says how much and how we value and how we treat the most valuable asset. It is clear from this that it is necessary to enter into a new project, which will allow Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to enter a new cycle through a multi-annual programme of state measures, which includes where and where more money is available, but which could also help to arrange, update this property. It was also also about how unsettled the cadastre unsupervised records, the discrepancy with the situation on the ground, the discrepancies with the land book as much as it makes any serious investment cycle impossible. The assumption of investment in Croatia is, above all, the construction of the land book cadastre. There is no more serious investment in Croatia, which was not initially stuck on an unsettled cathedral and an unsettled land book. So to be able to make any serious investment cycle, the assumption is the first thing, to sort out catasters and land books, permanent, secure, stable, tax system that often does not change and cover the Republic of Croatia with all the intended spatial planning documents. We can pass laws on strategic investment projects, we can pass investment laws, set up competition and investment agencies in Croatia, but it is not possible to implement a more serious investment cycle unless it approaches a new state measure for the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Of the 3360 catastrian municipalities, according to the State Geodetic Administration, all 414 pass through the system of state measurements and real estate cadastres, but only 200 are in use or, in use, and it cannot satisfy us. According to the analysis, and about this, a little while ago and Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas, according to the analysis and comparison of the income of the unit of local self-government, on the basis of the records, such unsettled records and comparisons with the financial revenues of the unit of local self-government, following the geodetic measurement, it is found that in the section relating to the original incomes of the local self-government unit, more than 40% are in revenue compared to the pre-execution situation in the first part of the unit of local self-government, the situation on the cataster and the land book, and that fact accelerates traffic of real estate, and then clearly in the light of the income tax on property, which is the income of the unit of local self-government, is automatically increased and that part of the local self-government unit income of the local self-government. I therefore believe that one of the most important provisions of this law is the obligation of the state... that is, at the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a multi-annual programme of state measures and a catalogue of real estate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to what I have heard and what this law is planning to do, a rapid process of state measurement project on the building land as the most valuable part of the land, and thus could be covered with less money by as many units of local self-government as possible, i.e. catastrian municipalities in Croatia. So in that sense, and I said that in my first reading, I suggested to the government, I suggested... manages to make this multi-annual programme of national measurement and real estate cadastre as possible, as short as possible, and not to be spared on money that will also be returned by local self-government units and by the Republic of Croatia through a very short period of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, every kuna invested in the new state measure will return very quickly to the Republic of Croatia's budget, and will also return very quickly to the budget of the local self-government units. What I would further single out and what's been a long-term matter of dispute between... The administrations and units of local self-government, it's the management of cadastres and infrastructure, and it's good that this law re-returns that records within the state... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The administration, it should never have come out of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it is good to leave the possibility for those units of local self-government and not many of them, I think 5 or 6 in Croatia who have established a system of cadastre infrastructure, if they want to keep it available. I would be more satisfied and the better solution is that for those units of local self-government, set up by the system, return this job to the state geodetic administration. It was also about the register of buildings, I think it was a good solution, although I do believe that by establishing a new cadastre, new land books, data, all aspects, about all the records and about the lines and about the buildings and about the maritime goods and about forests and about agricultural land and about any other space in the Republic, they will be easily available so that all these other records that will be carried out will be easy and easier available and then perhaps in that part will be almost unnecessary to keep specific records, they will be contained in the basic record itself. It is good to approach the homogenisation of cadastrian plans, to comply with the DOF, that these differences that are on certain catastrian plans, so large in relation to the situation on the ground that they, to get their alignment according to the data I heard by the State Geodetic Administration in the first part should start somewhere around 2.5 thousand catastrian plans, it is a job that needs to be done and it should be realized to the end. It is also good to continue with the geodetic elaborat which would then ask the state geodetic administration to resolve the implementation of changes in the cathartic... contain the coordinates of the breaking points, and thus, with the accuracy of today's geodetic profession, it would significantly improve the quality of the basic cadastrian data itself and those serving both parties and all participants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When I spoke earlier about 414 units of local self-government and 414 catastrian municipalities, which are passing through the system of state measurement, are building a catastra of real estate. One of the obstacles that enables the rapid implementation and implementation of the state measure is the fact that the commission that only conducts the exposure is very slow, works, works and on several occasions actually has taken so long the realization and implementation of the state measure that the data of the new measurements until the start and placing on the application of certain elaborates are slowly outdated and are no longer up-to-date. I therefore support the solution that the full project of public insight and exposure, the data of the state measure for the purpose of the measuring officer, and that it completes this work to the end of what is good and that, eventually, by the appeal that arises, we will significantly speed up the implementation of the entire system. Therefore, it is a very good solution, and this will speed up the realisation of the law itself. So we're going to support this law at the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to point out on the trail of the 20th anniversary of the implementation of the state measure and the catastra of real estate in the Neretva area, and I would like to point out in particular how good it is for this process to end. A project of state programme of measurement, state measurements and a cataster of real estate on Croatian islands was also imagined, however, it was not implemented until the end. According to the Law on Islands, we have now included another provision and the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to, in view of the fact that, in the most part, the state measurements are based on the graphic method and where the catastrian plans and measures were 1:2880 or 1:2904 to determine for the island's space the accelerated project of state measurement and the catastrophe of real estate, so I would like to ask the State Geodetic Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make this multi-annual programme of national measurement and catastra real estate certainly include Croatian islands because this is in accordance with the Law on Islands that we brought here in the Croatian Assembly a few days ago. Therefore, I support this view of moving towards the creation of this state programme, that it really covers those spaces of the Republic of Croatia that are most neglected when it comes to the maintenance of the cataster and the land book, that it certainly refers to those areas where many Croatian citizens still have a strange criterion of basic records, which is 1:2880, that these are exactly the areas that will be priorityd in this state programme and that in this way we make up for I think a lost time behind us, which is that we have not yet made and settled the most important records of the Croatian state, and this is a catastra and a land book. Well, in that sense, we at the Representatives' Club will support this law and try to get the government started as soon as possible with this project that's been designed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108192	This is what we came up with at the end of the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate now. The first should be spoken by counterpart Bulj, however he is not here and losing his right to speak. Well, then the second one's next, dear colleague Davor Lonachr. Before you start talking, I'd like to welcome the students and students of Bernardine Frankopan's high school in Ogulin, welcome. Here you go, fellow Lonachar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108193	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Since a few months ago we had a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Measurement of Real estate by this final proposal, which corrected the doubt, I must say that the Proposer has precisely given certain articles of this law which will in practice be faster and more operational for the benefit of our fellow citizens. New market requirements make us need to resolve property legal relations as soon as possible in order to create preconditions for new investment and economic development. The main issues of regulation relate to national measurement, real estate cadastre, infrastructure cadastre, building registers, spatial units, geographical names, etc. The adoption of this law shall establish, improve the records managed by the State Geodetic Authority within the management area through a common information system of the management of landowners and book cadastras. Furthermore, faster data-use approach is ensured, and what is important continues is the cadastrian measurement through the provision of a solution to the long-unsolved problem of harmonisation of the owned, i.e. the ownership situation by individual catastastastrian municipalities, harmonising each of the country's particles in a way that gradually adapts to the cataster of real estate. It should point out to the newspaper that for those cadastrian municipalities and cadastrian particles on which the prerequisite for this law is met will be applied for each single particle from the land cadastre to property particles. All of this will affect our fellow citizens, entrepreneurs and other land administration users, which will speed up the process of putting into use cadastrian operatives and land books. As regards the register of buildings, a record of all buildings built in the Republic of Croatia will be established. The purpose of the register of buildings is to download data from the real estate catalogue, state measurements, register spatial units, land books, building acts and others, and all with the aim of the final record of all the buildings that have not been built yet. It is also important to highlight the keeping of records in the infrastructure catalogue and putting data in one place for the entire Republic of Croatia because all other records would create major problems in space and construction in the Republic of Croatia. In order to implement this, it is important that more resources for all direct employees who carry out and enter records because the current situation cannot be satisfied because their current incomes are very low. Professionals are very important in these jobs because at this point, the Republic of Croatia does not have enough personnel to implement all our requirements, so I suggest that, if possible at this time, additional funds should be found as soon as, in accordance with the names of employees working in the State Geodetic Administration in the land departments of municipal courts, their receipts are increased. Finally, as regards Article 124, which speaks of a real estate cataster and refers to a hydrographic measurement at sea where the units of local administration which must have a professional employee for verification and the like, I believe that this is a great burden for local administration units where they are not able to respect from a number of factors because they do not have the means and have no heavy equipment and conditions to do so... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108194	We're going to another debate, dear colleague Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108195	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored State Secretary with Associates. I see here quite a number of associates, I see probably and I guess people who haven't been in this system since yesterday, who know a lot about this system. You've come here to defend the law before us MPs, I have to admit, I don't know much about this system, I know what people tell me, we know as a user, as a citizen when I come to a cadastre or garter what's going on, so I'm going to tell you a story. When I came to the Slatina cadastre, I asked there valuable people who are usually said to be in public to be in love, there are a lot of valuable people in the cataster in the garland that are doing their job in difficult conditions, we have to stress that, I've found out, I'll tell you something later. I'm asking what's with this project of unifying the granite and catastra, where he's in the phase, the lady in no way has yet to go. So, here it is as I said in the replica first, about a very important law, and you've pointed out, later in the discussions and my colleague Bačić mentioned, it is about investments, so all those obstacles that could prevent investment from coming, and that's what my colleague Mrak-Taritash said, and I'm going to refer to them because they've opened two principled things on behalf of the club, it's one thing of self-implementation or what we want to organise in space, in which way we can achieve it, and another is all the obstacles that we ourselves and here legislator are putting before the realisation or the implementation of those provisions in practice. Namely, a colleague of the Dark-Taritash spoke about this multi-year program. Now, if a multi-annual programme brings in the Croatian Parliament, then it is clear that, and it is proposed by the State Geodetic Authority or whatever, or going to it for consideration, I do not have to admit it, it is not clear to me, but the Parliament is a political body and the Parliament could determine that those units of local self-government that I consider to be carried out on, that a measurement rather than on some other units of local self-government is carried out there. There must be three important things to think about here. One of the properties, what we have so far, and when we talk about communal compensation, it was mostly people, communal directors, someone who went and measured the Gabarite buildings in order to determine the communal fee, and it is certain that much more valuable and much better data would be obtained if these measurements were more correct. The other thing that matters to local self-government units is agricultural land. Agricultural land is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, as stated in the laws concerning agriculture and strategies, and therefore it is very important to make the measure of agricultural land as soon as possible. Here's an example of a municipality from which I come, which has 3500 ha of state-owned agricultural land, somewhere up until now it's been carried out at 400 ha, the last plan covers 600 ha, it's been sent to the State Geodetic Authority, but you know what the problem is now? How can the municipality secure that part of the funds that she has to? I think that model was 30-30-30, as a percentage of the units of local self-government, county and state, and it's a good model, but how do these assets be provided and how do they get done as soon as possible because somewhere on those 3500 ha, it's estimated that 5 million kunas cost a measure, which is not a great price at least at what we've been paying for so far. But that co-financing that the municipality has to give because significantly for one budget of the municipality, although the municipality of course, from the lease of agricultural land, gets that part of it. Someone here mentioned that such a measure can be paid in the future, but we must consider that there are other costs that must be incurred, and maintenance of Polish roads, unclassified roads and all that still the municipalities have to finance. So from the point of view of the units of local self-government is definitely a problem, and without the help of the state, I'm talking about smaller units of local self-government, smaller municipalities, it's going to be difficult to achieve and as we can see, a small number has been achieved. As for the work again, if we're talking about people in the cathedral and the garter, so I had a chance to get into the garter, you know, if you're looking for some kind of deal from the '80s about a burden on some real estate, then I had to personally help the lady climb the chair because the master took the ladder, and later we got the ladder, so we asked for it, what do I mean? People are working under difficult conditions and in order to make this happen, we're going to have to invest something out of the funds not only in the information system but in general teaming people, help them to do these jobs as well as I don't know by what gets the impression in the public that in today's day, the geodetic profession has been neglected, that somehow it's being put on the margins. I don't have that feeling myself, but that's what people say. They say that the geodetic profession isn't at the price today, it's true when people want to do something, there's some kind of pitch, all of which seem to them that these prices are very high, but I don't think it's from the point of view of their position on the market, when we talk about private geodetics, but rather about their country's relationship with them, even in this business. I think all available resources in the Republic of Croatia can be employed here, so that this process can be made as soon as possible, so that it doesn't happen when we have investments, that we have to, that we have the Law of Execution, and neither is it enough. Here we had it in Parliament, recently the Protection Act... areas of the Kupa River, where we had to carry more special legislation, so that this investment could liven up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I've spread the story a little bit, but on that side, this law is extremely important. However, what Mrak Taritash warns, and I believe she was a minister and knows what the problems are, that we are afraid by this law, we will not achieve the key goal, which is as soon as possible, as easy as possible to make it possible. Because I'm going to give you another example, I like to give you examples, different from this, there's no weight, because I'm saying, I'm not an expert, maybe like you, when I was the head of the municipality's former chief of staff made a project to build an unclassified road, all neatly done, we came up with a project documentation in the competent state offices and we said that we could and we could leave that project in old paper. That's when I first met up with this, that man explained to me that not only the river, and the road moved in space with time, just the road moved. And now to solve these property legal relations, it's almost impossible. On the one hand, the state has to do everything to solve these problems, and on the other hand, someone here mentioned in the debate, that we have problems, that both traditionally or however people are not willing to go to solve their own property legal relations in the garland, because in the end, it requires a certain part of the money, when I went to see something for my family, so there I really saw on certain particles, that there are 20 owners, that many of them are dead, and that is simply the process, if we go to that country the correct process, it costs money, time, and I think that the state in that direction, let the ministry think, maybe to encourage, that certain costs be taken over and the state to solve it as soon as possible. As much as that, I don't know, it may be huge money, but obviously, at this rate we won't do much, I said, the false data in the replica, it's not 5%, it's 6% measurement, and then that's not the best solution. And here we are in the end, about the art. The 121st home number, I read what happened here in Zagreb, so maybe it's such a rougher example, where, let's say if it's a geodetic profession, it says, or some city office, which makes such a decision, and then you know, on some frontal building that might be protected, monuments of culture, and then some board is determined, and then a blue board with some font of letters is glued, and what was before, which has some cultural value, just rips out. It happened in the City of Zagreb, I saw pictures, di... A nice column, a rectangular board, and it breaks the whole look. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why I think that if, if units of local self-government, assume on themselves the obligation of determining home numbers and setting those numbers, then, that it does, however, not only the geodetic profession, but also some other professions, architectural or other professions to... It's a bad chance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the very identification of home numbers, local self-government units, i.e. The municipality, it says here, there's an opportunity to sink, beware it's impossible, it's difficult, because here it determines that they hire a man on it, a man with professional training, an expert exam it's not impossible. It's only possible that if I try to put the amendment together to do so by the county, and given this intensities of the government, to remove state offices from the county, then to take over those decisions, that maybe the county hired people who would be at the service of the other municipalities. I hope I've contributed something to my debate, and I'm telling you, of course, congratulations, because you're from the profession and I don't have any more important objections to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108196	Two replicas, dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108197	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you said, in your presentation, really a series of things about how you're experiencing it, you said one thing, really in the offices, people who have been doing this work to them for years, which I would say and show extra effort. But what is the role and importance, the importance that we need to make life easier for them by law. That laws shouldn't be like that, that we're complicated and that we're introducing more procedures for them, but to make their lives easier. They enforce the law and of course the answer is what it is. There's one thing to think about, so if the authorising officer makes any kind of proposal, the office should just record that he made that proposal. According to the laws that are, once again, in the offices, they are in control, whether it is made in accordance with certain situations, so now everyone in this process needs to do their part of the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108198	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108199	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Mr. Taritash, perhaps this is an opportunity to speak in a different way in public. At all, and the media likes to talk about it, it's about a bunch of ears working in the state or public administration. That thing just gets rid of, like, a little bit, although it's not an appropriate comparison, you know, in war or in the military, the general gets called, so he invites the commanders, so the commanders say hello, and then you see what the problem is. It's not a man's fault if he can't do his job, they say he's an earring, and he can't have a ladder, there's nothing, he doesn't have his computer, his software's gone to hell, so the hierarchy needs to go from the ministry down and see where things get stuck and then things would work out a lot sooner and then the laws would be passed just like that to solve these problems and not to the laws, we're still piling up these people, who I agree with you are doing their work in difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108200	2 replicas, dear fellow Misic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108201	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Sagar, you have just mentioned working conditions in your presentation, yes, working conditions, I have seen myself and in my city, however, you have made... From what I hear from the mayor, they were catastrophic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not the question now, I remember when I went to legalize my own space, the whole part of the buildings in Vinkovci was a green area. So I wonder by the '90s whether they were working or not when there was one part of the building, not one, but maybe 30 or more are green surfaces. I don't understand enough cadastre, but I understand when I'm looking, when I have a problem with how to get the simplest of grants' extracts, the cadastrian extracts, and to bring it together. Of course, the lawyers never did because they would take that part of the case and lead and, of course, they would all be in wait. I think there's still something going on today, not more than a lot more, so in the end, Europe has given some money as much as I've heard of solving but, But that's right, thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108202	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108203	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Misic, you reminded me of one more thing, here I came to the Slatina garter and then I was amazed, there's a bunch of data, a registrator, we're copying EU directives, you see for the potato warehouse you have to have a firegate, you have to wonders of God to make. There, I'm amazed but I'm afraid there's a spark that'll burn everything. So these things need to be taken into account, in which conditions we keep our documentation, how people can get to it as soon as possible and the digitization that's being talked about so much that as soon as possible, these things that matter to the future to be solved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108204	We're going to the next individual debate. Dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108205	Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I wonder if I know anything about the cataster, if I know anything about orthophoto technique, ARCOD, Google, I wonder if I live in the same country at all, if we're even listening to the same people telling us what's wrong and what's not good. We discuss here from day to day, the topic on the subject, but as if one very important part is lost, and that's the part that talks about responsibility, that's the part that's talking about act or inaction, intentional cover-up or random burden of work, the fall of the system and the rest. Do we all read the same newspaper, the media that individual portals give us? I will therefore be free and I will read to you and connect the story of the esteemed God of Viduka Master of Geodesy and Geoinformatic Engineers. In short time, preparing for this presentation, I forgot two documents that came to my email downstairs to our Marina, so I won't be able to testify to a fraud in one court, but I'll read this. Croatia spent a 5 billion-euro loan and land books remain unusable. I wonder if that's even true. Did the orthophoto video determine that in the port of Braidice, it's not an onion, it's a green land forest or it's really a port there. I have asked a timely and representative question on the subject because I happen to know what ARCOD is and how it works. Because I know that ARCODOM can determine how many plums there are in the plum and we only don't know if it's a cerebellar or if it's blue. And it couldn't be determined that there's an onion there, but there's a forest. Well, that confuses me very much, and I'm not a particularly well-read guy about it, but I know these basics. I'm interested in whether it's true about these 5 billion euros that were supposed to be taken down by cadastrian books in Croatia. Who are these ministers who have been dealing with problems and distribution in a certain direction of those 5 billion euros so that I, as an agent, could come home and tell my neighbor Janko listen your country is not yours because it is not drawn by orthophoto technique or Grauss-Kruger's map or I don't know which or by other technique. I just know that at the time of one respected minister we had to legalize the facilities and now it costs me another 3,000 kuna bills but I wonder if it will be legalized or not be in some future time because all cards are zero, all that has been done is zero and legalization itself. And that, I'll try to read you from this text. Croatia spent a 5 billion-euro loan and land books remain unusable. On 20 July 2018 crime, successful work by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Special Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, on 24 August 2018. It is a fact that the Land Book is entrusted to the Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia for maintenance and the right to use. 80% of the RH land book has been out of force since 18.11.1924. and the remaining 20% has been out of force since 1.1.2010. The President of the Republic of Croatia has appointed the main culprits for the fact that the Republic of Croatia does not have a spatial real estate register. The Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia is a state body with delegated powers, the State Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Croatia. The subject fact defines that a criminal offence is taking place in the official premises of the court. Counterfeiting public documents, falsified securities of the Republic of Croatia, unfounded acquisition of material gains of money without legal basis, abuse of positions and powers. Official premises of the court must be sealed or prevented so that no criminal offences would take place in the official premises of the court. The document I left in a hurry downstairs if anyone is interested I will personally show them that you can see where a document is copied in court in the same day with two conclusions and it has been on the DORH since 2002. There's no action yet. Exceptionally, the court is responsible for the robbery of 840 000 Croatian citizens under the Law on the Legalisation of Legalized Objects and Proposer of the Law, Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. Is my barn, the shed, in my village legalized, is all Gunja legalized, is RH legalized, I wonder if at some time and space someone will come and say, that's not good, that was illegal. The Court of Justice is responsible because it is in accordance with the Law on Land Books. 98 has not been registered in a filling in every land book, out of force of use since the day of the first 2010, and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the reason that it has reached a solution from the Administrative Procedure in accordance with the Law, a zero solution. Zero solutions that acquired power, enforcement, on the basis of which damage was done to citizens, such as the destruction of private property and the collection of baseless material search. There is much more, and I could read it, but I will only read the last, title of Epic Robbery, legalization of legally built facilities in physical space for 840,000 real estate owners is entrusted with the due supervision of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning of the Republic of Croatia. I wonder what that $5 billion was spent on, where's that money? Why isn't the cabinet of the Republic of Croatia taken care of? Who are those who have these resources? Where did those money go? That's what I'm interested in. I'm looking at you here, looking at you on behalf of all those who had to legalize their vaults, assholes, not to say and toilets, without inventory, to be in line with this country that many will enter both illegal and illegal and without any documents. I wonder on behalf of all these citizens why we didn't have legalization and all the normal states in the environment. Because someone needed an extra 5 billion euros without those that were delivered to us to solve everything. Don't let anyone be neglected. I'll read more. The peasants wonder where 850,000 hectares of agricultural land have gone. The fact is that the Republic of Croatia does not have all its land, has no insight into its properties, that is what Minister Maric himself often used to confirm here. We don't even know what we own. Kaki's the boss who doesn't know what he owns. Well, that's the boss who didn't create it, who didn't deserve it. The true master knows every inch, and where the stone is buried, where the furrow came, hit the stone, that's what the real boss knows. And the one who's not there, he doesn't know, because he's not there, he gets it from someone, and he gets it from those 5 billion Euros. How is it possible that a farm ministry official is involved in livestock farming in the Brdsko Mountain Areas. There's hundreds of acres of pasture, and there's not a single head of cattle. And neither does her colleague, maybe she does, nor her minister, and maybe she knows what we're talking about here? We beat up empty straw every day and I didn't want to hear from you for a long, long time, but this topic specifically asked me to come forward because of those who sometimes got something from someone who couldn't get legalized just because some people were sitting here, so they didn't let them do it. I wouldn't give it to you anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108206	We have one replica, dear fellow Music, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108207	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Culey, about the legalization you mentioned in your presentation, I can totally agree with you. However, this legalization has something and good, where we have put these objects in one system where we can have better both catastra and grantovnica tomorrow, which will be tomorrow. And what you said about state property, that the state doesn't know about state property, that's a shame on the shame, that in 28 years the state hasn't laid down its assets to know what it is. It's actually hard work, hard work, and I hate it, and I totally agree with you. It's impossible that in 28 years we haven't done basic things, and it's possible that in this country it was possible that we were only being respected, that we were getting salaries, and so in our red tape in Croatia, I am important, everything else is irrelevant. And that's what I agree with you, please you need to work, you need to agree, you need to do. If private people did what the state does, they'd all fall apart and just don't exist, they just couldn't, and we work, entrepreneurs work, pay taxes. They have to report everything, so go ahead and do the same thing in the country. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Work. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108208	We're going to the last individual, and I'm sorry, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108209	Comrade Mišic, you are right, when we go to our selfery and cross our coast, I see that legalization is not made for the sake of poverty, but for those who have illegally built objects that serve purpose and purpose and gain theirs. In Slavonia, the grandmother who had to legalize the facilities behind the late did that for 100 years with her ancestors, and the grandchildren went to Germany, couldn't legalize it and to whom it would belong. She can't pay communal fees for everything they've earned for centuries and it'll be who knows and how, taken away from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108210	We're going to the last debate now. Dear colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108211	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS, respected secretary of state, and now all the society of the DGU won't mind me saying so. I'll go back to the basic debate, and the basic debate is about the law. Legalisation would be the possibility of one entirely, quite another debate and about how and who did it and why he did it and what he didn't do, I would just say that what was 100 years old certainly didn't have to be legalized, everything that was older than February 15th 68th is legal in Croatia and then we won't have any problems. But let's go back to this law. So, as I already said on behalf of the club when I was discussing, the law is correct. I can't say he's not correct, but at some point you come up with a situation where you need to make a turn. We all struggle together, let's be honest and say we're struggling. We've got a garter, we've got a cadastre, we've got processes in the cadastre, we've got an unsettled cadastre, and there's always a legal obligation for you to take your papers to the cadastre and take them to the garland, record the state. We didn't do it. We didn't do it for a few reasons. We didn't, from what was subsidized, so then the property was in the cataster, it was done the moment some real estate was in traffic and the result of all that is today. With the fact that we need to know that really large parts of Croatia's cities are not done in the way that we should, in particular, always mention it, look at, say, Spain. Spanish is one settlement, which you see in the ortho photo all buildings in general, but these buildings also have a useful license, but they are not properly implemented and everything else. So that's one serious job. If we know it's a serious job, if we know that in 3600 catastrian municipalities about 400, my people, I've calculated for one debate, 208 years we need to do it in a certain way. So at one point we have to say people, the way we work is not good, or, let's do it one way, but let's do something faster and in order to make something faster, we always complicate our lives. I deliberately read the provisions of the law, let's not complicate our lives. I must admit, I remember, periods, out there somewhere before, I was as a young engineer working on technical examinations, you when you had a technical examination, then you were for a technical examination to get a useful permission, you had to bring in a recording of all the cadastra lines and formally you got a useful permit for the building had a recording of all the cadastres, delivered it to the cadastre and it wasn't recorded until the end. What I'm supposed to do at this point, it seems to me, I've talked a lot to the geodetics, and I've had a terrible deal of trouble, which and how. Let's get out of everything we have and try everything we have, put all these cards in one place, some layers, it seems to me to be a step, but today I am even more convinced than I was 4 or 5 years ago, a serious step is to make a single body of cadastre and grantovnica, to be a common process, a common way and it would be one serious reform in Croatia. I have to admit, I absolutely support what's in the law, and it's tied to the sea. Croatia is one of the few countries with land planning and sea planning. We have through spatial plans and sea planning, so we have a line of maritime goods and everything else, so we have a lot of things but we don't have it in one place. We should put that in one place and there's no other. Until then, let's be honest, torture ourselves. I'll tell you, I've got a bunch of projects I can talk about, one of the projects was Zagreb Airport. The Zagreb Airport, where there was morale, where there were two catastrian municipalities, when it all agreed with one, with the other, it was seen that the borders of the Catastrian municipalities did not match, the Zagreb Airport was supposed to be, to be, to get its Civilian license, we had a series of obligations that we should have had, and therefore, in the same body, there were not a hundred bodies, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning was issuing a construction permit, the State Geodetic Administration was under that Ministry, hours and hours were at meetings to see how to get out and to do that they get a building permit and everything else. I can't imagine the way that some investors go in the best way, they don't understand what we're saying, they don't understand when we tell them, but you know the cadastre doesn't match the garter. They're asking if it's the same country, it is. So what's wrong with it? Now, as we explain to them, we come to 45th, and then we explain that we have 68th, and then we determined from the 68th border of construction areas that were the borders of cities. They think we're a little off. They have every right to think. This law, I would indeed, sin on my soul to say that it is not technically correct, but with it we will not achieve what we want to achieve. He, the result of him, will not be that anything will be different. I really appreciate all the colleagues who work, I appreciate the geodetic profession, but I can't understand something, so today you already have satellite footage and everything else and every time you want to do something, we start over. They say geodetics, I called it in, said every geodette has in her trunk one, she's got rubber boots that she can go to the field. And every time we start from the beginning, we start from the beginning. If someone can explain it to me, why every time you start recording those, the most common methods, even though it's recorded 16 thousand times, I can't understand it. What am I trying to tell you? It takes a step, it takes something we know and we like to call it reform, but it really needs to be done. You're really coming up with some key moments, when that, it's time to do it. When you take it, then, I'll just have a relationship between the public service and the private service. You have private authorities, they're registered in the chamber, the ratio of the chamber and the state geodetic administration for a while hasn't worked very well, but as far as I know, it's working best now. So somebody explain to me, someone who's an authority, do something, and now it comes to the credentials, this guy just needs to snap the seal and say it, so he's got all the elements he's got, but you don't do it, you go back and control what he's done. At some point, there's got to be trust in those powers. When the first authority does something wrong, take away the authority, don't do it anymore, but don't double-control it, it's a double job. It's a step. It's a small step that can be made. The authorization officer recorded it, coming to the clearance no matter what the cadastre or so somewhere in the cadastre, there's no need to control it again if this guy did it right. What am I trying to tell you? Imagine that in the construction permit process for complex objects you have a static, you have a static revision and comes to the issue of a building permit, this says, I'm sorry, I finished or finished building, I'm going to take a little control of the static and little control of that audit. That's what I'm talking about. So at one point you really need a process not only to be the essence of a list of beautiful desires as it is in this law but really that process needs to be speeded up. One of the accelerations is what I just said, so in the process itself and the other I repeat it one more time, you have a fix. First you do the cadastre, then you have a first-degree solution to the cadastre, then there can be a complaint and a second-degree solution, and then after two or three years of calmly saying I solved the cadastre. No, we're going to the garret shop and start over. There's no progress. There's no such thing as a step-up. Do something. So when I was a resolute minister, I talked a lot, and at one point the geodetics told me why you don't love us, I say it's not love or not love, but it's a thing, do something. It's the task of every profession to make some kind of shift, to get faster to the final solution. So I'm from this position just saying, this is not what was supposed to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108212	We have four replicas, the first respected colleague, Klaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108213	Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, the fact is that this is one step forward and, as you said yourself, I believe you'll also support that as well. What's the fact that this step is like this, it was supposed to be done 10 years ago because it takes years to fix a cadastre. It's the same fact that you said that investors don't care about these problems of ours, when they're only going to be interested in one thing, when they can get the land, when they can start building. If you tell them right away, then they're coming, and I'm in contact with them every day. But the most serious step will be when we provide these people with a sufficient number of expert staff and provide enough resources to do this because what is now happening on the ground, that cities and municipalities finance, co-finance and judicial advisors and notebooks and scribes, and I don't know what municipalities and cities want to start to pay for this issue. So, we're too late, too late, the law is good, we need to support it, but we all need to get our heads together and do this other job that's operational.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108214	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108215	Thank you very much. So you have something that's correct, but there's not going to be any better results than it's ever been, and we know that it won't be and we don't need to fool ourselves that it will be. If any of us had a magic wand, I'm sure this problem would be used by a magic wand because it's frustrating for all of us. It frustrations the mayors and mayors in a mountain of problems, frustrating investors. What I'm saying all the time is, at one point, it's really necessary to make a decision at the highest possible level. We are now participants in the abolition of agencies, unifications, why no step has been made and the grantovnica has been said and the cadastre will be agreed as a common body, for a start that would be one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108216	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Taritash, yes, you said investors get lost in that whole situation when they come up with some indecisive cases. I'd just like to remind you, we've talked about this more than once, about the right to build. We have introduced the Institute of Building Rights and we have not yet solved the situation if one project gets a building permit with one right of construction where, for example, local self-government units and on the other hand, you have your own land investor, to close the whole case no matter what you get a building permit, you start to lose yourself in the administration tunnel and you'll have a very difficult time solving that problem. I think that if we've definitely declared some institute, if we're working on the right of construction to be an institute that units of local self-government apply, I think we need to find a way to end how to solve all the applicable permits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108218	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108219	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned a problem that we discussed on several occasions, and this problem does not apply to this law or to any law but refers to the way someone does his job. At a time when, therefore, we are all full of mouths of people who are in power, especially with respect to or with building permits, and I always feel there is no way to solve the problem but how the problem does not solve. I would say that the big step will be when everyone who works realizes that they actually get paid from the budget and budgets full of investors and that it is not their role and tasks for these investors to make life difficult, how to put 100 times their foot in the door, rather than how, in accordance with the laws and rules of the profession, it is the fastest possible to come to a solution. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108220	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108221	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Taritash, you have therefore once again warned of the complexity of the problem. You're here talking about the inconsistencies of the catastrophe and the garland, and that must be one problem that needs to be solved. However, there is only then a start because and then we have one next problem for investors, very dangerous, and also for units of local self-government, and that is the inconsistency of these two states when they comply with the situation,... the real state of the room. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So sometimes things get complicated to the point where these actions take a long time, and in that sense, I think what you're saying is important. And another example, man, let's say a private investor and when he gets a building permit, when he hires all the authorized engineers, when he gets a useful license. And then he's surprised, someone tells him, but your house hasn't been drawn yet. That's what a lot of people don't know, and then you just have to go back to paying the geodetic to draw that object, you have to draw it in space. And because of that and sometimes because of ignorance, people sometimes and because of failure don't get a lot done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108222	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108223	So I could figure it out, you always don't like years of being charged. So when you guys haven't been rebuilding anything for years and you don't work, it comes to your charge. There you can use several methods and there you have watched what some other countries do. To me personally, it is somehow the most acceptable Scandinavian model that you do so in a way that when you get a building permit, that is to say, when you make an application for the beginning of the works, you immediately register in the catastra a draft of the extermination. And as the house does so, the records go, and at the end of the day when the house is finished, you get a useful license because it's consistent with each other. It's one of the models that have Scandinavian countries that's very operational, but a lot more, a lot more, let's be serious waters under the Sava Bridge until we're ready for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108224	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108225	We're going to step out of the dark. Let's step out in a way to answer yes or no, you don't have to explain much to me. When you acted as Minister, did you also see one euro of these dedicated funds that came to Croatia to resolve the catastra issues and did you use it for purpose where and how and whether your facility was legalized or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108226	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108227	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Representative Culey, here's my first chance to go with you regardless of what we're on the other side of the pay phone to answer you for something, so I can tell you about these dedicated funds, they went to the World Bank, it was decided by the Ministry of Justice and the State Geodesy Administration and all the funds that were spent for purpose and the explanation was that they were at the World Bank and on legal facilities. I have an apartment that's in the house that was built before '68, so '32. Or '31. and I didn't have any legalisation problems but legalization as a project was extremely important to me, legalization was extremely important to me, and I think that thanks to the legalization of our citizens, they got legal property, a legalisation solution... change the applicable licence and they can be recorded without a problem both in the cataster and in the garnery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108228	Thank you very much. We'd end this debate on this point, so I'm closing it and we'll vote on it when the conditions come to pass. We now move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 363. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Law, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. During the debate, the president of the proposer accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendment to the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU. Here you go, Secretary of State, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108230	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment, since those provisions prescribe the types of use of buildings and, in the context of a particular type of use, the actual way in which buildings are used. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108231	Thank you. It's a sign of the Advocacy Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108232	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, what is this really about? It's about sharing buildings according to their purpose and the way they use it, so occasionally they're going to cause confusion, and they're going to create a mess, and they're actually going to introduce a commitment to our citizens. Imagine, let's say you use occasionally and then you decide to use it over and over again, every time you change into a catastrophe. So, if we want to mess up with the mess, then this is the way. If we're going to put in some kind of order, then one other way. I therefore ask the vote on this amendment which you have not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108234	Final proposal of the State Measurement Act and the Realty Cataster, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 363. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Amendments of the Committee on Legislatives were accepted by the applicant during the debate. We held a statement on the amendment of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU at the meeting held on 30 November 2018. We will now vote on an amendment which the motionary does not accept. So please vote on the amendment of the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. And I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Real Estate. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 97 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the State Measurement Act and the Realty Cataster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108235	Dear MPs and MPs will now come together to discuss the following two points that we have already agreed on, these are, therefore, to remind: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos, with a final proposal of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 467; - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 468; Proposer of acts is Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Does the president want to give an additional explanation? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Željko Plazonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. So, the vice president has already said about these two draft amendments to the Law. So the first is the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos which regulates and how the health status of workers exposed to asbestos, the procedure for diagnosing professional diseases caused by asbestos, the bodies responsible for monitoring the health condition and the bodies responsible for conducting the diagnostic procedure in case of suspicion of a professional disease caused by asbestos and the second is the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos which regulates and recognises the damages of workers caused by asbestos. Afterwards, the procedure and the body responsible for the resolution of the damage claims and the provision of funds for the payment of compensation claims by workers suffering from occupational diseases caused by asbestos. Conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies and institutes, foundations and other legal entities with public authority adopted by the Government of the Republic on 2 August 2018 and for the purpose of implementing the National... The reform programme in 2018 has been established that since 1 January 2019 the Croatian Institute for Public Health Croatian Institute for Public Health has taken over the work carried out by the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of the amendments to the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers of professionally exposed asbestos, the provision relating to the part of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. The implementation of this Act provides resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, 2020 and 2021 and does not require additional resources in the state budget. In accordance with Article 204(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed to adopt this Act by emergency procedure, and in order to avoid the occurrence of legal gaps, taking into account the fact that, since 01 January 2019, the Croatian Institute of Public Health is taking over the tasks carried out by the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, which is a particular reason for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108237	Thank you, although short of your presentation has caused a number of replicas, so the first one will be the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108238	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. I'm obliged to ask you one question about your opening part. It is a question raised by the letter I received from citizens from the Queen, Mr Lazarevic. In Croatia, from 1990 to 2015, 1517 patients with occupational asbestos-related diseases were registered, Mr Filipovic is one of them. He is concerned because he does not get an answer from your ministry, as for 11 months now, the Committee on Asbestosis does not function, to call him that, and simply all citizens suffer from asbestos are not able to exercise their legal rights provided for by the Law on the compensation of asbestos patients, since this does not work. Why isn't it working and when it's going to start working?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108239	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108240	I'm very sorry that you got that letter and that these commissions don't work. I must say personally that I am not familiar with this fact that this commission is not working, and I suggest that the gentleman personally contact us at the Ministry, in the office, that we will immediately settle this by emergency procedure, and I will check when I return why the commission has not worked so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108241	The next replica of the respected representative Mladen Karlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108242	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. And I'm wondering if you have any information on how many damage claims have been resolved regarding... With a business condition... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Asbesto and how much longer he's in the process, do you maybe have the information... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108243	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108244	No, that kind of information I don't know by heart, it'd be a little too much to know everything by heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108245	The next replica of the respected representative Ante Bačić. We have to go in order.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108246	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. You are on the trail of colleagues from the SDP that he has set up, I must confirm the same about the information of former worker Salonita Vranjic, it has not been working for some year and a half, the reason is very simple but banal, and that is because some members of the Committee have either retired, or for such reasons no longer participate in the Committee, so here I appeal to you. You gave the opening part of the answer, I appeal to you to form the Commission as soon as possible, to work in continuity, to watch out for these changes in the status of certain members of the Committee, related to damage claims, and general health care, damages, workers who suffer from asbestos, simply can't wait for a body to form, but must do so continuously because new requirements with age are only increasing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108247	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108248	The answer is basically the same as he was to a respected colleague, Jovanovic. But I don't think the Committee as such is the only one responsible for not solving these patients and these asbestos-treated damages. There are those who are previously important, the commission is the one that gives some basic guidance, but it's not the one, the entity that has to decide on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108249	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108250	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm not going to talk about the danger of health to asbestos, to the health of citizens, because they're already talking about both knowledge and birds on the branch, that's the legacy of the past, the legacy that we have civilizedly inherited. I wonder if the Fund has dried up, how will the problem of about 1,000 tonnes of asbestos material be solved on the roofs of the city of Rijeka and will they welcome the year when it will become a city of European culture, a city of culture with such roofs, and how will this be solved? Is the City and County going to help with that? If you have information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108251	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108252	I'm sorry I don't work at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because then I'd probably be a little bit more information about how all these salivas will be taken care of, all these tons of asbestos roofs in the City of Rijeka. I think it's a question for the other Ministry and that they should take care of it and find a methodology, and you're probably asking that because there were some, as far as I know, locations in the Primorje-Goran County for taking care of asbestos that never came to life because of the disagreement between the local community where these dumps were supposed to be built, so it's probably one of the reasons why you sent this letter, but it's the local community, the Primor-Gorski County, and this part is part of the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108253	The next replica of the respected representative, Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108254	Dear Mr. Secretary, I don't know why they sent you, you have no idea about this, and what's here is a matter that obviously someone should have come here who should have known the matter. The commission that solves the problems of asbestos - affected people is a commission that finally gives its opinion and that is why they exercise their rights. On the other hand, you're talking about recovery and dumps. The dumps are not the way you're getting rid of asbestos, asbestos has to be burned, removed and burned, therefore, I'm sorry that they exposed you here and sent you because it's not your area, but again on the other side you should have people from the Croatian Institute who are now abolishing, and this is a picture of what will happen when you remove one Institute that is very important in that people can exercise their rights and are suffering from asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108255	Before answering, colleague Mršić, it is not appropriate to speak to colleagues or state secretaries, ministers and others that they have no idea, remember that some of your colleagues are very sensitive when mentioned in the past, their mistakes in the past, etc., let alone that someone has no idea. Let's be on a level, so, uh, there's something we can agree on, something we don't have to agree with, but it's not nice to tell someone he doesn't have a clue, because then, of course, it's giving birth to a reaction on the other side, and then, especially on your part, some of your former colleagues are creepyly sensitive to any remark, and they're letting themselves say anything. They're going to answer something of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108256	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I could now also say in a way that you obviously did not read these new draft laws because the committees have certain powers that are included in the Law as such, so you should also know the legal regulations and what is the domain of the Committee. By the way, I thank you for saying about me that I have no idea about asbestos, really asbestos is not my rope action, but I know what the law says, about how the law is handled. Whether taking care of asbestos is exactly burning or something, about it, I don't think this was the time to talk about it at all, but here I congratulate you on your good knowledge of asbestos management as a building material that is no longer being used.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108257	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, you yourself said that the national reform programme for 2018 in reducing agencies only discussed this in the Croatian Parliament, the abolition of the Office of State Administration, that we do not have certain parallelisms in society and that, of course, there has been a scandal in the public domain of those who do not advocate this path, or on our parliamentary committees, so here I am publicly asking you, is it possible, that the Croatian Institute for Public Health can take over the Croatian Institute for the Protection of Health and Safety Protection on this matter, since this is an emergency procedure, and you yourself have said that because of the legal, that these legal gaps actually do not happen, these two laws must be passed by the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108259	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108260	So if we end the seduction of some, then we do not end the people who worked in these institutions. And these same people who have worked at the Bureau so far will continue to work in a new organisational scheme that will be subordinated to this Institute working in the same way that it has worked so far and perhaps even better given these, as far as I've heard there are objections to its work and its functioning. Therefore, we do not abolish people, we are only organisational structures of this Law and these amendments to the Law, and functionality and everything else should remain the same, with what follows seduction, the Administrative Council, etc., it will in some way save the financial in the future because they will no longer be necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108261	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108262	I thank Mr. Vice-President, the Honorable Secretary of State, so here is today perhaps these amendments to the law are primarily technical, and not the very contentable nature and I absolutely believe that the Croatian Institute of Public Health with the accession of the Croatian Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work will perform quality. Those shortcomings that exist, they can be corrected relatively quickly, but here it is, so I hope that this Government of the Republic of Croatia, headed by Mr. Andrej Plenkovic, will not stand on board, because I think we have too many agencies and too many different institutions that do not have the need to be separated, have separate accounting, legal and economic services, so I think we should continue in that direction and go in that direction. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108263	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Here you are, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108264	Respect, I thank you, dear secretary of state, I may, among the few, highly appreciate you in the health care system that you can contribute with your experience, but I don't understand who put this hot potato on you, because these are really technical amendments to the law, but the problem isn't that simple. The problem of the use of asbestos in Croatia, the ban on use, the problem of asbestos, whether professional, whether domicile, the problem of contaminating the entire area with asbestos fibers is not so simple and can be done only by institutions that are specialised. I think at this point, if the Croatian Institute of Public Health integrates this second Institute, which disappears, to protect health and safety at work, may have results, but I am very afraid for these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108265	Thank you. Now will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first Club of Representatives will be the HDZ, in the name of which the respected representative Mladen Karlic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108266	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here are two proposals that look like it's technically actually changing a little bit, so on the one hand it's harmonising with the legislation... the harmonisation of EU legislation with the acquis of the EU and, on the other hand, because of the reduction of the number of agencies, the conclusion of the Croatian Government since 2 August is a transition from the Croatian and the Ministry of Health and Safety in Work to the HZJZ, respectively, is taking over these jobs with these employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what's kind of important here is to point out maybe because I think that a large number of our citizens have a great fear, so maybe often even unwarranted from asbestos itself and the use of asbestos. What's important to know that since 2006 in Croatia it is completely prohibited to put on the market or use asbestos fibers and products containing asbestos and 6 types of asbestos are banned. Of these 6 types of asbestos, 2 are the most dangerous, it's amozite and blue asbestos or crocidolite. What's also important, asbestos isn't harmful until it's touched. He is dangerous when cut, when drilling, when damaged, when especially children play with him in various landfills unaware of what is involved. But the consequences of the use of this material in the past and are present today, as well as the workers of the salon, and some other companies who have been in contact with it for years and for this reason, and we have actually 6 independent diseases that can occur after exposure to asbestos, and in one longer time, means 10, 20, 30 and more years of use, and of course of those perhaps the mildest forms of lung cancer to cancer, lungs and neighboring bronch... organs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is very important that we have a solution to this law which should protect citizens but, of course, all other institutions should also be involved in this process to ensure that asbestos or these asbestos products are less commonly used, used, imported or any other contact which could later cause any of these professional diseases which, of course, leave lasting consequences and cause, of course, the need for this one commission to work as often as possible, quality, means, and, of course, to monitor every 3 years, and patients who have suffered from this particular disease, and therefore, it is important that this law regulates and recognises the damages of workers caused by asbestos diseases, means the procedure of the body responsible for resolving, the initial requests for the provision of funds for the payout, the damage claims of workers, and, of course, that the system accepts it from the Croatian Institute for the protection of Health and Safety of Health and Safety, and so that they are not necessarily less likely to be exposed to the workers. Here's the HDZ will support these two laws in an emergency procedure because it's very important that we bring it in by 1.1.2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108267	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club is on behalf of which the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108268	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support these two legislative amendments under the Law on the Compensation of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbesto and the Law on Obligatory Health Control of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbesto, for the simple reason that it is important to ensure and regulate the recognition of the damages of all workers affected by asbestos, procedures and bodies in charge of resolving damage claims and providing funds for the payment of damages from all occupational diseases associated with asbestos. But as always, it's easy to change the law if the law doesn't work. So you saw from the representatives of all the clubs who spoke intro as a replica to the secretary of state who really didn't do anything. The asbestos commission to call it that, it doesn't work, and maybe it's a good thing that this debate of ours has been encouraging it to work as soon as possible, so it's 11 months. All those who are ill, who have a professional disease as a consequence of asbestos exposure, cannot resolve their rights because the commission does not work and at the same time despite the parliamentary issue I have referred to despite the writing of citizens from the Queen who eventually addressed me, neither he nor I have received answers for which this commission does not work. Also today, we can express the skepticism of the termination of the work of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, I do not think that HZJZ is able to take over all the jobs carried out by the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work but I must also stress this time that when citizens in Croatia leave for retirement live healthier, shorter double than their colleagues in the EU, which shows how much protection and safety at work must be improved and therefore important work and important step towards the HZZZ is that everything that the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work has done is doing well, to do even better and to improve what was not good. So, I'm not going to talk much about asbestos today, it's important to say that from 1990 to 2015 from the time of the professional disease register, there are 4 187 professional diseases registered in Croatia, of which 1517 professional diseases are due to asbestos exposure, which is 36.2%. The most ill also come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, 56.7%, Split-Dalmatia County 31.4% and Primorje-Gorski County 7.5%. Of course, it's because of the character of industry, so most often the workers of Plobest, Salonite, Brodosplit and Oil. Therefore, I call on everyone to have this debate and to accept these, indeed technical changes as well as to encourage the Commission to start working as soon as possible and to fulfil its obligations so that everyone is professionally ill with asbestos-related diseases to receive adequate protection. Of course, here we can ask the Environmental Protection Fund, which is why it has stopped subsidising waste management containing asbestos, we know that numerous roofs and facades in Croatia contain asbestos and that until 2016 it has been subsidized to the disposal of this waste. Today we have a subsidization of the energy restoration of buildings, but somehow the roofs and facades that contain asbestos above the focus of the Fund, which is not good, if we know that it was taken care of somewhere in 2016 by 60 thousand tons of asbestos in waste. There is still a lot of waste in Croatia that should be taken care of in a quality way, so perhaps a call from this discussion to the Fund to consider, to find the means to subsidise asbestos-containing waste, here is a colleague named Bacic. In 2014, a joint thematic session of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Environment Protection Committee, which has just drawn very good conclusions on asbestos, would be good to read them again and see if they are realised and if they are not realised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108269	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108270	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In our Rules of Procedure, we do not have the ability to hold the thematic sessions of the Parliament, and the problems of asbestos would deserve such a thematic session in the Republic of Croatia. So let me, no matter what the technical changes to the two laws, let me say a little bit more about this monster, because somewhere with the beginning of my work protection at the Uljanic shipyard, I met with the problem of asbestos, even though that problem was already in the shipbuilding industry at sunset at that time, because the intensive use of asbestos in the shipbuilding industry was between the 60s and 70s of the last century, and it was the first industry to experience professional illnesses and cancerous diseases caused by asbestos confirmed, diagnosed in all relevant places, I speak already in the former state. We need to know that the former state from which we draw and have taken over most of the legislation has adopted the Convention of International Labour Organization and banned the use of asbestos. And that was before the creation of the Croatian state, but we did not respect this obligation to respect the Convention in our country. We started, or continued to produce, or to process asbestos, someone made a very good profit on the production of asbestos cement pipes that were built under the highway to drain the rainwaters. Well earned, wiped out, and left us a public-health problem, because if it hadn't been for that, responsibility wouldn't have fallen to the state. It has fallen to the state because it is evident that even during the ban on the use of asbestos and asbestos processing, we have dealt with this activity, and that is why the Law on the Prohibition of the Need for asbestos was passed in 2007, because we have accepted in the negotiating chapter that we will not use asbestos, i.e. the ban on the use of asbestos, and therefore we have, among other things, this problem that we are unconsistently solving. Why? We solved through the pension system one part of this public-health problem but we closed the door, we said these and none more, or these, and if the commission decides that anyone else will be declared to have a professional, asbestos disease, regardless of whether it's a professional exposure or domicile asbestos because asbestos is somehow evidenceable. No one can say when asbestos will occur, either in the form of cancer, or in the form of fibrosis, or in the form of a thickening of the pleura. It's a particle that's inserted into the tissue and created its shell, when it, it can stay there until it's dead and never develops, can develop after 3, 5, 15, 20 years, never know who's going to have that one shell in which the particle is stuck in the tissue, which will start to develop further into malignant tissue. So we solved the asbestos problem in Brodogradnja in such a way that people received compensations that, some lived briefly, some are still alive today. However, because of the problem specifically at the Brodyard of Ulnik and 3. May, they don't get their damages, they don't get their damages at this point. So we have one problem with these people who have asbestos. We have one problem at Plobest Ploče who had never had an advocate here in HS, as Salonita Vranjic had and who had no support from the then president of the Croatian Union Association, so Plobest Ploche remained somewhere on the side, and they were doing brake slippers for the automotive industry at a time when those brake slippers were mainly made of asbestos, they were never able to get into a group that was compensated for being exposed to asbestos because it was, of course, in one, in the last state, but the citizens of this country and I think that access to all should be equal. And then those who were really into this country came, so, processing and installing asbestos into asbestos cement pipes, and when it stopped, of course, they were out of work, but they were left with a diagnosis, and there was a Law adopted in 2010 that was trying to partially solve this public health problem. However, a large number of people are still outside the box, and the Commission, as already said from several clubs, is not working. Why doesn't the Committee do that? I don't know. Mr. Plazonic cannot be held accountable because all the requirements for identification and damages are with Minister Pavić because the Ministry of Labour and Pensions has been situated at the Institute for Health and Safety at Work, and this Committee has addressed the problem. So, the Institute of Public Health will have to take a step back, overcome the whole problem, integrate the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, or their people who almost all know about it and run the Commission to recognise the damage claims because the number of asbestos patients cannot be said, now there is enough, there is no, because precisely because of the fact that I initially said that you never know when this microparticle in the organism will be activated. This is the problem of asbestos and all the problems of the use of asbestos and all the negative phenomena associated with asbestos. What is still proven by this, by this hasty merger and association of this Institute for Health and Safety at Work, is that we do not want to join the Republic of Croatia specialists in certain areas, and such a one institution should have the task of entering the least pores of individual problems. Al, that's not the end of it. You must draw up a system of protection at work where you have so far had the Department of Safety at Work, you had the Institute for Health Protection and Safety at Work. So one had a technical aspect, one had a health aspect and you had a third factor, you had a trolist, and the third one was HZO to protect health at work. So, if we were a normal country like Austria, then this problem would be viewed as asbestos as harmful, these would be viewed as a health-related poison, and damages would be addressed by HZZO health protection at work. That's how it is in normally positioned countries where you know who's doing what. Here and how the Croatian Institute of Public Health will decide on the level of compensation, whether or not it will remain in the jurisdiction of a Commission or the question of compensation in the jurisdiction of the court and primarily the court or, let's say some case law. I deeply doubt this will go elegantly and slowly. I think we're going to create a large number of problems precisely because we don't specialize in certain activities or we don't have specialised institutions to solve individual problems. I have to say, you know, this HZZO and health protection at work was financed by contributions and those who used pests and dangers, were those physical, chemical, whether it was asbestos or some other harmful substance. They paid, therefore, the employers paid 0.5% on the salary which was to be financed by this Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work. Now, since January 1st next year, there isn't, there isn't. It is all going to the burden of public insurance, or all of this will have to be borne by the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. So we didn't know how to use means that weren't small. It was half a billion kuna. We didn't know how to say it was for asbestos damage. We will now generalise everything and all will be carried by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute on the basis of general insurance. We have never used funds in this country for purpose, not for professional rehabilitation and training of disabled people. We've always raised 100 million kunas at year level and spent 50. There's always someone else who's managed those resources. The Croatian Institute for Health Insurance at Work was also managed by the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. They were never used not in a way, not their product this one newsletter injury at work, insurance against injuries at work etc. But it's only one part of something where awareness should develop about the need for insurance from these possible problems that we have today with asbestos. Do we know that all the materials we're introducing today in the process of work won't cause a similar epidemic in 10, 15, 20 years? Let's say a local epidemic. Because indeed the pool around Ploč, the pool around Vranjica, the swimming pools around the shipyard and what our colleague Jovanovic was saying and our roofs that break, break down, crash, are the source of such an epidemic, i.e. the risk of asbestos disease and not of those people who professionally cut it, built on it, but only those living in the neighborhood with asbestos-containing materials. It's true, if I don't touch it, I can do whatever I want. But if I break it, break it, store it, cut it, grind it, then the problem is big because the problem is created in that asbestos dust. Therefore, I wish you good luck. I cannot accept that the Croatian Institute of Public Health or the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance covers the entire area. I'd like it a lot more if we had people who are specialists and who we respect for certain areas than this way that we put everything on the pile, so we don't know who's going to solve it. And unfortunately, I can't support your good intentions and the Voice and HSU Club won't support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108271	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to be respected representative of Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108272	Thank you very much. After discussions on behalf of colleagues Hrelje, colleagues Jovanovic and others, it is evident that this is a huge problem to talk about openly because simply these people who have suffered from asbestos simply and die and do not exercise their right to compensation from this disease in their workplaces. But also those who live nearby. So here's to say, in the area of Vranjica, we have shipyards, we have so it's a Split swimming pool of 30,000 people and the question is how many people got sick because that means after 25 years, 30 years this disease is activated as explained by a colleague of Hrelja to activate that particle or dust that enters the lungs only after 30 years or more. Many die, but it's not activated. But unfortunately, we see that there are a large number of people who are sick and dying, so we simply need to talk seriously about this problem. I would just ask here a few questions to the esteemed secretary because here it is mainly about people who have been damaged or at their professional workplace or who live nearby... these industries which have been in the area below of Neretva County, down Ploča, Split-Dalmatia County around Vranjica were such industries, above the Uljanik shipyards that were engaged. However, the fact is that in Dalmatia, 90% of the people who have suffered from this example are. I wonder if, with this law, the commission that should begin with the work so far, what will it be for those who have suffered from asbestos, which means this law, which means to pay their damages, damages? How much is the means for their treatment because we have to predict it? Because we simply vote here on a law where colleagues warn well. What do we get if we step on the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance and Safety at the workplace and combine it with the Croatian Institute for Public Health? Is that going to speed up solutions or... this special office that's been dealing with this very serious problem, because I repeat again only the Splitian pool has 300 thousand people? According to American research that says that particles spread within 11 km, which means that there are only 300 thousand people living in that area and not workers coming from other parts of the area, from Zagora who come to the Split swimming pool to work that means over half a million people are only in Split's pool threatened by the dust of asbestos and asbestos and the question of what's going to happen. The most important thing here is to talk about the effects of this commission by means of funds when it will be paid and how it is regulated by these new amendments, i.e. By shutting down, i.e. By connecting, by fusing one of the offices. I come from these parts, I've been talking to a number of people, there are people who live near me, who have worked in that area, the industrial area of the Split swimming pool, and these are people who have been sick in their workplace, and these are tragedies in their families and these people have been, and they've been doing a lot of this for the last 10 years, the law has been given, the institutions are being established, but I'm curious what this commission is solving these people, whether it's going to speed up the payoff or it's going to be as it is now. This is the most important question, but the fact that even what is a colleague of Hrelja, I must repeat, that the Croatian Institute of Public Health is essentially, we are shutting down one special part of these problems that was like asbestos, and you should, if you can explain to us the difference between the amendments and the abolition of this law, but we expect the Committee to start working as soon as possible and at least compensate for the lives of these people, and not to let a number of people die, not to experience that and that their families have to solve these problems, which have been caused to them, here is this problem, which is the problem where they should find the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108273	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108274	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bulj, in my debate, I mentioned the thematic session held by the Committee on Health and the Environment, and there is an important conclusion, so I will read it to you, about what you said. For the purpose of early swelling of new asbestos cases related to human health in areas where stronger exposure to asbestos has been identified, the need for a prospective study is determined, given the long incubation of the disease, i.e. long latent symptoms up to 30 years and above, the study would long-term follow-up of the population exposed with an active search for asbestos cases at an earlier stage of the disease. It is proposed that the institution of the study be the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, and that county public health institutions of those counties should also participate where increased exposure to asbestos has been established. Therefore, this conclusion should also be transferred to the Croatian Institute of Public Health, since it has obviously not been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108275	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108276	Thank you, dear colleague Jovanovic, the fact is that we must be aware that we are all at risk coming from these areas and those who come to visit, tourists were threatened at that time, but the fact is that they are not only the people who, they are the most vulnerable who have worked and have professionally suffered from asbestos, but in round 11, according to research, 11 kilometers means for Split, 300 thousand people who live alone, without those who have come to work, migrated on a daily basis. And it's a serious undertaking, and that conclusion really needs to be respected and done in a study, because if that disease is activated after 30 years or 40 years, then it's a huge problem, and it's just a big problem, and it just needs to come into the minds of all people that we're all at risk, not just one group of people who worked in these industries and these factories, but that's a broader aspect, that we're all, so we can get that disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108277	The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108278	All those who suffer from asbestos will be treated and receive some compensation from state money from the state budget. In that state budget, you, I pay, pay all those who look at us, but you know who doesn't, whose money they won't be treated for? Those whom we celebrate, the conquerors of Davis Cup, Borna Ćorić, Marin Cilic, Ivan Dodig, Mate Pavić, live in tax haven't paid a tax here, since their money is no benefit to these patients, but they are hugged by the people of the president of the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108279	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108280	I can tell my colleague Stazic that the biggest promoters of the Republic of Croatia are athletes, whether I agree with them or not. Sport promoted the Republic of Croatia in the best way, more than all ambassadors, all politicians who were in this House, who were on the other side, who cost more than all politicians. I even believe that the Croatian athletes are very few from local, regional to state level, mainly in developed areas. So talk about athletes I wouldn't want, I didn't check where anyone lives, who's in the diaspora, of course we're all taxpayers, but athletes are the best ambassadors of the Republic of Croatia. I can personally say I'm proud. All the investments that have been made by the ministries, the governments, our athletes have done more for them for Croatia than everyone who sat in this House together before and before 90th and after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108281	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108282	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Kolega Bulj, I can agree with you regarding the amount of more materials that are particularly located in Split-Dalmatia County, which are related to asbestos and have been in the circle especially in the edges of both Solin and Split, not to mention Vranjic. I just have to correct you, as far as the workers' damages were concerned, then they went when the Salonite went bankrupt, there was a short bill that the government degraded the workers. The truth is that part of the workers still had no compensation, and as far as this commission is concerned, to argue that they should start working, the Commission works in continuity, formed by the Government, about compensation, was just a problem these past year, had no quorum for some members who went into retirement or for some other reason, so that goes to their own course, other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108283	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108284	Thank you very much. It's not a question at all, but the fact that many people have been hard to achieve their rights, you've suffered from asbestos, the fact is that we've also had a number of miners in the Split swimming pool area, Mravince, where it's been put off in a way that's been put off both illegally and legally, and it's been improperly delayed and these people are threatened, so we're not just talking about workers. This triba to expand that everyone in the Split swimming pool area, when we talk about the Split swimming pool, and about the Rijeka swimming pool, where it was, uh, er, wherever Brodogradnja is, means, we're talking about a whole pool and illegal even dumps where the Salonite, where the dust is being put off, is, broken pipes, so here we're talking about a wide aspect, and not just the professionally ill, which, of course, were, the most endangered. That's why I'm curious, to have my answer answered when the commission will start, what about Studio's coworker, the conclusion, which he mentioned from the the thematic session, what he did and that that they're all threatened in that pool. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108285	Thank you. Thank you very much. Before we continue, allow us to welcome together the delegation of the regional representative council of the Republic of Indonesia at the diplomatic gallery. ... We'll move on now, so we have a replica of the respected representative Ante Babic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108286	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Bulj, I'm surprised you didn't remember that until the 1990s when you mentioned the Lagnje pool, this pool around Solin, and even about Plobest in the Plates, that you didn't remember, let's say, the former state did nothing to protect against asbestos and certain compensations related to those people who did so. So, in the modern Republic of Croatia, much has been done. What we're bringing here today, these amendments to the two Bills, they have nothing to do with that Law on the compensation of workers from professionally exposed asbestoss. We are just working here not to create legal gaps, that what was related to the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work is going to the Croatian Institute for Public Health. That's what these laws are all about, and I'm going to talk about these other things on individual debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108287	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108288	I can agree with you, I just don't know where you got this, uh, that I forgot to tell you, there were industries in that area where people were working at that time or we implying maybe something else, I don't know what you're with that I forgot something on purpose. The fact that people have worked in this area, the fact that in the 1980s it was necessary to ban it and it was signed not to work from asbestos pipes in the former state, that asbestos is not used at all. Al, however, it has been used and this is the fact and the fact that the same people lived in this area, that they will get the same people. So, in the former Yugoslavia, the same people lived in the same area right now. I'm not saying it's an individual's fault, but it's the system's fault if we don't pay off, if we haven't done the conclusions, which state was at this point it's the least important. The fact is, these industries were in those pools, in these areas, and now we have consequences. We have consequences we need to resuscitate. And we, we are here authorized by the Ministry of Health to base a number of conclusions to be made, here is one of the conclusions that has been mentioned, regardless of the political option for these people to be compensated, not [[Intruder: Thank you]] Just the workers, everyone at that pool. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108289	Thank you very much. Next individual debate, respected representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this debate today is not only a technical debate, but it is a debate about what will happen to asbestos in the Republic of Croatia with workers who have been exposed to asbestos and what will happen to all those who should receive just compensation for the disease they have received and who are not themselves to blame. At the beginning of my debate, I would read Mr Tomislav Grgic's statement from Vranjic, which very clearly described what was going on with people who had been exposed to asbestos. You know exactly who's in Vranjica next in line to go, the symptoms are easily recognized, you go to the hospital, they take the water out of your lungs, come home, but you're aware that in half a year you're done. It's not a nice death, it's dying in pains I wouldn't wish for anyone. Grgic will calmly note that it will be another 20 years. In the EU, it is estimated that the peak of the patients will be 2018, and in the Republic of Croatia asbestos was banned only in 2006, and we do not respect it either. The total removal of asbestos from the Republic of Croatia should be one of the priorities of all governments and this is one of the EU priorities, and removing asbestos from the Republic of Croatia is not only a physical removal, but it is an education, information, training for civil servants, a programme for financing asbestos removal, an activity to raise awareness of the removal of asbestos and asbestos-containing products. It is also the supervision of the effectiveness of existing legal rules, the assessment of exposures etc. And today many workers are exposed to asbestos even though formally the Republic of Croatia should be a country without asbestos or at least a country where asbestos is not imported. This is especially true in the sectors of maintenance and decontamination, but potentially affects many other interests such as roof coverings, electricians, heating installers, workers in recycling companies, health coordinators and labour protection, labour inspectors and many others. The ban on asbestos in the Republic of Croatia is not something that will lead to asbestos disappearing from the Republic of Croatia. And what the government is doing now is abolishing the labour inspectorate, attaching it to the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, eliminating the Institute for Health and Safety at Work, joining the Ministry of Health, eliminating the Ministry of Safety at Work makes it bad for the citizens of Croatia because asbestos will not be removed so quickly because there will be no place to think about removing asbestos in Croatia. And I don't know why the government so badly wants to eliminate all the good agencies that existed in Croatia. Clearly, there are agencies that need to be abolished that do nothing, but here we are abolishing something that is the fluid of the European Union. And I wonder, who and how will represent Croatia in Oshai, therefore, the organisation for safety at work at European Union level? I am fully aware that and I know because I was also the minister of what coordination there is between the ministries in regular work, especially in this specific section that covered these laws. And the goal of completely removing asbestos by 2032 is absolutely certain that this way will not be fulfilled. Europe says that a very important role in achieving this goal can be played by a committee of senior labour inspectors and at the national level of labour inspectors, so here I am asking a question. How will it work when the labour inspectors instead of going to a special inspectorate now to a large state inspectorate that will not be primarily and will not be the primary objective? And let's not... let's not have asbestos in Croatia. And today, at this point, perhaps even asbestos is entering across the border in Croatia? And if you intend to cover the roof of your house with salon plates, Google a little over the interview and you will find companies that will legally introduce it to you in Croatia. When asked by the Ministry of Health because the sanitary inspection should be the one to defend the entry of asbestos into Croatia, they will tell you that Croatian asbestos does not enter. However, if you look at customs documents, then you will see that asbestos is entering Croatia today. Not as much as he used to go in there sometime in 2006 to 2010 when there were over 5,000 tons of asbestos in Croatia, we were... for asbestos in the European Union because everyone from the European Union was sending asbestos to us, and then we were reselling it somewhere else. And to note what was happening in Croatia at this time, and I think the time has come to put an end to it because of those who were exposed to asbestos, because of our future generations, because of all those who will live in Croatia, but all those who may be in contact with asbestos particles and therefore get malignant disease. And it's not just the Vranjica workers, the Klobesta workers, the shipbuilding workers. These are problems related to schools, they are tied to buildings because there are many buildings and schools in Croatia that have asbestos and Croatia should work on it much, much more intensely than pushing its head into the sand. What was done in Croatia? Let's remind ourselves of the year 2007 when in the Antvinci, in that large cave of lagers, about 20, 30 tons of parlour panels were dug, and then the state of 111 million kuna spent on the recovery of it. With some of the dumps that we've rescheduled, we've built football courts where our kids are playing. So when you ask the experts, they get their hair on their heads. Because here, I've replicated to the secretary of state that waste disposal is not a permanent solution. Disposal of the salon is not a permanent solution. He needs to get rid of it another way. It should be burned with pyrolysis or in any other way removed from Croatia. To talk about what the bankruptcy manager Vranjica did immediately before bankruptcy when he imported 900 tons of asbestos into Croatia. These are all things that guide us to need much more coordination in Croatia, much more the desire of the state to get rid of asbestos and much more of the will of the state to deprive all those who have received the disease because they have been exposed to asbestos. And as far as the European Union is concerned, there is a difference. She banned 996 from importing asbestos. But you know how cooperative greed, sometimes it doesn't look at people's health, so in Switzerland their billionaire and baron from Belgium sentenced to 16 years in prison and 300 million euros in compensation they had to pay to families more than 2,000 who worked at Ethernik's company. And instead of dealing with it, we are today making a move that will long-term lead to this asbestos problem waiting for another administration that will be more willing to solve the asbestos problem in Croatia and to solve the problem of workers who have received a professional disease due to exposure to asbestos Thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108291	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108292	Dear fellow Mrsic, I am sure that here we are facing the results of our irresponsibility and laziness and indecisiveness to solve any problem I agree with you not that we would need a Croatian health and safety service in the work for the elimination of asbestos from the lives of Croatian citizens but we would need a specialist team that would generally solve the problems of asbestos from taking off roofs to storage, destroying asbestos that it disappears from the lives of Croatian citizens. Because as long as it exists on the roofs as long as we suspect it is imported through Croatia that someone still secretly installs it into a product, the situation is very dangerous and harmful to Croatian citizens. I think this problem deserves much more attention than we give this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108293	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108294	That absolutely Croatia should have not only a team but at government level should be willing to deal with it. I think there should be a single asbestos law in the House where they can fully legislatively address the asbestos problem. But what the government is now doing is bringing all these agencies together is going to cause even bigger problems. Just as I was preparing for this debate, an article came into my hand asking my friend, Professor Franjo Plassic, a top toxicologist, who was founded by the Croatian Toxicology Institute. Which is also abolished and attached to the Ministry, I guess. Who said that here is how a toxic gas called phosphin, which is banned in Europe and everywhere that kills everyone alive, could be imported into Croatia because the border simply didn't have a sanitary inspection, and neither did the Institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108295	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Mrssic listens to you and I can hardly believe it. Like you didn't listen to Mr. Jovanovic. In 2014, I was then the chairman of the Environment Committee, together with the Health Committee, prescribed several conclusions, which is how the Government, then the Government, whose minister you were in charge of. This was in March 2014. There at that meeting was your assistant present and she said that you were doing a united law that you just mentioned, that you should be made by the government. You are then, your assistant said that you are working on a united law that will, by law, solve all open issues that bother people who are fine workers who are directly or indirectly exposed to the influence of asbestos. And you're here now telling us about what the government should do. This law won't get rid of it. The government will make a law defining the remaining unsettled rights of all workers who are damaged and exposed directly or indirectly to asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108297	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108298	This is called a love ball. Mr. Bačiću The law on asbestos was made in the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Your Minister Sikic didn't do anything. The law is there he was written and should have let him in the procedure. Nor did Minister Pavic do anything about it. It is therefore based on this conclusion in 2014. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System has established a unique law on asbestos together with the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Why is it that Minister Šikic and Minister Pavić have not so far asked your administration. But it's been four or five years since then, and I'm afraid you're calling the wrong person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108299	The next replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108300	Thank you very much. So here, technical changes have triggered quite a lively debate which will hopefully be useful because asbestos does not know party membership. Like I said from the '90s to the 2015. 1517 people suffered from a professional asbestos disease and from 2010 to 2015. 441 people died. What worries is that the number of people affected by 100,000 is growing, was 1.4 in 2011, so in 2013, I have no later data. It would be good to know them so that I think it is important that, on the basis of this debate today, the sooner we solve these problems that remain and the interesting thing is that in 2017, the number of people suffering from professional illnesses was the largest in Dubrovnik-Neretva County where the least asbestos was taken care of in these years while it was still co-financed. So it's also an interesting coincidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108301	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108302	To think that this is and is glad that we have launched today a discussion on asbestos because it is clear that the ruling Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, which was one of the headquarters institutions that was concerned about the protection of workers' health at work, will thus lower the health protection of Croatian workers. And that's what I don't understand, ever since Minister Dalic presented the national reform plan where she ran into some of her reasons for the Labour Protection Act and everything else, not looking at other problems that had to be solved in the economy. And I'm afraid by this today's act, by abolishing the Institute and putting this part under the carpet and that Croatia will not be 2032nd country without asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108303	The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djuic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108304	Thank you very much. When we talk about asbestos, Mrsic should mention one more thing, which is that the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund was funded by June 2016 or co-financed waste management containing asbestos. And in June 2016, so the coming of this government has temporarily suspended this measure, it says. So it was again written in 2017 that it was temporarily suspended and it was temporarily rewritten in 2017 that it was suspended, and it is temporarily going on until today, so until 2016 it is the Fund, but let's say it in a way that people understand. Citizens were free to deposit asbestos waste, after 2016 by decision of this government, they can't do it anymore, but if they want to deposit asbestos waste, they have to pay for it, and now we have that people put that asbestos out of control and into the environment and wherever they come and that's another additional threat of health for which they are directly guilty are the decisions of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108305	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108306	Yes it is true, and it is at European level it is recommended to take care of asbestos waste by going through energy efficiency and through the Energy Efficiency Fund and that since 2016. 37 thousand roofs that were covered by the salon were changed and for that the Fund paid for 144 million kuna and then they said that they no longer have money and that simply let anyone do it who wants and how they will and if a man wants to change the roof on his own initiative then it must pay for himself and the delay no longer pays, so we find asbestos both on the beaches and on the caves, especially in Dalmatia because it was large there, there is a large number of roofs covered by the salon. And that's something that the HDZ government and one and the other made for Croatian citizens, and it's probably time for things to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108307	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108308	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, fellow Members and colleagues, here, I would like to remind you that here, in the former meeting, they have, in fact, advocated the decentralization of the abolition of certain agencies, in fact certain restrictions, i.e. rationalisation through the bodies of the state administration, and today when the national reform programme for 2018 is talking about the abolition of certain agencies where there are certain parallelisms in the state, then today we are actually surprised and we are attacking why we are passing this law, or these two laws, in a united debate under the urgent procedure, and in fact you have explained these reasons in your own introduction because of possible legal gaps that could arise, so this is about the technical changes of both laws. So now the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work is abolished and what is attached to the Croatian Institute for Public Health. I myself participated in certain meetings and discussions about asbestos 15 years ago, especially as it was the strongest in the Split-Dalmatia County, so the Salonite in Vranjica, Ploved in Ploča, and I also heard sad stories about which some of the representatives here also told the fact that I am asbestos, i.e. asbestos works by the health of people in those parts. By the 1990s, or 95 years ago, there was almost no legal establishment or public institutions that had no asbestos in them, from houses, schools, plumbing, and the use of asbestos itself was also in the auto-industry, in the textile industry in shipbuilding, in bookstores, therefore, it was used as the most widely used material in construction. I'm saying, perhaps most of all in Dalmatia, there's almost no house or facility that doesn't have asbestos, or salon boards. What actually happened and what happened to the creation of a modern Croatian state and seeing this problem, the Croatian state has actually seriously approached this problem, taking into account all the facts, so that I do not enter into the details that have occurred, I will mention that through the Environment Protection Agency, through the Environmental Protection Fund in a short time by changing more than 40,000 roofs and facades. It's not a small number, it can certainly be higher, so they need large funds, so it's just the removal and the waste from asbestos itself, which is what counterpart Miranda Mršić was talking about, of course it takes time. I suppose and I'm sure that in the region of Dalmatia, especially in large cities, there are still water pipes of asbestos, so to change that, it requires one large and huge resource. The fact is also that the Croatian state and the special law on pensions have actually categorized this group of people by pensions, by special regulations, so people affected by asbestos or by asbestos are covered by this special law. What we heard today about the Committee, we do not need to close our eyes in front of the team and counterpart Bacic said that they happened because of certain things related to the members of the Committee, I think that part can be regulated as quickly as possible. So it's been said today that there's been a little bit of work on it, and I dare say it's been done a lot. Is that enough for people who, especially those who have a history of asbestos or cancer, mesothelium, the fact is that even those who watch this may not agree and they would like these things to accelerate, that these procedures are accelerated, especially regarding the Committee. The resolution of asbestos will be so long as I believe it, it does not come down to the least possible measure, it will certainly not stop its production in countries that are surrounded by the Republic of Croatia, that I am not talking about some other countries that produced asbestos. In addition to the analyses that came from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Croatian Institute of Public Health itself says and acknowledges that it was in the period from 2010 to 2015 about 336 people. So nobody's keeping any information secret because they actually want to sensitize the public, and through the Croatian Parliament they actually want to help these people through certain laws I would say to them in difficult times. What I still want to emphasize, which is that, I said in one replica, that there is actually a skeptic that those things that the Croatian Institute will not be able to take over from the Croatian Institute of Public Health. And the secretary of state, you actually said in your introduction that employees and people who worked at the Croatian Institute will not lose that job, but in the new circumstances they will now actually take over this job or continue to work on this asbestos-related problem, or on asbestos. I am still obliged to say that, as far as the law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos is concerned, that there has been a lot of work and I think that a large part of the people covered by asbestos has been covered by that law and that through the commission there has been a number of damages. Perhaps for the very end of the waste or through environmental protection, the Environmental Protection Fund is also the fact that what Mr. Djujic said I would agree with it, we also warned the board that we should actually reconsider that this waste can be deposited at special landfills without compensation and all in order to protect and the environment, as well as people related to asbestos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108309	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108310	Thank you very much. The replica of Mr Babic's previous stance that the former state did not prohibit the use of asbestos should not go so far back into the past and think everything was bad in the past. In 1974, the former state banned the use of asbestos in the former country, but unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia in 1990 when it took over the legal gain did not take over that ban on the use of asbestos in Croatia and until 2006 asbestos was legally used in Croatia and was importing mainly from Russia in boxes where there was one big dead head and it wrote poison. What should be seen in the future is how in Croatia to solve the problem, especially in Dalmatia where many roofs are covered by a salon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108311	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108312	Dear colleague Mrsic, I have listened carefully to your debate about this united debate and these two laws. Of course, you just said that this is not just about technical changes, it's about changes, it's about talking about this problem, that it needs to be updated. I just wanted to say that by the 1990s or until 95, when asbestos was used in a broad application especially in construction, that there was less talk about it. It was not only the case of Croatia, but other countries in our environment. The creation of a modern Croatian state seemed to be the maximum then in these circumstances in fact to protect the very people exposed to asbestos on the one hand, on the other hand to prohibit the use of asbestos. You said in your debate that even today you can get to those people who get asbestos. If that is the case, but how much law in the Republic of Croatia has banned and respecting the European Union directives in the European Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108313	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108314	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Babić, you mentioned that there are a number of asbestos products. And at this point he was installed either in the waterway, whether in the household, or in the residential buildings, buildings. And what you are at the end of your debate, the special representatives of the ministry need to know, the problem is to remove these. It's not a problem, asbestos isn't dangerous while he's in office now whether it's the plates, whether it's the plumbing. But the moment we try to remove it, when it comes to its physical tearing, the tearing, when it comes into the air, it's dangerous. Both the ministry and the fund must do everything to return that provision to enable it, even if it encourages proper care of this material, and workers who work with this asbestos must be referred must know and of course need to be compensated, because many of them were not even aware of the danger to their health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108315	Thank you very much. We will now hear the reply to the replica of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108316	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Žagar, including us as parliamentary representatives, are actually involved in the creation of public change, and during the 20 years in many counties in the Republic of Croatia, on the incentive of units of local self-government, regional self-government, the ministry itself, the Environment Fund itself, the agency itself has done a lot to take care of asbestos and waste. Also in changing roofs and facades of houses, I said that more than 40,000 have been changed. So what you don't need to do is maybe tell me to panic now because when you look at the studies then you'll see that just breathing asbestos isn't healthy, it's not desirable. counterpart Jovanovic said that where there were no asbestos, for example in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the results showed that there are now the most professional diseases But it's up to us to work on that education. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108317	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108318	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Babic, it's good that you mentioned, I think you were the only one in this debate to mention, and that's the law and special regulations and the right to retire. Since you come de facto from that system, is it true, I haven't been able to ask the secretary of state, that according to the current regulations, especially, the special regulations of the right to retirement can only get means de facto workers who come from the Salonite, no one around who's tied to asbestos, and we know that it's a much wider circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108319	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108320	So here's what you and your colleague Bacic have said is something that I should have said now, if it hadn't been for the attention of the workers who worked with asbestos, if it hadn't been for the public, if it hadn't been for the creation of a social climate, it wouldn't have actually been for them to receive a pension under special conditions. So when we talked about the pension insurance law itself, then we listed those 17 categories of pensions under special conditions, one of them is related to workers, workers who had contact with asbestos. Therefore, they are related to the Law on Special Pensions, according to the Law on Pension Insurance of the Republic of Croatia and under these special regulations receive pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108321	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108322	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Before us today, a united debate is about amendments to the law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos and the amendments to the law itself, i.e. amending and supplementing the laws on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. Both laws have short and small changes related to purely technical nature, but as the debate has gone on, we have seen that this issue has a much wider impact on the entire Republic of Croatia, on all parts, but here I will particularly look back on the territory of Dalmatia, Split-Dalmatia County, here and in particular Salonita and Vranjica, which may be the hardest hit by this problem and the problem of generally asbestos as toxic material. These laws address issues and workers who have been professionally in contact with asbestos itself, their compensation requirements, procedures and bodies responsible for resolving these requirements, while other legislation prescribes a way of monitoring the health status of workers exposed to asbestos and the main news, related to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to conclude the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds and companies from August 2018 and the basis of the National Reform Programme of 2018, established that the Croatian Institute for Public Health is taking over the tasks of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work. It is a newspaper that is now in line with these two amendments to the law, how much good it will bring, we will see, I believe that when it is under one roof institution all related to the compensation of workers related to asbestos and to the handling of asbestos, I think that in the next period we will definitely get some quality results. For a long time, we've been doing a lot of talking about the Committee for the Resolution of the damage claims in Articles 2 and 3 of this Act, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself has established, we've seen in the last year and a half, the Committee has been in some of the problems, because it consists of members from different ministries, the Commission has come into contact with some colleagues and from the Associations who have been working with these Committees and former Salonite workers and generally affected by asbestos, the Commission for the sake of individual members who went into retirement or changed their working status, but for a year there is no quorum for their actions, so that the first and main appeal not only to the Ministry of Health but to the Ministry of Labour and others involved in the work of the Commission is that they will not only form themselves, but only to fill themselves with additional members and to go into solving the remaining workers. It's a major kind of grudge for the organizations themselves who are related to workers who have suffered from asbestos and after related diseases, which turns into lung cancer itself, mesatellion and many other complications, which, unfortunately, are the same and dying. We have to go back a little bit in history, we mentioned here in 2007 when the asbestos issue began to be resolved and only removed in the area and Vranjica in Kava, but we also have to go back to history when some former ministries started working on a working group that should have actually solved a package of laws that would solve the problems of all former workers and Salonits and other factories, but we have to solve the issues of asbestos, which I think, and at the time of my fellow Mrsic, they formed, not much then with that ministry progressed, then they continued to work and other ministries, and here by the day of today they had already offered a solution and proposals of their laws, and these are the new draft laws on the compensation of workers of professional asbestos, the law on the compensation of the workers of the company Salonit d.d. in bankruptcy and the Law on conditions for the acquisition of the right to retirement of workers is professionally exposed to asbestos. Unfortunately, to this day, this package of laws has not been fully implemented, and we have not solved the entire problem of asbestos and workers who have the right and to compensation, tomorrow and pensions and all that belongs to them. Unfortunately, as much as the commission itself does not work out, and how many cases have not been resolved, the health situation is rapidly changing and changing in people who have asbestos disease so that a lot of people have died in the meantime. Here we have heard that in 2018 in the European Union it should have been statisticalally, and we will see this at the end of the year where the most consequences of asbestos itself occur, i.e. where the consequences could be the highest number of deaths. But we also have to open this issue and it is good that there is a certain consensus in this part of the debate between all parties here and everyone who participated in the debate, and that is that asbestos is everywhere around us. We see especially in settlements like Jarun that are built of asbestos plates. Not to mention the area of my Split and Solin and the entire Split-Dalmatia County. Here I am, in particular, living my whole life on the edge of Split, under quotes in the eastern Kotars of Ravna Niva, which up until a few years ago were the de facto storage space for asbestos pipes that stood on the wind, covering several neighborhoods in the town of Split, in the very edge of the town of Split, not to mention the edge of the town of Solin, and Vranjic himself, what has gone through and what is going on today about the remains of the asbestos material itself. It is shocking that today certain pipes in Dalmatia contain asbestos material. Not to mention roofs, facades and anything used as insulators, and we know that asbestos has been a quality and highly recommended electrical insulator for many years. So in the current buildings that were built in the '50s and '60s, in the '70s, you have more of those asbestos plate fuses that protects you from electricity. We must also note that we are the state of Dalmatia in particular which the Republic of Croatia which we have over, between 2500 and 3000 newly ill with lung cancer. We cannot, of course, blame everything on asbestos, but one part in Dalmatia definitely and with smoking and other risks we must take a factor that has contributed a lot to this asbestos because it is strange that we are at the top of the European Union exactly in such diseases as lung cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer, which is when we attach all these factors, when we attach how much more asbestos material is in our areas we can definitely ask ourselves, and how much of the disease is just about it. It's a good thing there's a certain consensus because so far we're solving and we haven't worked out what professional asbestos is said to be. So there's even though that short bill got rid of former salon workers, I'm thinking somewhere around 42 salon workers who for certain reasons haven't been compensated and 100 workers in the boards themselves. But we need to open up the topic of both communal and domicillal asbestos, and these are people who lived in areas where asbestos factories, which lived in neighborhoods, in places around cities that were only subject to wind, the air to get those particles to them, so it's definitely a topic that we should have opened further in 2019. And normally, the postponement of asbestos itself to end this financing to the physical individuals of the removal of asbestos and we have potentially opened up the possible growth of new wild dumps. So in 2019, we definitely need a year to start solving all these regulations. Not to mention the European Union, funds, energy efficiency where we can solve the big problem of our asbestos-coated infrastructure. But I appeal, here is the Ministry of Health, but there should definitely be a few other ministries sitting on the committee to work hard to form a working group again and thank you for all the data and the Association... asbestos, colleagues Mandic from Vranjica Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108323	We have one replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108324	Dear Mr. of the Croatian Parliament, just so it doesn't have to be inconceivable about this commission. I was just checking something out right now. So, due to certain objective circumstances, the commission is not working. However, as far as citizens themselves are concerned, so all their rights and obligations stemming from this are tied to the Commission's demands. So, all rights. They will not lose those rights and I believe that it should now be reiterated that there is no misunderstanding whether or not they will lose them because the commission is temporarily not working or being suspended for objective reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108325	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108326	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with your colleague. The commission's not a problem. Anyone who filed a damage claim has a right. He'll be compensated. But the only problem is that here we see by statistics in 2018 when asbestos is in certain types of other diseases not to mention lung cancer it goes quickly and people die rapidly. It is therefore important that the Continuity Commission works, that there is no retreat and that there are no breaks, but that this is settled in a certain continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108327	Thank you very much. The last individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, rare occasions are in these two years of my parliamentary mandate to discuss health laws at a decent time. Today we heard a lot about asbestos from different areas, so it was a matter of environmental protection and a matter of labour rights. But I think it's still worth talking more from some kind of health carcinoma. So there are two laws. One concerns the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos, and the other concerns the issue of compulsory health supervision of workers who are professionally exposed to asbestos. If we take into account the fact that according to the data we received from the Croatian Institute of Public Health, 70 to 80 people die annually due to asbestos exposure, then certainly this topic deserves more attention than the number of people who have been suffering from an increase since 2007 we have heard that the development of the disease is also long-term and sometimes it takes 10 to 20 years for the disease to develop. Signs of asbestos-related cancer even after 40 years so that this topic in the Republic of Croatia will be discussed for a long time despite the fact that the use of asbestos in the Republic of Croatia has been prohibited since 2006. Here I would refer to the directives of the Council of the European Union, so the first directive was 1983 and it is related to the protection of workers from the risks associated with exposure to asbestos. There have been several amendments to the 1983 directive and then a codified version of the 2009 directive relating to that area was voted upon and implemented in the Law on compulsory health supervision of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. So we had an incidence in 2011. 1.4 per 100,000 population in the Republic of Croatia is now 2 per 100 thousand and, therefore, except for the permanent lung damage mentioned before, so asbestos and mesothelioma, which, unfortunately, are the most common deaths in recent medical studies of lung cancer and cancer of digestive organs associated with asbestos exposure. Therefore, there are also practical recommendations for clinical evaluation of workers and what is stated, and what enables professional bodies to make recommendations, therefore, in order to detect early asbestos-related diseases, given the latest medical knowledge, to establish practical recommendations regarding clinical surveillance of exposed workers, and then also in addition to the 2009 Council Directive of the European Union specifically specificises what is in the medical care of work, and if there are certain predictors that need to be done with further tests of pulmological and cytological in order to detect disease early and allow better quality of life for persons who have been professionally exposed to asbestos. So I have already mentioned that the number of people reported to be on the rise since 2007 and since I come from the Neretva valley in my vicinity I had people who had asbestos, still except asbestos, the yield of Plobesta Ploče and Salonita in Vranjica there were also problems in the shipyards above all in Brodosplit and Uljanik where asbestos was used for sealing pipes or boilers, so there is another special sensibilization for this topic. I think in the end, therefore, with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the national reform plan and the accession of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work to the Croatian Institute for Public Health, which is run by the Professional Diseases Register, I think that the quality of work related to this problem will not be reduced at any time, as is the State Secretary Dr. Plazonić pointed out because these experts who worked at the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work will continue to work only in an institution called the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108329	We have a replica of the respected representative Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108330	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State, I would like to ask you, therefore the use of products and asbestos has been prohibited in Croatia since 2006. So who should be sanctioned afterwards, do those companies and economic operators that use asbestos or someone else after 2006?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108331	The answer of the respected representative, Cjelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108332	The 1999 Directive prohibits the use of asbestos from 1. 1. In 2005, in the European Union, we were not the European Union at that time, and this has become applicable since 2006. You have already mentioned, therefore, I would especially point out here the question of public institutions, schools, hospitals covered with parlour panels and roles of relevant bodies and the question of energy renewal and all that should be done to remove it, although we know, therefore, that asbestos is not literally harmful until it is touched. I think, as far as this issue of yours is concerned, competent inspections need to work, and when it's seen that asbestos is used for something new, then it needs to be severely sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108333	Thank you very much. Now the final something will be said on behalf of the proposing respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since this united debate has been very united and broad, I will try to be very, very brief. I'd like some disagreements and some false interpretations not to go public without explaining them to the kind of people they are. Therefore, this technical part of the amendments and the addition of this Act for the sake of the rationalisation of the Institute in our country, because of the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nothing is abolished only by the reorganisation of the service in such a way that all those perpetrators remain executioners but the management part must in some way be rationalised. So that's first and foremost. There's nothing under God's name we're not ending. So neither will these existing laws, which by new law will come into the composition of other institutions. It's first and foremost. Secondly, these are laws that talk about something that we are very aware of at the Ministry of Health, which is a matter of asbestos and asbestos as a potential predenceros. Here's enough, I would say this, the discussion that is confusing to our listeners and viewers and our people, is not a water pipe or a salon itself carcinogenic, it becomes carcinogenic in some other conditions, it's the first and the basic thing, and the other thing, it doesn't hurt every man who came in contact with asbestos from cancer, it would be very bad if that were so. So what is the medical aspect of asbestos regarding its carcinogenic effects, the reactivity of the organism, etc., these are the professional parts that I could talk to those who understand on occasion in the very medical aspect and not this legislative framework. The legislative framework here says that special attention will be paid to people who come into contact and who are professionally exposed to asbestos, precisely because it is recognised in time and started with further diagnostics in terms of preventing the development of possible malignancies in stages where it is no longer adequately intervened. In the context of this, our national plan to prevent lung cancer, where exactly risk groups will be dealt with primarily with with with these prevention programs. On the other hand, what I think is very important, and as they say, trust in asbestos, trust in asbestos as such does not exist, as far as I know, and this is written in this law, the Committee for Resolvement of Competitive Requirements. This is what the Committee for Compensation of damage claims is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it consists of, I have to read it from 9 members, it is made up of representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Health, Finance, Justice, Representative of the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, Representative of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, Representative of the Association of Workers of Professional Diseases, Caused by asbestos and two representatives of the Syndicate. Therefore, this is the Commission which will now be established and which will now, under urgent damages, take into consideration and address them as soon as possible. Here's so much for now, thank you very much, and I think there's a lot that's been clarified with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108335	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108336	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on workers' compensation, professionally exposed asbestos, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 467, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Law on the compensation of workers, professionally exposed to asbestos. Let's vote. I find that most votes, 97 for, 2 abstentions and 2 against, have passed a law amending the Law on the compensation of workers professionally exposed to asbestos.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108439	Now we will proceed with our points as we agreed this morning. We will now conduct a united discussion of the following 5 points: - Final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 500; - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on aquaculture, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 501; - Final proposal for a law amending the Law on wooded short-circuit cultures, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 502; - Final draft law on the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 503; - Final draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 504; Proposer of acts shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the Agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 204 The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Ms. Marija Vukkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108440	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed gentlemen of parliamentary representatives, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the National Reform Programme and measures 133, the rationalisation of legal persons with public authority in August 2018, adopted a conclusion that accepted the proposal to reduce the number of agencies, Institute, Foundation, Institute, Funds, companies and other legal entities with public authority. In the section relating to the Ministry of Agriculture, it is necessary to amend, i.e. to adopt new legal regulations, and this Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes 5 legislative proposals relating to implementation and rationalisation within the scope of the Ministry of Agriculture. The law on the termination of the Act on the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service provides for the termination of the work of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service and for its employees, jobs, total assets, financial obligations, equipment, means of work, writing and other documentation to be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. By taking over these jobs at the Ministry of Agriculture, certain direct savings are provided in the State budget, while the Ministry of Agriculture assumes all 306 employees of the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service. The Law amending the Law on aquaculture is in line with the Law on the Elimination of Croatian Agriculture, on the termination of the validity of the Croatian Agricultural-Forest Advisory Service since the Aquaculture Act is prescribed that the public advisory activity and vocational training activities to carry out the activities of aquaculture as public authority are carried out by the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service. This amendment provides for such transactions to be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. The Law amending the Law on Wooden Cultures of Short Seas amends the part relating to professional supervision of the production of biomass from wooded short-circuit cultures carried out so far by the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service, which, in accordance with the Government's conclusion, plans to abolish and these professional surveillance activities will be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture. By passing the Law on the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food; the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village is changing its name, becoming the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, which is fully attached to the Croatian Food Agency and part of the Croatian Agricultural Agency. That Law stipulates that the remaining part of the Croatian Agricultural Agency, i.e. 86 employees, will be taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture and that the suspension will ensure certain direct savings in the State budget relating primarily to the salaries of the Director, the Deputy Director, the corresponding material costs and changes in public status in civil servants. Finally, the Law amending the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties covers provisions relating to the change of the name of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village to the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food which performs, which assumes jurisdiction in the process of protecting the variety of agricultural plants, the process of obtaining processing rights and the protection of holders of the processing law. The total direct savings provided for by this law according to the fiscal impact assessment shall be EUR 1,270 000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108441	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Honored representative Josip Križanić first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108442	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State since this merger the Agency is abolishing the advisory service there is a concern in public that the terrain will no longer be covered in the way it is so far. And we know that the work of the advisory service is crucial for young farmers, especially the CAP. Furthermore, given that this service was in charge of withdrawing funds from the European Union, I am interested in how this will be regulated in the future and whether these jobs will be a new burden on the budget in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108443	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108444	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, as far as the advisory service network is concerned, it will remain on the ground as it has been with 129 offices, 129 offices will remain and we believe that advisers will concentrate on sectoral aid to agricultural economies exactly the way they should, and that horizontal jobs will be properly and rationally carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. As regards the use of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the Croatian Agricultural and Forest Advisory Service is indeed an authorised user, and this operation is covered by measure 1 and 2. The rural development programme, it will continue to be used. There will be no burden on the State budget, amendments to the Rural Development Programme are under way to enable the use of these funds to assist all farmers and to professional training by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Special Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108445	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Mr Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108446	I'd like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Well, I would refer briefly to this part of the law on the Croatian Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Service. Namely, the agricultural advisory services themselves are an important factor in achieving all those strategic goals and in agriculture, forestry and fisheries in all the European Union countries, and we know that agricultural stations themselves have practice or tradition since the time after World War II, as well as forest advisory services from the 2000s and when we were in this high home and I think it was in September 2017 that we discussed the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service, we said and stressed that better governance and more efficiency in the use of financial resources is the ultimate goal of this system. I believe that if we are going to go in this direction and to the benefit of forest owners, farmers and fishermen, you have also mentioned direct savings with the detention of all employees, I wonder if we can expect that we will direct those direct savings to the power to direct them to end users, forest owners, farmers and fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108447	Thank you, sir. The answer to a respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108448	All that the Ministry of Agriculture is doing is aimed at achieving benefits for Croatian farmers, Croatian fishermen and Croatian forest owners. As for this direct savings projected so far, which amounts to a million and 270 thousand kuna, we believe that in the end the savings will be larger, it is about direct savings that we can now realistically assess based on the fiscal impact assessment process. We believe that the savings will be greater, and with the state aid itself, the support of small values and changes in the rural development programme to all what seems to be a direct payment, we seek a much greater amount of savings than the planned savings are directed further in favour of small farmers, larger farmers, fishermen and forest owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108449	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteur want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108450	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try briefly in the debate to say what we consider to be important and related to the adoption of this Law and in this direction whether we should support this legislative proposal or not. So, first of all, when we talk about the structure of a system, and the Ministry is certainly one huge system, so it's not illogical that it was also the establishment of an Agency or a branch that was precisely in the discharge of such a large system or better division of jurisdiction or work, efficiency of work. I guess that's what was meant when it was started, when agencies were set up. True, the agency was according to what we can see, vertically organized, although it had its own territorial branches, it was, however, under one roof agency that was again based in Zagreb. And now if we ask what will happen if, instead of the Agency, we put those same people under the roof in Zagreb, under the Ministry, nothing important will happen, if this is true, the secretary of state, when you say, mention the amount of millions and 270 thousand kunas, it is to greet, it is a significant amount. He can ultimately focus on equipping these people, their spaces, perhaps their material status, in order to do their job better and then ultimately be of greater service to end users, i.e. farmers, who would then have better advice, could turn to them for help. However, if this change is only about changing the board on the building, and things continue to take place as they happened, and we just boast that we have a national reform plan so we respect it, then it's not a good solution. So, I'm glad you brought this amount, mostly you said it was related, will be less agency director, which is, in fact, the directors and everything that goes with the leading places, but what you need to take care of in the future, because now it's going to be under the Ministry, it's this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, to allow in every territory the necessary number, in every county, needs a number of people to be more disposed to those people who need it on the ground. That's, that should be the meaning and key of this law. I've just got one more comment, and here you've actually decided on the Agency for the Agricultural Advisory Forest Service, how do you choose it? Is there a plan or is it now, like that, let's go where it is, at least there will be resistance, here, you can do it later in some replica or something to answer that question. We generally support any measure that leads to discharge or reduction of expenditure that is not necessarily necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108451	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives, the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Josip Križanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108452	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As few of us as there are, I warmly welcome you. This set of laws therefore implements the government's decision of 8 months 18 to reduce agencies and institutions, as well as other institutions with public authority. So the goal is to rationalize the number of people. But also the cost reduction, the secretary of state listed the costs, known as the ones already calculated a million and a half kuna, you said it was significant money, we're sure and we hope it'll be much more. Each of these public legal entities will have no more meaning for their public procurement and financing, but will be united procurement and other things will be agreed there. Financial budget discharge will only be seen in the coming time, which such discharge will bring, but we are sure now that we will not have in these institutions directors, drivers, secretaries, etc. All those of us who have alluded to an effective functional and smaller public administration so far, we will now come to our own. Of course, let's hope this is the first step and the beginning of a serious reduction in the total number of public service employees, not just the transition of public servants to civil servants. I want to make it clear that public perception is like that, and information comes from individual agencies that 30 percent of people are too many in those agencies and that if 30 percent of people move away to be good again. That is why I welcome every reduction, and this reduction of legal persons with public powers, because it will certainly result in a lower spending of funds from the state budget. However, of all the laws that we are going to handle today, it is nevertheless necessary to say that the most important changes to the event in the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which will continue to operate as a Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency based in Osijek, while the Croatian Food Agency and the Croatian Agricultural Agency will cease to act as independent institutions. Their employees are about to move to the Ministry of Agriculture, and part of the Agency for Agriculture and Food. That is why we have also supported the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, which is aimed at more efficient reorganisation of public institutions due to the administrative procedures of the new construction unit based in the Agency for Agriculture and Food. Therefore, the proposal for a law did not state the establishment units of the Agency their headquarters. We have asked that they be cited, so Article 4 will now state that the establishment units of the Agency are the Office of Directors based in Osijek, the Office of Plant Protection, the Centre for the Support of Business Process based in Osijek, the Centre for Seeding and Dispersion with headquarters in Osijek, the Centre for the Protection of Plants based in Zagreb, the Centre for the Ground with headquarters in Osijek, the Centre for Food Safety with headquarters in Osijek, the Center for the Control of the Quality of the cattle products based in Križevci, the Centre for Winery, Wine and Oil Management with its headquarters in Zagreb, and the Centre for Fruit and Agriculture with its headquarters in Zagreb. We also support the amendment initiative to promote, among other things, Croatian agricultural and food products and to buy and sell those products for promotion purposes that cannot be done to obtain profits as well as to expand the scope of the Agency's affairs. The wider scope of the Agency's operations is proposed, in view of the full coverage of the operations carried out in the responsibilities of the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food and the provision of assistance in the establishment and operation of agricultural producers and producer organisations, to have a positive impact on the establishment and operation of the same organisations, and by including the promotion of Croatian agricultural and food products, the Agency will further encourage the growth and development of agricultural production while limiting the performance of these businesses in order to obtain profits, thereby avoiding an impact on competition. This adds new tasks to the Agency to assist in the establishment of domestic animal breeders organisations, livestock exhibitions organisations, other jobs contributing to the development of livestock production, participation in the processing of breeding and selection data, participation in the development and implementation of the programme for the conservation of original and protected breeds, assistance in the organisation of the transport of farmed throats, the provision of assistance in the establishment and development of domestic animal breeders organisations, participation in the development of livestock production development programmes. It is expected that such subordination and direct verticals will result in greater efficiency and functionality and, finally, in the satisfaction of the end-users of our agricultural producers. In particular, I am referring to the transition of the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service to the Ministry of Agriculture from its 300-year-old staff who will remain in their field facilities, but have a vertical command from the minister directly. So, not that we expect the counselors, which is why I asked Mrs. Secretary of State, not that we expect counselors to work as well as they have done so far, but they will work even better because exactly the agronomist in villages is missing, and there has never been less agronomics than now. In the end, this results all with much more incentives in agriculture and less self-sufficiency of basic agricultural products. Thank you very much. The HDZ Club will support all these five laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108453	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall in the name of which Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. So then the next club will be the SDP Representatives' Club on behalf of which a respected representative, Allen Prelec, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108454	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected secretary of state with associates. Well, the SDP certainly is not against the rationalisation and abolition of the agency, but, in fact, we are for it and we believe that rationalisation should be done both in agriculture and in these segments of Croatian society in order to be better and more efficient. However, as his colleague said, if rationalization is just a change of tables, then we are not satisfied with this rationalization. If there's going to be a rationalization only that 3,000 people who work in the Ministry's system and all other services in agriculture and around agriculture, then I don't think we've done the same thing for agriculture. The fact that we can all agree that the situation in agriculture is very difficult. And if we're going to fix this difficult situation by abolishing agencies and some of the accompanying services, I hope we will. I'll clap anyway when I see that in a year and two there's a situation in agriculture much better than today. Today we have in the system of the Ministry of Agriculture and all the accompanying services 3,000 employees. We have 129 advisory services. I wonder, will this change make us available to a farmer? I hope so. The fact that everything starts with people and they can agree that today we have a pre-greeting administration that no longer deals with the transfer of knowledge and technology to peasants, but with the control of money that has given them. Too many agronomists spend too much time at the table and computer, and too few in their boots on the peasant economy, the administration has made life very difficult for peasants and imposed rules that make it difficult for them to produce and live. That's what farmers themselves say. I believe the Ministry of Agriculture has its own strategy and knows what it's doing, but I have to warn several times about some of the things I see and that bother me. This year, we passed the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service in the first month, and now here is the 11th month, we end it. So, what I keep mentioning in the SDP is we need to have a strategy and we are guilty among other 4 years when we led this Croatian state that we did not bring a strategy, I admit, but mistakes are being made. In all the years we've had agriculture ministers, I'd say we haven't done anything significant. Even in the strategy, we didn't exactly move about agriculture. We put 36 or 40 billion kuna in agriculture, and what we have today from agriculture, agriculture is 27% weaker than it was 10 years ago. While agriculture is growing in the same period in the EU by not a large percentage but 7%. What's causing it? I would have to say here that we don't have a strategy first of all that's the most important document that would be for agriculture and for all farmers, strategy and analysis of the situation. What is the situation in Croatian agriculture today? The first question would be such a general question, although it has nothing to do with this, this topic of why the Croatian apple or Croatian strawberry is more expensive in retail chains than import apples and import strawberries, is the basic problem of Croatian agriculture. Why in retail chains we have pork of 22 kuna from imports, while our pork Croatian live vagina is more than 22 kuna, that is the main problem of Croatian agriculture. Are we going to do an analysis, which is why, and then when we see the analysis and find out why, let's see what we do to help every Croatian farmer. That when he produces, he knows he'll sell at some price and it'll be satisfactory for him. Then our young won't leave the village, then our agriculture won't fall in these 10 years with 27% despite the 36 billion money invested in agriculture. That's something we're surprised at every time from the new, even though colleagues who follow a little more perhaps agriculture out there say that when they have strawberry season, the Austrians then ban the import of strawberries from the EU, when they have an apple season of the same ban on imports. This is how we will protect domestic production and domestic farmers, and whether this rationalisation of agencies and the change of tables will bring good to Croatian agriculture, I don't know, I hope, I will applaud every minister, I will applaud every law I see that will bring good to Croatian agriculture, but the fact that these 28 years to Croatian farmers is only worse. To eat foreign food, less quality, that's a fact and that's what we have to worry about. We are here to pass good laws, to support the law that we think will bring better Croatia, in this case better agriculture, and I will in any case be in favour of this law, I will not be against it for sure, I will not be against it and we in the SDP will certainly not be against it, but here is whether this law will bring something good by changing tables or by changing this arrival to the work of people from the agency that will come to the ministry. And it doesn't matter, and that's what we said on the board whether some advisory service will be in Osijek or in the Križevci, it doesn't matter if it brings good to farmers, if these farmers have advice of gold, whether it's in Osijek or in the Križevci, or whether it's in the Cross today in Gospić or some part where agriculture is almost, almost this one doesn't exist. When I was talking about the situation in agriculture, I would really like to see one real analysis, which is why agricultural products from Europe come to Croatian shelves and are cheaper. Whether because farmers in Europe are more capable, have a better country, better seeds or simply have higher subsidies from the state. That's what, here's a chance for you to respect this secretary of state, to answer this question, perhaps. What makes it so, why do we have cheaper import products on the shelves? I think our farmers are educated enough, good enough, working enough to have a quality country, we certainly don't have a worse climate than Austria and Germany, and why is that happening? These are the basic things that I resent our, our, our leadership that runs our agriculture. So a strategy, an analysis of the situation as far as I know that such a single strategy is even sought out European money for the development of the strategy, should be made an analysis of the situation, and then we will all be able to pass the right laws and support the laws that will bring good to the Croatian farmer, every Croatian citizen who comes into the shopping centre or retail chains and buys a good, good Croatian product at a good price. Now, is this going to happen with this change in the way these 3,000 employees work, I don't know, we'll see, I hope that they will all be, uh, available to the Croatian farmer and that Croatian agriculture will be better in the future. The SDP will not be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108455	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the Voice and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108456	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, the distinguished secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have a set of laws ahead of us, and in fact it is thematically based on the termination of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service. So in this debate on behalf of the club, I would point out, in fact, maybe two things. One thing is rationalization, and another thing is the work being done. So when you start rationalizing and you say something is going to be done in that sense, you can't do it in principle, it is for that principle. But there's always the one coming, but how it's done. So somehow you have to know what is more or less important, which will have a slightly less or more significant consequence of managing a sector. I have a feeling that when you decided to abolish certain agencies and seduce you to take a list of the Agency and the Bureau and that it was crossed that regardless of what the consequences of all this went on. This service is particularly interesting. In the past year, we had the Law on Agricultural Forest Advisory Service, which was in two readings. In two readings, we discussed this Law. What was historical about this Law? Historically, the advisory service changed its name to a agricultural forest. Why do you do that? It's done for reasons that not only do you change tables, memos and everything else, you can also replace some people, you can also make some new systematicizations, so it's much simpler for you if some people don't want to do it in some places. And we pointed out then, as much as it relates to the management of the area and fishing, so we said that freshwater or freshwater fishing, so why isn't that in the name of it, so why don't we have it. That's enough, there was a debate on two occasions, and then I said something now I'm gonna do it again. When you do something like that, I'm sure you're the expense of the state budget. You have to have new tables, you have to have new memos, you have to bring new systemizations, then new solutions, and then you have to have a new solution for your vacation. I was in my work sitting in the same room in the same ministry. I was doing about the same job, and then in a work book that was canceled in the meantime, in the four years I had six changes, in my work book I had six presses and six changes, and basically nothing changed. And now it wouldn't, on February 15th, this law came into force, and now that we're here at the end of the year and now we say at the end of the year, we don't need that service anymore. So, everything we've been saying, we've been saying, so we can talk, because now we've concluded, now it's no longer a problem, it doesn't have to be a special service, now we're going to integrate it into the Ministry. So what we didn't do in 2017, which in 2017, we didn't say, we don't need it, will be within the Ministry, will be one service within the Ministry, which we harassed, which we went with twice reading the Law in HS, which we were now doing to change our minds. I asked the secretary of state on the board and she answered me, I have to admit, I understand her answer, that was the decision and we respect the decision, so that's the thing about horses where your boss tells you and doesn't think too much. Among other things, 306 employees, I wrote it down, so I think I speak well, who are now working, who are not civil servants, at this point will become civil servants, so we, on the one hand, will rationalize something, on the other hand, we will increase the number of civil servants. So he doesn't know the left hand what the right hand does. Well, I guess at the beginning this government decided to deco rationalize, so I guess at the beginning, we're going to cancel certain institutions and agencies, so I guess at the beginning of her term she had an idea and she could say that, look, I can't do it right away in the first or second year of office, but I'm going to do it. So, I still, we're not clear, we spent half a year, those half-years in that service are some people waiting for something, spent to turn one into another to say now after nine months, but we've been joking a little bit, what we've been doing, we've been joking a little bit to make it a little bit more interesting for you to have more laws in the debate, we actually don't need it at all, but it's going to be in the Ministry and when it's in the Ministry it's best possible. So much for rationalization, so much for knowing what we're doing. This points to the fact that, in fact, by ruling, they don't know what they're doing, they solve situations from opportunity to opportunity. When something is convenient for them to show as rationalization, then it turns out that when they're not comfortable, they show something different to their souls. We come up with that question, people who do it, what's most important to people who use services to get a favor, people who depend on the agricultural advisory service to know where they need to come, to know who, to know who it is, they don't care what it says on the door, it's important to them to get a favor and get that information they need to get. I, therefore, was once in the City of Zagreb, there were 15 municipalities. Among others, one of them was Medvesčak in Draskovic, which is one 15, 20 years, not so. My neighbor, I ask her neighbor where you're going, she tells me to go to the municipality in Draskovic, I have to pick up some paper, today she tells me. So, still in Draskovic, still her, as far as she's concerned, the Medvescak municipality and she's going there to get that paper. What am I saying? For someone who uses a service, it's not crucial and does not mean that board anywhere, it means to him where he will come, where he will get a favor and where someone will help him. So this board game, the memory game, the games as it's called, is a game where when the new boss comes, so much easier to give someone a solution, in fact they don't even have to solve it, they get a new solution, so they won't get the same thing or they'll get someone like that, and it's basically for that. But what we need to discuss further, this service has 306 employees, are we satisfied with how they do their job? Are we satisfied with the service they provide? Are we satisfied with what they're doing? There, on the ruling side, was a single replica, when the opening was, the secretary of state, where they expressed concern that it would not be the best possible, possible solution. The same way I'll never understand why we pretend to be smarter than everyone else? Do other countries that are members of the European Union have such services or are they otherwise regulated? What are those services doing there? So why do we have to be the smartest? So let's pick two or three countries that are in our role model, and let's see what they do and how they do, and then partially rewrite it. It turns out that other countries usually have that kind of service. So if they do, why isn't it our role model, but we think we're smarter than everyone else. Principleally, when you go into rationalization and when you really are going to show up and save on the budget, I have to admit my experience is that every time you try to show it as a budget savings, we get the reverse, we don't get the savings, but maybe it's really some special sensation, so this time it's something different. But we at the GLS and HUS Club can't support this hasty decision, we can't support it the same way that someone got the paper and between the two meetings when he had five minutes he said cross those, and, these agencies, let this go to the Ministry, here this, right there, that's not how business is done, and if you want to do a serious job, then you really need to do it and do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108457	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates. The first one came from a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then the individual respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic appeared. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So there was an individual debate, the esteemed representative, John Pernar. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. He also called for an individual debate and respected representative Branimir Bunjac. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And a respected representative, Branko Hrg, also appeared. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Now, on behalf of the president, the promoter, I'm sorry, something will say to the respected Secretary of State, Marija Vuckovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to thank, on behalf of the motionor, all the parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives who have discussed these five laws. I would also like to stress that this has been agreed by the Ministry of Agriculture on the development of the Development and Agriculture Strategy and the multiannual fisheries development plan as an appropriate timely preparation for the new Operational Programmes for the new financial period of the European Union. The first part of this job is making a complete diagnostic that will last for 4 months. The strategy will then be done, and beyond the Strategy, the Action Plan with 4 pilot projects, 2 in Adriatic Croatia, 2 in continental Croatia, and in drawing up complete documentation, will include a wide range of stakeholders, from scientific, civil, entrepreneurial and administrative sectors, and the public administration sector, and I believe that we will finally get what Croatia needs in terms of strategic development documents and timely preparation and use of funds in the new programming period. As far as this Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, our priorities, what we consider a gap now, are, where we feel a gap, is the association and producer of the organization, when we talk about the competitiveness of our producers in the international environment, generational restoration of agricultural economies, the approximation of farmers' markets and market mechanisms, and the need for digitisation, and this particular 4 segments will have an important +new place in the new systemization of the Ministry of Agriculture, and in further work. As regards certain objections and the answer I gave to the Legislative Committee, do not mind that I am going to complete a respected and respected representative, I did not say that it was a simple decision to implement, but that I said that it was an implementation of the Government's conclusion on the basis of the National Reform Programme and Mere 1.3, and that conclusion was imposed on all ministries, all central state administration bodies, to carry out an analysis and propose what would be appropriate and possible to rationalise by 1.1.2019. So it's crucial that some kind of analysis has been carried out, and if it can be, we'll see it all together. The network of consultants, and I see that the debate is focused on Croatian agriculture, the forest advisory service, remains the same, although the new law was adopted in early 2018, was published in NN No 15/2018. year, I don't think it was just about changing the name of the service, that the new law had passed and a certain legal basis for improving the work of the service. We will keep this promotion and improve, and we want to dedicate this commitment to all sectoral advisers, plant production, livestock production, use of funds, improve competitiveness, and we want to connect horizontal services, unite them, spend less on them, have greater efficiency and hope that we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108459	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She's the first respected representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108460	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm interested in how long this analysis lasted, how many stakeholders were involved in the analysis, the result of which was the termination of the Service, whether it was a public debate on whether or not you hired some advisers outside the Ministry's bodies because, as you have, here, and in the explanation now, you've decided to abolish the Service and include it in the Ministry, so I'm wondering how long it took, who participated, whether you've used some independent experts or if it was just work within the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108461	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108462	Thank you very much. So I think the analysis's been going on for about three weeks, if I remember correctly. On an informal basis, experts who were involved in the preparation of the project task for the negotiation of the action plan strategy and the pilot projects that we were doing with the World Bank at the time were involved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108463	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108464	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, dear secretary of state, I'm glad you responded to this. So, the analysis is done, I hope that, here, we and the Committee, and here also the legal representatives get the results of that analysis, that the strategy is agreed, that it goes into strategy. However, something I forgot to say in the debate may be things related to the EU's common agricultural policy. We often talk about it and the strategy should talk about it. However, we must admit that we and we cannot exactly share a common strategy, a common policy with the EU. In fact, there are differences in each country that are in the EU, some countries are already, I don't know, 30, 40 years in the EU, using incentives, subsidies to their farmers. And that's where we have to consider the very difference in each one. I hope that our Ministry will fight for a different perhaps little status of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian farmers because they are not all in the same position and clearly, this diversity may make it impossible for Croatian farmers in one better status.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108465	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108466	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative for his comments, suggestions and questions. I forgot to answer that as far as direct payments from your previous debate are concerned. We have one of the higher amounts per hectare, per hectare compared to other EU countries. As regards the common agricultural policy, a new draft new Regulation on the common strategic plan provides for a greater impact on each country's specific national specificities. Thus, the EU provides for a regulation to adopt the general objectives of several common objectives, focus, areas and priorities from which we cannot deviate, and to Member States and Member States, Member States will be given the opportunity to create specific measures that will best contribute to these common objectives and priorities and their specificities. We also have certain productive payments, sensitive payments, payments for sensitive sectors, and I hope that we will manage to fight for our national specificities and our needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108467	Thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point or points, these five points, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108468	Final draft law on the termination of the law on Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory service, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 500, here's your colleague Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108469	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 10-minute break in order for the club to consult on the vote on this bill and the following legislation, where there is one, the Croatian public should be informed that this government and this minister of agriculture and vice-president of the government have decided to cut down the number of agencies, abolish the agricultural and forestry advisory services, the abolished Croatian agricultural agency. There is no one for a year that we have passed the law here on Croatia's agricultural advisory forestry service, you have all here, there are phonograms, boasting that it is a good service, that it is necessary for Croatia's agriculture to develop, to catch a rhythm with developed producers, the OPGs from the EU, have been asked to have more resources in order to be more on the ground, to write programmes to our farmers, to withdraw more funds from the EU, and now, not even after a year, we end that service, we bring it together with the Ministry of Agriculture, we do technical problems, since they are accredited to implement some measures through the education of our agricultural producers. It is simply a question of what kind of agriculture we want in Croatia, whether we need food production in the Republic of Croatia, whether these consultants can help our producers. I'm sure I can because you've all been saying that here. Now we cut them off, connect them to the ministry. You know why? He says it's a million-and-a-half kuna savings. And the damage will be much greater. Because we said we want an advisory service like Slovenia, Austria, Bavaria, to help these advisers help our OPGs, to develop agriculture in Croatia, and we are going back to where, there in the area of the East because Romania has abolished the advisory service, so do we want a farm like Romania or do we want the kind of farm that is in Bavaria or France? So let's give it to the people, let's not let the Croatian public What are we doing? [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a break. [[The incursion of the president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108470	Well, then we'll continue at 12.40. I'm just asking you to be right here so we can finish the vote by 1 o'clock. MEETING IN 12.32 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.40 HOURS]] We don't have much left, so I'm asking you to take your seats. It is therefore the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on Croatia's agricultural forest advisory service, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 500. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Act on Croatia's Agricultural Forest Advisory Service. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 86 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the Law on the termination of the Law on Croatia is a agricultural forest advisory service.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108601	We now have the following two points, in line with the SDP and HDZ Clubs proposal, I propose that a united debate be held on, therefore, before the announced point is announced. Does anyone have a problem with that? There isn't. So we can unite them, and we'll have a united debate on the point: No. 499 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, first reading of P.Z. Number 494. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Based on an article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to give an additional explanation. Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108602	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, respected MPs and MPs at HS. We have two motions before us. The first is the Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, the second is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. As regards the very proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office in the National Reform Programmes for the Republic of Croatia, attention has been paid to supporting and strengthening the role of the State Audit Office and, above all, strengthening the capacity of the office itself. In addition, the European Commission has stated in its recommendations that it is necessary to approach the development of a sanctioning model for non-compliance with the recommendations of the State Audit Office. As you know, according to the existing legal solution, in the case of non-compliance with the recommendations of the State Audit Office, such non-compliance has not been sanctioned. Therefore, the recommendation of the European Commission was also to draw up a proposal to amend the existing legislative framework, and as far as statistics are concerned, this statistics account for 31.8% of the order in 2017 where the recommendations of the State Audit Office were not carried out. It was also 27.9% in 2016 and 29.2% in 2015. Following this, the development of the sanctioning model for non-compliance with the recommendations... making a proposal to amend the existing legislative framework. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this Proposal for a Law compared to the applicable Law, the jurisdiction of the State Audit Office itself, the audit entities, the management of the State Regulatory Authority, the implementation of the orders and recommendations, the criminal provisions and provisions in connection with the non-determined legal provisions are more detailed if they do not comply with this Proposal of the Law. In addition, this Proposal lays down the competence of the State Audit Office and of the revision of the CNB. The way in which the CNB audit is carried out is in line with the opinion of the European Central Bank on the ways in which the Central Bank audit is carried out, in particular with the opinions of the ICON 2016, number 33 and 52, from 2018 number 17 and 2018, of their latest opinion number 45 relating to the CNB. In essence, the following can be recapitalised, with independent external auditors and the State Audit Office, allowing the conduct of the CNB audit. When determining the scope of the audit, it is taken into account that the scope of the audit must be clearly established, by means of a legal framework and without prejudice to the tasks of the examination of all accounts and the accounts of the central bank by an independent external auditor in accordance with the principle of institutional independence, in accordance with the prohibition of giving instructions to the national central bank and its decision-making bodies and may not affect the tasks of the national central bank associated with the European System of Central Banks. All of this has been confirmed and, lastly, I say, the position of the European Central Bank under the designation CON 2018/45. In addition, this draft law lays down the types of audits in accordance with the audit.../incomprehensible/... international organisations of the Supreme Audit Institutions, etc. Insai standards. Furthermore, the procedure for determining the level and content of the draft financial plan of the State Audit Office, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the framework of the proposal for a state budget, is amended. It is new that the Annual Financial Report of the State Audit Office, drawn up in accordance with the Budget Law and its sublegislative regulations, is subject to an audit which is subject to independent external auditor's audit rules. According to this proposal, the law of independent external auditors carrying out the audit shall appoint the Board of the Croatian Assembly responsible for finance and the state budget, and its audit report on the audit carried out and the annual financial report of the State Audit Office shall be an integral part of the report on the work of the State Audit Office. In addition, this proposal for a law further elaborated the procedure following the completion of the audit with particular emphasis on the performance of the audited entity and the obligation of the audited entity, taking into account the conduct of penalties for non-compliance with the orders and recommendations of the State Audit Office. Furthermore, it is established that the follow-up to the implementation plan, the order and the recommendation to which the audit entity or entity relates is required in writing to inform the State Office of the execution of a specific order or recommendation within 30 days of the expiry of the planned time of execution. At the same time, the State Audit Office shall verify the implementation of the tasks and recommendations in the context of the implementation of the audit itself. Where such procedures establish that certain orders and recommendations have not been carried out or that the audit entity has not submitted the implementation plan and recommendations within the time limit laid down by the State Audit Office will inform the competent State Attorney, which will in that case initiate the appropriate procedure. Therefore, the introduction of a new model for sanctioning audit entities if the specific law does not exclude its responsibility, that is, in the case of an audit entity of the Republic of Croatia, as well as responsible persons. It would also sanction leaders if they did not take measures to comply with the orders and recommendations of the State Audit Office and which were made in the previous period. Also, sanctions in the form of fines are provided for entities if they do not deliver within the prescribed time limit to the State Office for the revision of the implementation plan of orders and recommendations. Therefore, in addition to the existing criminal provisions, in the sense that the audit entity does not cooperate, that it does not provide the necessary documentation, documents, reports, records or other documentation, two more cases are now added, i.e. if the audit entities fail to submit the implementation plan and recommendations within the prescribed time limit and if the audit entity does not carry out the tasks and recommendations given in the audit report within the time limit set out in the implementation plan and recommendations. This law also strengthens the conditions relating to the appointment of the Chief State Auditor and his deputy, and finds that the obligations for auxiliary auditors in the sense of the obligation to pass an expert examination in the sense of calling an authorised State Auditor and, if such an examination is not passed within the time limit set, loses the right to the State Service. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions of investment firms, I would only remind myself that the applicable law regulates the rules, procedures and instruments for the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, then the powers, tasks of the resolution and competent authorities, and the establishment, financing and use of the funds of the Sanitary Fund and the management of the fund. The law together complies fully with Directive 2014/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a framework for the recovery and rehabilitation of credit institutions and investment firms and amending Council Directive 82/891 of theEEC and 8 Directives and 2 of the European Parliament and of the Council. With regard to the adoption of the Directive itself in 2014, this Directive 59, just to remind us, was the trigger to the adoption of such a directive a financial crisis which showed that there was a significant lack of appropriate instruments at EU level to effectively address the problem of unhealthy or fallen credit institutions and investment companies. The Directive is therefore adopted with a view to establishing a system that will provide Member States' competent resolution authorities with a set of instruments for sufficient level and rapid intervention in a failing or likely to fail, in order to ensure the creation of key functions of the institution while at the same time limiting the impact of the institution's failure on the economic and financial system to the least possible extent. In view of the strong international link between the EU financial markets and the resolution of such problem institutions, it was necessary to coordinate at the level of the EU itself clearly. Therefore, in accordance with the obligation to continue to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis, it is proposed to adopt this law, and to align the applicable law with the new Directive No 2017/2399 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December last year amending Directive 2014 which I mentioned earlier as regards the ranking of unsecured debt instruments in the intervention hierarchy. Just to remind you, therefore, this directive has determined as regards this Directive in 2017 to improve the possibility of the resolution of institutions, this Directive provides for the establishment of a new category of debt instrument, called non-privileged and unsecured debt instruments, these are, in general, bonds and other forms of transferable debt and instruments that create or recognise debt and which meet, of course, the legal requirements laid down. In these debt instruments the demand of their owners in... the procedure takes place in a multi-payment order compared to the transactions of the holders of the regulatory capital but also in a lower payment order compared to those in which it is not agreed between the creditor and the institution that they are subordinated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you introduce the third one between the layers between these two types of instruments. Since the main purpose of issuing a new category of debt instruments is to comply with the minimum requirement of a provision of the applicable law in the course of fulfilling the minimum requirement, it is complemented by provisions on non-privileged, unsecured debt instruments as a new category of debt instruments. To conclude, I can only mention that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108603	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First up is a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108604	Thank you very much. So, the Law on the State Audit Office is, among other things, the result of all the discussions we had when we discussed the office's activities but also one newspaper, which is a revision on the CNB. Since there has already been a series of objections in the Croatian Parliament and there have been answers in which the work can be done and in which the work cannot be audited, and in the end there has been a response to which you refer from 2018, I assume that the bill has been submitted and that this bill has been answered because this revision is exactly limited and said what a revision can be done in the CNB, and I am interested in whether this bill has indeed been communicated in a certain way with the CNB as well as with the central bank, that they have seen what proposal we have and that this proposal actually meets the regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108605	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108606	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Madam Representative. So, of course, when making the law itself, all institutions are contacted, including the CNB. You remember a long period of coordination with these contexts of the jurisdiction of the State Office for the Audit of the CNB but it went first and foremost in the context of the European Central Bank and its observations in terms of the area of revision of their working methods. So not in the part of monetary work, where the CNB is independent, but in the use of material finance and funds used naturally from the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108607	Thank you. A colleague of Ante Babic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108608	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. In the proposal for this law concerning the State Audit Office, there is actually one novelty related to the annual reports of the State Audit Office which will now be subject to the actual audit of external auditors and this report by external auditors as I understand it, will be attached to the annual report of the State Auditor. From now on, external auditors will be elected through the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, however, I have not seen whether this will be done every year, this competition for external auditors or whether they will be elected as such in one term of four years by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108609	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108610	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, it is therefore not limited by law that it may be someone in continuity for 4 years so that it is interrupted or forbidden to be a second auditor every year, which is, of course, the jurisdiction of the relevant committee of this High House, and in that sense I assume that this committee will each year appoint a new auditor because this report is ultimately as you have said itself, an integral part of the report on the work of the State Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108611	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of MPs, first registered colleague Miro Bulj, no MPs, in accordance with Article 233, he loses the right to talk about this item on the agenda. The next colleague is Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please welcome fellow Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108612	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, there are two laws ahead of us, one is to say the technical nature, but there's a lot to be said about it, because the consequences of something that's costing every country in the world hundreds of billions of kuna, but let's start with the law, actually, the State Audit Act. So the purpose of this law is what the Proposer wants to do with this law can be seen in several findings and facts, first of all wanting to increase even greater independence and success of the State Audit Office. So, when you look at that the State Audit Office gets one special status in the state budget and what's very important, for the first time in history the material and financial use of the funds approved in the National Assembly is controlled by an independent auditor. It wasn't until now. So far, we've been in the business of the State Audit Office and nobody's controlled or audited, they were practically the only user, one of the few users of the state budget that nobody has noticed, but it's simply a fact and I want to specifically warn that it's a single newspaper. And what I would like to propose to the proposer, so to the Ministry of Finance, I think it would be a good idea to take an independent auditor's choice here for a period of time, that he can work for 2 or 3 or 4 years, and that when the Finance Committee appoints him, that he can name him for 4 years, because look, frankly, someone when he enters an institution, he needs time to get to know himself, maybe a real audit will only take another year. But it's also not good when it's too much somewhere in the audit, so it might be good that in the Law, the Government's Amendment or this we go, it's going to be four years, and I think we've basically solved everything, and this State Audit Office will simply define certain things with its internal structure and financial plan. The second thing, I am glad that there is finally a provision in this Law that the State Audit Office can control the business of the CNB. And I'm glad that's how it's done. We also have the opinion of the European Central Bank where it is clearly defined what the State Audit Office can control and the logical thing is that it cannot interfere with certain things that guarantee the independence of the Central Bank. And I think that's well-defined. And it is good that this goes through the Government proposal because we have defined, among other things, how and how the laws relating to the Central Bank are changed in the agreements we have adopted and signed in the negotiations to join the EU. And with such a proposal when the Resort Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia goes with the amendment of the Law which regulates it, means the State Audit to control, this, the work of the Central Bank, also indicates a certain seriousness because, I repeat, there have been various political and a little bit of policy proposals and stories, but it was in principle that state auditors enter and control, and even some area for which they are not professional enough, is that, in principle, they do not meet with that monetary part in life, they have a whole other kind of control, other financial business and a different way of working, and the question is how much, this, that revision would be quality. But here we have, therefore, the law defines that an international independent auditor controls the business, this, the Central Bank and this report of these independent auditors can always be obtained and can be seen what their opinion, thinking about, this, the Central Bank's operations. Also, what I personally like about this bill's proposal is to follow the implementation plan, the order and the recommendation. Look, colleagues and colleagues, here we are, in the Assembly, as many of us as we are, more or less all of us, either via local or state level, we've met many times with various reports of the State Auditor. And then you have those, first you get that first report, then the one that that report is done for, manifested and then finally you have the final report of the State Audit Office. Al, however, what is most important, did the one who was the State Audit Office correct what he told him. So, we, unfortunately, in the State Office's audit reports for some units of local self-government, local and regional self-government, and also for some budget users of the state budget, we have certain mistakes that occur year after year, so if something can't be done to make the required use of, this, the means, then it needs to change the law and which tells us to do so, and not that we have the laws to stay, every year the State's audit finds that something is not good, and that's why it's good here that the State's Office is giving a deadline and that's in that time period, and that's in 30 days, the one who's audited, doesn't show, doesn't do something, the State Audit Office will inform the competent State Attorney General who's going to initiate the infringement procedure. And what's also not in the law here, that's what we built in, I think it's the General Tax Law, and that's what it is. binding opinion. Because I think that colleagues and colleagues of many mayors, mayors, mayors, or ministers or some other heads of state would be much easier to work in life if they had some business event they didn't meet on a daily basis, which they might meet once in 4, 5 years, but some others have also met with this and the State Audit Office has, therefore, to say the word and in the manual, how they should behave in this business event. And I think it would be good if it were, I know, but in a certain way, that if a written opinion is requested, or if that provision exists in the law, maybe if I had skipped out, so I didn't read it well, so that one such opinion could be issued by the State Office for Audition and tomorrow when they come to revise that business subject and if there was a chance of any opposition that he could say, listen, I was working in your opinion which is binding and then that opinion is practically applied in the field of the entire Republic and I think it would be an additional step that would prevent it, could be an irregularity or some things that are not at the end of the mind to whoever is responsible for the use of the means to commit a legal offence, he simply did not know how to act in a certain situation. So it may seem a banal thing, but in a situation where you're responsible for something, I think it's a very, very important thing, especially for those who often do not face certain business events and do not know how to act in that case. So, the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office with this note, perhaps consider a period of review for 4 years, I think it would be something that is good and this second proposal of the Law on, the Law on the Resuscitation of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies. So, very interestingly, this directive was adopted in 2014. For two years or three years, much stronger and stronger EU members have emerged from the crisis. How many disputes were there about it and how much, in practice, selfishness was from those stronger because they were all being saved as they could in their own way, they used a wide variety of and isolated things and hidden potentials and various and isolated things and hidden potentials to save their economies, their financial institutions, and it took a long time to bring this Regulation into line. What Croatia needs... as one small member of the European Union, this Regulation is welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we will simply be part of something and our financial institutions, which are financially small, will be provided in such a way. However, what I want to say to this occasion is that in this Assembly, some statements about the behaviour and situation in the Republic of Croatia are very often unargumented during the financial and economic crisis in 2008 and 2009. The financial sector of the Republic of Croatia came out of the crisis practically intact. The synergy of the activities of the Croatian National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Our business bank didn't fail, we can't talk about funds, we can't tell God what, these funds that, 4 funds, which are mandatory pension funds had certain losses, but on the total amount of funds when taken, it wasn't something more significant that shook them up, and that should be said this time. So this is a technical law which is welcome for small countries such as the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108613	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is counterpart Stjepan Curaj outside HNS's Club of Representatives. Since he is neither, in accordance with Article 233, he loses the right to talk about this item of the agenda for which he applied. After that, we have an application on behalf of the GLS and HSU Representatives Club, counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108614	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished state secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So, a united debate is on two laws. Since the Honorable colleague Shucker has said, it is a technical law, so I will still be bound by the Law on the State Audit Office. When you look at the legislation that regulates the State Office for Auditing and Doings, you see exactly what moves are and what progress is there. We often treat the laws as if they were carved into stone, and when anyone wants to change anything, then there are many obstacles about it, and this shows exactly what progress it is and what we have made here in terms of the revision. When the audits started at all, according to them it was a distance, then there were different grades, then someone boasted and said, "I'm good for my work, someone's rated something worse, I have to admit that I'm always the work of the State Audit Office, I also realized the educational part where they did the job, where you could ask something and where you could get certain experience not to repeat it. Somehow it seems to me that it's always important that from the results of the Audit Office, that what it says there, you don't repeat it. As often as that, when you are a state official, when you have an opportunity or an opportunity to manage a budget, often behind that people have a need to sort of evaluate your work, and your work is best assessed by the State Audit Office, because it makes an audit and exactly says what is done well, and what is not done well, and from that you see what is generally in a certain budgetary, how is managed by the budget. Likewise, since it is segmented, you can also see in relation to the units of local self-government as they manage, I must admit, I often try very often from this pay phone, and I always use some kind of connection to the City of Zagreb, so when you deal with the City of Zagreb, very, very interesting are the findings of the State Audit, because it writes everything inside. It writes exactly how, better said not to manage, what is done, how is ignored, as if the City of Zagreb had no property management strategy, to manage from case to case, and in this part it is extremely useful. By the way, this law, I read in three somehow, three groups. One is the Office, how the Office should work, how it manages the Office, which is the responsibility of the Chief State Auditor, just as it was initially said, and that the assistants now have certain obligations. The second group is connected to the Croatian National Bank. So, when the Croatian National Bank is mentioned, now those colleagues who used it in various different ways, with the idea of entering the Croatian National Bank, there is nothing to do, there is no more in the Assembly, obviously very much, when the Law is not interested, they are interested in other hours or maybe there are not enough cameras so I can't do certain performances, I have to admit when I looked at the Law, and it was on the Committee on Law, but then we had relatively little time, because it was a subject and a rebalancing, and the budget, I stayed a little in the first step found, why the Croatian National Bank? Then when I read what it says and what you answered, a little bit of talking to colleagues from the Croatian National Bank, I realized that you were there, you didn't cross that thin line. So, the Croatian National Bank, we need to know this is an independent institution and its independence, independence, is extremely important for any state, and this is something that some kind of postulate and the foundations of a state that wants to be normal and excessive. So that thin line, it's not good to cross it and this legal framework is exactly what it is. I'm sure that if you see that something here may not be defined to the end or you get into some kind of problem that you'd become self-sufficient, that the result will be a possible amendment to the law. I must admit that my personal experience, and as state officials in the executive government, and what I have the opportunity as a parliamentary representative to see the results of the Office, is one of the offices that you can generally well assess. I stress that every time, and I don't have any problem, no matter what I'm an opposition representative, when someone does a good word, people of my people do well, we don't have to be every time.../incomprehensible/... just because we somehow experience that it's the role of opposition. The opposition must be critical, it must be clear, it must affect someone's better. And that's what you can see from this law, and I'm extremely pleased and I think it's very important that this law defines how the implementation of orders and recommendations is. Every time there's been a review here and we've discussed it then you've always got hot units of local self-government or companies then you've got those that like got a unit, so there's some in the middle and they're some 5 or minus 5s. And then behind, then we all wonder what's behind? He got some report it was neatly put, finger in ear still, and it's always a question of what behind because that report wasn't about to pile up paper, so we'd have a debate here that was more or less interesting. The result of this report is that we should be better, that someone who comes behind that chief, mayor or he in the second term is better, that he does not repeat mistakes, that the error that the chief did not know in Slavonia, does not repeat the one in Dalmatia if there is the same problem, or a mistake that one of the ministers is not to repeat the next minister in another ministry and it is good that there are deadlines in which there is something to be done, that there is a plan to remove something and that there are sanctions. The sanctions need and always the topic may be debates here are this article 35. which speaks about the infringement provisions whether they should be such or otherwise, I think at this point they should be. Are they too, if they are too, and these dragon penalties have always proved to be not good, because when it's not, it seems to me that it's in some real frames and we're giving the possibility of the law living. Let's see the first group, when we first do what the result is going to be and then see, so every law should give it a chance to live. When you first define something in the law, you're not smart enough whether you do it right or not. You did the best you could at that moment and you knew. Whether it's going to be a good result or not, the law has to live, and so I think this law must, too, live in that part. I stress, indeed, this revision relating to the CNB and this Article 35, which introduces certain infringements for those who will not act, which will not do what they are ordered to do. I have to admit, in principle, I think these roles and tasks that independent auditors have are good. Now we come up with a key question, how many do we have? Yeah, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, what are they going to experience? I'm sure they have experience in some real sector quite enough and good, which will apply to all the obligations they have and I think it would be for exercise, but the exercise that was real is good to see from that first independent auditor who's going to audit the State Audit Office. So we'll actually see what it is, you'll see, we'll see and we'll see what it is and you'll be in the end line very well that the really real audit of an independent auditor is in the State Audit Office for the simple reason, you know what it is in the State Audit Office and you'll be the best judge in which part of it you understand, you don't understand, there will certainly be misunderstandings, it has to be because someone who comes from the real sector is looking at it a little differently. So I kind of pass this we can't write it in the law, but I think it would be good because it's one newspaper, when you're introducing a newspaper, you've always never done the smart enough, you've made a good model for me by reading the law, and it seems to me that it's a good thing that we have and that's a good thing to do, and that's that step further. So when we discuss legislation at all, the subject can also be us if we stand in place and if we don't step out we will have better or worse laws, someone will like something more or less. But I'm absolutely convinced when it comes to any law that you should take a step further, maybe that step further turns out to be either excessive or wrong, but let's do it let the law give you the opportunity to live and then we can just do something. In that sense, the GLAS and HSU Club will support this law, and so far, when the subject and the findings of the State Audit Office have always discussed it and assessed that it is one of the offices that works well, through these assessments we emphasized that the funds for the office need bigger and now you have them bigger, which is good, yes, yes. Likewise, they said that there should be sanctions or tools for those who do not do their job well as you have found, it is good that we have an independent auditor but let's really make that first independent auditor work, for your sake so let's see what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108615	Thank you, too, and let's continue the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Following on behalf of SDP's Club of Representatives is counterpart Boris Lalovac, a fellow member of Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108616	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear secretary of state with a co-worker from the Ministry of Finance, respected colleagues and colleagues. I think today we have a united discussion of the two laws very briefly on this first law on the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on the Restitution of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, in fact, it is a legal proposal of only 4 articles where the EU Directive adopted in 2014 was largely related to how they were to be rehabilitated and who would be rescheduled in the future of the financial institution. As we know for many years until this great crisis in 2008, in 2009, all financial institutions have always rehabilitated citizens, either directly through the state budget or some indirect issue of some kind of bond, and again, that part was actually part of the public debt. We also remember the crisis in Slovenia, when their banks were in trouble, so that it took over part of the public debt. And then the European Commission, decided to change the governance model and said, will no longer be resolved, that it will go to the expense of the budget and the public money, but it will no longer be that bill out, means that they are actually being recovered from the outside, but beil in. It means resembling, that banks, financial institutions, should resuscitate themselves, in ranking, in a way that regulates that capital and who should first resuscitate when it comes to this, the crisis situation. Thus, in this part, only this directive is further complemented, or upgraded. As regards the introduction of a new category of debt into the instrument, non-privileged and unsecured debt instruments are bonds and other forms of transferable debt, and instruments that generate or recognise debt and which meet the prescribed conditions. So the main purpose of issuing a new category of debt instruments is to meet the minimum requirement by means of certain obligations. So in the bankruptcy procedure, when the specific indemnity procedure is launched or opened against the financial institution of the claimant's non-privileged, unsecured debt instruments, they would enter a higher payment order, compared to the claims of the holder of the regulatory capital, but in a lower payment order compared to those in which there is no contract between the creditors and the institution that they are subordinated. So by determining the position of search, holding, new categories, debt instruments, the application of internal recovery instruments is significantly facilitated. So, as we have said, this law primarily speaks of an internal recovery, means that financial institutions, i.e. the bank needs itself first with all these capitals, which, both in debt and regulatory terms, are first settled, in a way that reduces the risk, of legal refuting by creditors on the basis of the growing loss of creditors from the recovery of losses that would have suffered from their bankruptcy proceedings. So this part is actually the part that we're bringing into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia and there's something about it if it happened in the future of such a situation, now we have the mechanism, the way the internal recovery of the financial institution itself. So as for this proposal itself and the amendments to the Law on Renaissance and Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, the SDP Club will certainly support it, because we think that not only is this a directive, but it is a certain form, where it will certainly in the future and those financial institutions will put under some stricter control and their owners that they do not play exactly on the financial market, as counterpart Shucker said, and then you have a situation that the CNB and the Ministry of Finance must plant their backs and not at all participate in the management of these processes, they did not participate in the creation of the economic and financial crisis, we know that their administrations, supervisory committees, etc., participated in the entire system, and then suddenly comes, when they come into trouble, then call either the finance minister or the CNB give us help. So here, primarily okay, it will go to the detriment of their shareholders, so that we consider not only what is in this directive, which is good, what is applied, but that it is in such a context and this way of risk management of financial institutions, will now be more closely controlled than those owners themselves, shareholders of these financial institutions, because it will not matter to me, whether they are so exposed to the risk of a financial institution. The second law is a proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office. So as far as we can see here, here's a whole new law, meaning a whole new law, where we have a few newspapers. So the law has about 40 articles that regulates the way the State Audit Office works. And there they are, in fact, I would briefly say about the main newspaper in this law itself. We even discussed it on the Finance Committee a little bit, in which way, especially about Art. 4. where the resources for the work of the State Audit Office will now be provided in the state budget, however, the Board of the Croatian Assembly of Finance and the State Budget, approves the draft financial plan for the next year and the projections for the next 2 years. And we believe that we have nothing against it, we know that the State Audit Office is a very important institution and that it must have sufficient financial resources to carry out comprehensive audits and we see here even in the light of this law how much funding will be needed by the State Office for the revision to carry out and obtain new tasks and we have nothing against. However, we believe that these are people who are highly qualified and on the basis of which we are discussing here in the Parliament, we are making important decisions, correcting, let's say some mistakes in the system that they notice. And we think these people really have to be well paid, they have to be well educated. And this part that must have a certain part of the material fee, because you know, when you compare the market, the auditor market, that when we look, whether they're state auditors, or people who are going to perform a state audit, and you know very well that their competitors on the market, such as large audit houses, are simply calling for young experts to come to them and that actually the State Audit Office can't be competitive to carry out quality audits. And now we see a new law giving them new powers, so that they can perform a part of their work neatly and that a part of the young staff does not go to the market, because we know that the market can always pay them more than can be paid unfortunately by the state or public administration, we think and say, and since their reports are very important for the functioning of the state system and we welcome and there is no doubt that these people should be rewarded and should be paid because they are doing a very difficult and demanding job. The second part, what we were talking about, is art. The 11th revision of the CNB which has opened up a lot of polemics and in the past, I know that even some clubs have personally proposed it, perhaps to a different formulation, but here I certainly support the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it has set out in this step where it has communicated it with the European Central Bank, where it has communicated it with the Commission, means the entire process is satisfied, it is formally satisfied that it can be started and audited by the CNB, which certainly if it is elected here in this High House, if we choose here in this House and vote for the Governor, if we accept their reports or certain reports that we are aware of, and if what we have said several times, the Government has to pass the control of the State Audit Office. This High House, the Croatian Parliament must pass the control of the State Audit Office, the Office of the President must pass the control of the Office, the State Audit Office. And we believe that it is very clear and transparent that this must also be done by the CNB without any investment in the conduct of monetary policy operations because it is not the job of the State Audit Office, nor will anyone ever ask questions about monetary policy and their scope of business. However, since this House also defines the law which is the revenue of the state, the CNB and that they actually have defined resources from what we have voted here, we believe that this House has the right and that part of the revenue that they are actually creating and spending on their operational business to pass the control of the State Audit Office and here is very much, I say through Article 11, Article 12, Article 13, those three articles that have been inserted into this new bill proposal that we certainly support, we welcome both in this context and on the other hand, and those funds that the State Audit Office must have greater resources because it must also be different teamsed not just to carry out a revision of a financial institution such as the CNB. So, but not to mix two types of audits because there are CNBs and today has an external audit but has a revision of their financial reports. So they will also continue to have a revision of financial, annual financial reports as the CNB, which has a whole number of years, but this is about internal audit which, where this report will also be discussed within the part of the State Audit Office's report and we consider it certainly a positive step and therefore need to get all possible support from the State Audit Office. And what is third, which is very important, in the amendments to this law, is a way of defining when the State Audit Office brings its own reports, when it makes certain recommendations and we know that they are also auditing local self-government and self-government and numerous ministries and numerous agencies and that their coverage is quite wide. However, after these specific reports have passed here, a very large part of these sad recommendations that are positive to be arranged, to edit their system, for many years there are numerous and irregularities that we do not say otherwise. And here, the very clear days of certain deadlines and terms and, respectively, and if certain, if this is not followed by the reports of the State Audit Office shall be referred to certain proposals and to the State Attorney's Office for the initiation of certain infringements. When, in fact, the European Commission was, when it analyzed certain projects in which to improve certain methods of work, or the overall system of strengthening public administration, were certainly one of the models, which were and were, in fact, giving you some recommendations to strengthen the Office of the State Office for Auditing and not only to discuss their reports here in the Assembly but also to enable them to technically find certain irregularities that I say can be random,... be because these are major systems, so they do not have to be certain intentional errors, however, that much more supervision is given, to be given to implement these, their proposals by the State Audit Office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, even when we were having certain discussions on how to strengthen the systems of state and public administration through the systems of certain controls, the primary office had a State Audit Office. And now we hope that with this and the legal proposal they will be able to strengthen it because so far they have not had such instruments that they can also make those recommendations that they have actually implemented to the end. So all these specific proposals on behalf of the SDP club we support, we believe that they can contribute both stronger and more independently to the work of the State Audit Office that should be said for simply such a game on the financial market, that they have to be given more funds, that they can do these jobs because we gave them another additional job here today, we gave them but they certainly have to be adequate and paid for it. And then as far as that goes, and when we discuss and through these decisions, what the State Audit Office has to do later is to do after a year or two days through a certain system that it has to be implemented. We hope that by strengthening this legislative proposal, these particular problems that have been observed in the system will be dealt with in the future. So the SDP Club will support both of these legal proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108617	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. That's what ended the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next as an individual, colleague Ivan Lovrinovic was reported, the MP has no idea what it means to lose the right to speak on the subject of the agenda. That's what we concluded the debate on the draft law on the State Audit Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 499 and the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the recovery of credit institutions and world societies, first reading, P.Z. No. 494, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We've exhausted the agenda for today. So the sequel is tomorrow with the draft law on the use of the assistant dog, first reading, P.Z. No. 496. Thank you very much and have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 14.52 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-28-0.u108618	Proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office, first reading, P.Z. No. 499. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on the State Audit Office and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 92 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues, today is the first item of the Proposal for a Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog, but before that, I see that a colleague of Grumoja has come forward, please.
