ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87172	... By taking effect this Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain in December of last year, the power to implement this law, a very complex law, was given to the Competition Protection Agency. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] This law provides that the Agency must comply with its statutes and general acts with the provisions of this law within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law, that period shall expire on 7 July. Amendments and additions to the Statutes of the Agency I would say are of a significant technical nature, the catalogue of the Agency’s authority is primarily extended to these tasks which the Agency has received and a new sector for unfair commercial practices has been reorganised within the professional service, this sector is teamed up at the end of April of the first year, is employed by 4 lawyers and 2 economists, for them the funds are secured in the state budget for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, amounting to one million kuna and 300,000 kuna, I think that would be in fact everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87173	Are you done? Have a seat, then. [[Intruder Cerovac: Yes.]] Let's go now with the replicas, we have two, the first is a respected colleague, Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87174	Thank you, Mr. President. The President-in-Office of the Council, since the new law of unfair commercial practices provides for the employment of 6 employees you have said, is it interested since they are employed and is all the equipment necessary to carry out conflicts of interest operations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87175	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87176	If I understand correctly, so we've hired six experts, these are lawyers with a legal exam and four years of legal training after a legal exam and how many people we're going to need, we don't know yet, so we haven't received any formal or anonymous application as far as this law is concerned. What the Agency does, the Agency analyses those markets, has been asked by 31 trade chains to deliver their data, contracts that they have concluded with new suppliers and with the old ones, and that is so far what can be done because we do not have, have turned some market examination procedures on the basis of the article in the press, so in the media, it is tomatoes and strawberries if I am not wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87177	Let's go to another replica, dear fellow Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87178	Thank you very much. This is not a criticism to anyone, however, I must say that when there was a debate on this law in this House of Commons, I was at the time arguing that the AZTN law must be amended. I'm told you don't need it. And why did I answer the line? So, one good law that needs to be made, we have to keep an eye on those so-called. I like to call them bound laws. Laws that must be passed in parallel with the basic law because otherwise the basic law is inadmissible. But I repeat, that's when I said in my debate that AZTN can't do the job without changing the law, I'm convinced it can work. And this may be, I say, not a criticism to you but to all of us not to object to why some things don't work, we simply have to be careful when we pass some laws to change all the laws, so that at the moment the law comes into force, we can operationally prepare that law to apply it as soon as possible, we unfortunately this law probably before autumn will hardly be able to apply it properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87179	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87180	So I don't know what to say to that, of course, and there's such a possibility of changing the whole law, but there's a set of different circumstances, there's also the preparation of the Law on Public Agencyes and there should really either wait or do... Yes, yes, I understand. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] However, I think there will be no problem with the application of this law, we simply need to get some material, someone has to tell us something concrete that some redeemer or trader does not want to buy from him in relation to, or that he does not respect the law in relation to the conditions prescribed by this law, and that is all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87181	All right, let's go to the committees. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. So now it's the government's turn, if he wants to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. So then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, dear fellow Panenic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87182	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed President of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency. Last year we passed the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices, which clearly indicated that the implementation of the Law itself would be in the hands of the Competition Protection Agency. One of the obligations was to amend the statutes, if I can now conclude, we are now in June, it's been six months, to change the statutes at all, which I think, by looking at the importance of the law that was then passed, should have been significantly more hasty, I haven't heard the reasons why it took six months to align the statutes, but maybe it's less important. Less important than the fact we have on the market today. Of course, in the expectation of agricultural producers in Croatia whether the law itself will make its adoption, its application, which had its delay, significantly improve the situation on the market. Here is also the report that was recently made on the website of the Competition Protection Agency, 1/3 of the contracts that were not extended last year. And there is already an indication of the reasons for the current crisis and of this crisis that his colleague Nikola Grmoja, for which he requested a break of 1/3 of the contract, 1/3 of the goods under these contracts, as well as those 2/3 where the issue of the scope of those contracts was extended, whether the extended contracts were complete or only in one part. Many examples are that trade practice has nevertheless found models to bypass the application of this law. I will continue to say then that the task of the Competition Protection Agency, that they were an implementing body, was a mistake. A mistake for reasons, because the director himself said, we're waiting for someone to report a certain irregularity. Because it's a model of function that you have prescribed as such, and it's really asking the question, is now the time to think about moving it to the Ministry of Economy, to a market inspection that can be more operational, which is on the ground, which can also look for such anomalies, rather than sitting and waiting. 'Cause who's supposed to pick up? Manufacturers who are in an unfavourable position should report. Whoever comes forward may have a victory of beer in a way, that his agency will determine that he is in an unfavourable position to get certain rights, but that he will surely lose the contract he had in the future. Following the situation on the market, it is shown that precisely the purchase of the product, at higher prices, when our producers made better income on their production, it is definitely gone, it has been substituted, cheaper, more favourable import products, it remains only for us when the heart of the production season, when the lowest prices are, to deliver at those lowest prices that can only be marketed, that they do not have to cut trees, that no culture has to be fooled. And then on average, our manufacturer loses. He had so far found a bill a little higher prices at the beginning of the season, so it was used with the lower one at the end, and there was his income, his earnings. We have seen a statement and ministries related to this crisis, which is in the Neretva Valley, which will certainly be spilled in the same way in another region of the Republic of Croatia, as it will now come to fruit and vegetables that there will be no sufficient ransom primarily for those largest quantities produced. We will reduce production, and we have not achieved the purpose and purpose of this law. I now ask the question, whether or not the adoption of amendments to the statutes will achieve the goal. Whether the agency will find a model of how it can act. Whether our producers will report with unfair commercial scratches, which they consider unfair. In what time it will be carried out, if we see that action is determined to have its own procedure. I'm afraid 2018 is over, she won't get the law this year won't get the effects and we all have to agree on that. It's impossible at this point, without seriously changing the law, to make order on the market. I wonder what the Ministry of Agriculture will do now with the problem of buying in Neretva, do they have any authority? Whether the Ministry of Agriculture will report the buyer to the Competition Protection Agency. And they can, so there can be an anonymous application even though the Ministry claims they will do something, if this is a model for application, then I expect the ministry to make a hasty application against those who have been found not to secure the purchase at fair prices, on fair terms and thus endanger domestic Croatian production. What's gonna happen to tomatoes? At present, as much as we read in the media, which convey information, there are in the trade chains, primarily from Macedonia, as the season moves away, it is likely that these supplies will be spent and then the cheap one will come. Who's gonna make a deal on these producers, at those low prices? Will this low price also be a problem for the Competition Protection Agency, especially if no one reports it? We are talking about the problem of the real influence of the buyer, of the trade chains, of which manufacturers are afraid, of which producers are not partners and because of this fear do not dare to report and thus actually make it impossible for your agency to work. If we're not going to accept that fact, then by voting to amend this statute, we're actually just formally confirming the law, but in reality, there's no effect. I, and this way, appeal, to initiate a hasty amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices, to include an inspection of the Ministry of Economy, to implement measures more quickly, more actively, on the ground, more quickly, because here recently we have not even heard measures relating to the quality of these products. He's silenced everything, whether we have a perfect condition, or we're going to determine as well as what the producers are complaining about, that it's still absolutely nothing. And therefore, President-in-Office of the Council, you need to clearly and in your presentation, which you are entitled to during this debate, to say in what way you consider that from your practice, which are the models, which would be the best, the most efficient, that you can act and be effective, that it does not happen in the end that someone calls the Competition Protection Agency, which can certainly not only determine irregularities but also prevent them from happening further. And it is evident that this statistics is two-thirds of the contracts only extended where one-third is not, but that there are legitimate doubts about irregularity. And it looks like either we Parliamentarians go in a moment to ask the manufacturers, look for those who failed to make the deal, and then we'll file applications. Whether and then we will have the consideration that it is known as Boža Petrova, which was reported by Mr Todorovic where the result of the settlement now says that he was management, that the entire property of Agrokor no longer has reason to be owned by the Todoric family. Don't call us names if we're going to run it, because I think the Ministry must be who it is first, that those who need to defend the interests of peasants, so here we now had a law relating to the Croatian agricultural chamber that they too need to collect data come forward, that we don't expect it to be the sole responsibility of any agricultural producer. In this way and in six months, we will have the same defeating results. Most of the contracts have not been made, most of the products on the shelves are from the introduction, and the prices have not increased and I wonder if for two years when an impact assessment of this regulation is done which does not indicate whether the whole debate, the whole law-making initiative, will show real effects on the development of Croatian agricultural production and food supply of Croatian consumers will be justified. I call on the Secretary of State and the President of the Council not to wait six months as we are for the time being, but to have, in the next time during the summer, a real effective measure to present these measures to the public, that all those who are trying to make irregularities be prevented from being publicly called and already made order. We will support the amendments to the statutes whether they as such should occur and the law are defined. However, the key objection is that the law was not consummated, it was not implemented in the spirit of what was presented to the parliamentary representatives, which was presented to the Croatian public, which was presented to Croatian agricultural producers and that is the responsibility of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87183	Thank you. There's no replica, so we're going to another debate. The HDZ representative club can't even be a replica because they are clubs, so let's go to another debate, dear colleague Josip Križanić, on behalf of the HDZ Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87184	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable President of the Council of the Agency with an associate. We have before us amendments and additions to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency to be confirmed by this Assembly. I will say a few words before, which is why it is important and why the Competition Protection Agency should be more active in the first place. So in recent years, the Croatian food market has become part of the single European market with the beginning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and by entering the EU, trends and integration of large trade chains of foreign owners are becoming even more pronounced. The unscrupulous fight for profit and profit leads to a situation for such chains to reach various ways of unfair game in the food supply chain in order to make fast profits. By adopting the eu directive, Croatia becomes a European market and is not subject to any border control. This means, for example, that the introduction or import of meat from the EU is not subject to any inspection from the processing border to the finished sausage or cartilage product, unlike domestic production subject to continued inspection of the slaughterhouse. Furthermore, it is very clear that exactly food products are a bait that traders serve in their actions and attract customers. These products bring down trade chains below the manufacturer’s price and thus deliberately enter the red to attract the buyer, and other high margin products that the buyer fills the basket with then balance the loss and make a profit. This practice is inadmissible because it puts pressure on suppliers of primary production and food industry. We have, for example, the import of Czech chickens by 15 kuna is on our shelves, and then the domestic brands raise the price, so the domestic product is then double unacceptable to the customer. Furthermore, there are numerous examples on the Croatian market of the entire food chain, especially in the case of permanent milk, chicken meat, pig meat or other food products where traders form a retail price and at no cost of selling, and thus permanently pressures the supplier. All EU member states are protecting their own agricultural production with hidden or public subsidies, so the task of us, the representatives, the Croatian Government and the Competition Protection Agency, is to take all the necessary measures and actions to try to balance at least some balance between small processor suppliers on the one hand and large chains on the other. And here I would like to say very clearly that all EU member states, or 20 out of 28, have already introduced a variety of regulations and mechanisms to resolve unfair commercial practices. And now we come to the agency, so the protection of competition is the jurisdiction of the Competition Protection Agency, which acts ex post. So the agency in this sense is not a regulator like HERA, but an executive body. It shall be responsible for the implementation of the rules for the application of the Competition Protection Act, for establishing and imposing penalties which are good, so it shall not impose infringing or accusing proposals, but shall have the mandate to impose penalties in the first degree. The penalties prescribed and the penalties prescribed for the perpetrator are extremely high with the aim of rejuvenating and putting the participants in balance on food supply, hence the weaker buyer and the stronger trader, with mandatory excuses and I have always been in favour of not being legally cut off as long as possible. So here's a chance to correct a mistake, if that's possible. So I'm not necessary for repression. However, unfair commercial practice and the issue of sales below the producer price has been characterised as an extremely serious injury and a criminal measure has been imposed for that infringement of the law with a maximum penalty amount of up to 5 million kuna for a legal person, i.e. 2 and a half million kuna for a natural person. The Agency is therefore authorised to employ 6 employees and budgets for a million and 360 kuna. Since the law on unfair commercial practice was passed on November 17th. the year according to which the agency had a obligation to adapt its statutes within 6 months. Since the law was published on 29.11. and with the eighth day of entry into force with a delay of action until 31.3. this year, I am also very interested in why these several articles of the statutes, you yourself said that the articles of technical nature could not be adjusted in those 4 or 5 months, and not from 1.4. since the law came into force, that is, since the law was in force, and that you would be... I don't get it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would like to note that you told me that all the works were made, that these six employees were employed and that the funds were provided and the equipment was provided for them. Why was the first draft of the statute only found on 29.3. The second was sent on 23.4. So that's where we've already been late since the implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Act. So it's a couple of articles of correction. You're telling me you don't have any applications, I personally called the agency from this pay phone to respond to frequent and repeated commercials on TV related to the enormous actions of pigmeat by 18 kuna doors. We're all serious people here, we're all sitting here and we know it's not possible, such a price just isn't possible. Do you need an application for that? I don't know why it would take you to report that you go out on the spot and take action without too much thought. Everyone in their right mind knows that this price is far below the manufacturer's price, far below the manufacturer's price, and the cost of selling that I don't even speak. Later I showed you this picture, it was from two weeks ago where the big surprise of the buyer in a shopping chain in Pula was the dung. So I thought it was an appeal for action and I'm the cause of dumping prices, I'm the cause of dumping prices, what kind of meat it is and what kind of meat it comes in after Croatian citizens buy it. Then I asked you who you're protecting and who you work for? If it's the cause of the Statute, why haven't you changed it? Why are we supposed to be three months now... As regards the Statute itself, the Statute is okay, it is good, mainly concerns changes to the adaptations to the provisions of the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices, among other things the responsibility of the Agency for the Implementation of this Law is determined, new administrative professional transactions relating to the Law on Unfair Commercial Practices are further established, the submission of the Agency's report to this Assembly as well as the extension of the tasks of the President of the Council of the Agency and the establishment of a new sector for the prohibition of unfair commercial practices with a description of the same business as the additions to the obligation to publish the solution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we got the information through the documents, and so did you here that we hired new employees and that we bought the necessary equipment. So you just need to start working. The HDZ club will accept this statute that was scheduled to be carried out three months ago. And we expect an immediate implementation of the same. We expect, as the entire Croatian public expects, that this agency is beginning to act lightningly, told colleagues before me about the situation that is now in the meat market, I was talking two weeks ago about entering pigs at 7 kuna from Hungary because they are protecting themselves from African swine fever, and the Agency for the Protection of the Competition at the price of 18 kuna, the meat is not responding, and the pepper and salad cost 30 so I ask you if it should be explained to anyone because it is a dumping price? It must not happen that for commercially small money buys food that should be taken care of in the cafeteria, then it is the most expensive food far away. Since we have asked for an impact assessment in lawmaking, and for the sake of enormous public interest, be sure that we will closely monitor the effects of the implementation of this law and, please, I appeal to you that now that we adopt this Statute, that we are going into action without it, I do not see any reason why you need to report it, if you see a television application or if a parliamentary representative reports you for this speaker in front of the complete Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87185	No replicas like the first time. So now we're going to an individual debate where there will certainly be a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87186	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and the representative of the Competition Protection Agency. So here's a colleague they said on behalf of the club, so the key problem is who the agency is and what the agency is protecting. Her intention should be to change... The protection means that we do not have an unfair commercial practice that has worked so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, however, the purpose of this agency is at all because... We're talking about agriculture, our colleagues were talking, then the question of how it worked on our market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It worked as an example that most of the incentives in agriculture, most of the money went to certain persons, specifically targeted persons, and it worked that way. Even the Croatian National Bank gave 10 billion kunas, i.e. He used Agrokor at one point without covering 10 billion kuna, no one reacted but everyone knew. So talk about this agency if it makes any sense at all. Then maybe it makes a paper sense. And what's realistic, here we see now in the case of Neretva down farmers and so it is in Slavonia, so we have food that is imported, which is poor quality, we don't have protected domestic producers example in some countries there, we and the close possibility that by law I don't know which way they did it but the fact that there is a possibility of protecting domestic products, that 50%, an example of 50% in trade chains, on shelves, with large suppliers being 50% domestic products. We have to pursue these goals otherwise we won't have any more agriculture and we'll have nothing more to control. We'll have bad food that's more expensive from other countries, which is more expensive than in the countries of origin that's worse quality, the only celephane is the same, the package is the same, it's like in other countries and the lower quality. So, just looking at this case, I repeat another farmer in the Neretva Valley, it's similar throughout the area is essentially a reflection of the current policy towards domestic farmers, when we talk about agriculture. That's what we're witnessing, and this photo that my colleague told me before witnessed what we're importing and selling on the shelves. So we absolutely don't control these processes anymore, we shrimp food, we import junk and sell on our shelves and automatically destroy domestic producers, mainly farmers. And there is now a basic problem and it is a failure to find Croatian institutions in this part where the shrimp products are on our shelves and it also causes an increase in various diseases, destruction and the destruction of domestic agriculture. The competition in Croatia was brought to the bottom, this is what we witness at Agrokor, that small farmers, producers leave Croatia, we see that the empty Slavonia and only because it was, meaning disrespect in the purchase of the contract, the obligations of contracts they have towards small suppliers to small producers, medium manufacturers. And that's the key problem. We have a problem today that people, farmers will have to... Pomidores, peppers and at the same time from Hungary, Podravka e.g. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The sub-level imports and re-promaterials and for vegetarians, peppers, carrots, imports from Hungary. What are the reasons? So the reasons are within the whole system which means it's harmful for the Ministry of Agriculture, this agency, it has a good statute, it's small changes, it's well described in the law, it's worth nothing, because the fact is that when we see the situation in agriculture and when we analyze it, we see mainly in agriculture, but in other branches, we see that this agency is the purpose itself, that agriculture, that the ministries are the purposes themselves, and that the only one I don't even know what the meaning of these agencies, the statutes, which we praise are good at, when we simply witness that neither we care about those statutes, nor who cares about the legislation, nor is a protected domestic producer nor is on the market competitive. I'm sorry about that, and here I see the minister behind the pillar, and I'd like the minister to talk about this, too, but obviously there's more to be done there. Once again, I don't know if we've heard noon for domestic production. The fact that the ransom and the contracts we have on the unfair commercial practice of bans, simply agriculture is extinct. What's your role I don't know, what you've taken, how much you've protected, who you're protecting, probably the import lobbys you're protecting because we don't see any movement here. I'd like you to read about it, we can change the statutes, we can do what we want but the fact is that two thirds of Croatia is empty, the fact that we're increasing our milk imports, 81% compared to last year, even predict that we won't have any milk on the shelves of Croatia's domestic milk at all. Imports of dairy products, cheese and other products are increasing. So we simply don't see solutions at this point except that we have agencies, ministry agencies. So when we discussed last week, I've always had the damages of savages, the Hunting Law how to charge farmers the damage and in what way and okay, but you're not, is that there's only game damage, we're more pests in the ministries that suit import lobbys, agencies, what are the results of these agencies? That we don't have any agriculture at all, that we only have imports, I don't see at all when I'm talking about agriculture, but also other branches. At this point I'm talking about the Neretva Valley and the problem of people who will have to plow their peppers, watermelons, melons, no solutions, suppliers don't meet contracts to small producers. That's the problem, that's the key problem. What are you serving? Apart from having a lip statute you've now given it to change, what have you protected besides import lobbys? Who are you protecting? Because you protect domestic producers or protect import lobbys? So if you buy meat at the grocery store, 12 kunas of pork, then when you cut it, we saw some liquids or who knows what comes out of that meat, none has said a word. Who's controlling it? So is there a system in this country, is there even a state like a machine? It may appear that under these lights there is, but apparently there is no one in the field, two-thirds of Croatia are empty because the state is not working, not protecting in this case the Competition Agency does not protect what the tribune protect, and that is domestic producers, in fact to be fair, but in us it is not even fair. It's only for import lobbys. Because I can't say that the cheaper Vegeta produced in Croatia as a brand is cheaper in BiH than in Croatia. Who's going to explain all this? No one can explain it alive. Why are we importing so many products? Who controls it, what products, what meat, what is the pork of the GMO soy that feeds? And our peasants have to move and run. And the black pig on the market would be wanted, the Chinese would, they could place it from the Serbian border throughout Croatia to the Montenegrin border in 4 rows as much as the Chinese would import it. Why? It's only because you're not protecting the domestic manufacturer, you're protecting the import lobby, and you're doing it. Don't do anything anymore. And your statute may be much better, but it doesn't mean anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87187	Thank you, too. You've earned only one replica, this is my colleague Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87188	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, you've talked a lot about import lobbies, shrimp goods that threaten our health and so on. By listening to you on the side, they'd say no one's healthy in this country because we're all buying that shrimp stuff. I would disagree just as much because I think we have good inspection services, rigorous, and that the failures have and that they happen and we certainly need to be even more careful when importing various products. But now a personal question, did you ever buy Milka chocolate? Could your wife have chosen a cheaper strawberry, apple, melon, or anything like that when she came to the mall? Unfortunately for me who should be an example, I'm trying to control myself, I have to tell you that I'm not ideal either, that I'm trying to control myself, but I'd always rather buy Krass's chocolate than Milka chocolate thinking about our domestic producers. So here's a message for all of us here that at least the ones we have, I'm not going to say solid, I'm going to say very good receipts to be an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87189	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87190	Right from the end, let's buy some homework. Here I agree absolutely with you, and I think that the domestic product is more quality, it's my personal attitude and I try and make it for my family, as much as I can eat in the country as I can and also buy from the people I know. That's where I agree 100%. And in this part of the part that you said was working inspections, ask your colleagues on behalf of the club who spoke, let them show you this photo of who is controlling and what the services are doing. The fact is, it's good for import lobbys. We're pig-eating, dairy production, huge money is invested in it. We import goods that are food of GMOs that feed on soy shotguns across the Hungarian border, I don't know the Serbians who do, and we destroy our pigs. So the rest of the watermelon, look at the melon, very few Croatian products, will be Croatian, in Neretva manufacturers will have to take it out, and we are importing foreign products that are lower quality, and we have a tourist season.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87191	Thank you. We are going to another individual debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87192	Thank you, Mr. President, and I welcome the present representatives of the Ministry and the Competition Protection Agency. Today we are discussing the statutes of the Competition Protection Agency for the reason that it gets the authority to implement the law on unfair commercial practices. In Croatia, unfair trade practices are very widespread. Yesterday, the party Change Croatia held a press conference on the abuse and manipulation of the brand of Croatian products. Some media reported a few days ago that certain trade chains buy a ton of domestic pork, to this they add 9 tons of imported pork from God knows where and then let it go for sale and finely in the shelf says Croatian product. Look, there's no worse way to endanger domestic production and quality. Yesterday we asked the government to investigate this abuse of brand Croatian product, to punish those who abuse such an elaborate brand, and if this government is unable to protect the citizens, then let it resign or call early elections. I warned from this place a year, half a year ago, about importing rotten meat, meat that's been standing for months, maybe years from Brazil, that's what I first published here on behalf of when I was talking. No one after that reported to the public what was going on. So what are the gentlemen of the inspection? This one, and especially the past governments, they destroyed the mobile labs that were in small vehicles, they're gone. Therefore, only Croats can sell anything, and then we are surprised and then the media is disgusted that in the growth of cancers and other diseases that we haven't had in years or decades. It is clear that there are good laws in this country, but they are not implemented. Why? Because it's a corrupt system, about clientelism, don't do this, let go of that, it's about smugglers who import anything so you have imports of meat that meat is the most expensive thing there to burn, they'll take care of it for a reason just to drive that they don't have any costs. Now let me get back to this key question. When we talk about a competition competition, the Competition Protection Agency, I think it would be fairer to call it a competition protection agency, as well as a law to call it a law on protection against competition. Who? Those who have established themselves on the market that have taken up monopolous or oligopoly positions and do not allow new entities to compete, good producers to come to the market. I'll take an example from Switzerland, there's a law such that local producers say you have a sales chain of eggs of no idea where from another country and let's say ten eggs cost two francs, next to those eggs must be an offer from local producers and the same eggs cost four francs, so double that. The merchant won't tell the local producer there I can't take it you're too expensive, let the buyer decide what's acceptable to him, which is expensive and what he buys. And the code for us is precisely the reason why we refuse our small producers of quality so they can't offer their goods. Now to count what this is all about, there is a question of what it means to change your statute and how effective you will be in preventing these unfair commercial practices. What unfair commercial practices, to remind you on behalf of the party Change Croatia I asked for here half a year ago when the law on unfair commercial practices was proposed, I proposed several amendments which, unfortunately, you ruling did not want to accept, and what was this about. Every time a trade chain contracts a new purchase of the same product, it re-negotiates a new purchase price with a 30-day notice. And what's going on here? So every time he reprints the supplier's homework down, it means he lowers the price, he simply drinks his blood, and this one can no longer endure and simply the largest number of declines. Correct this unfair commercial practice, let the procurement contracts with suppliers be concluded for a year at least, that I don't speak for any more. What is the other problem in protecting the prevention of unfair commercial practices? It's so-called. the discriminatory margin. What are the trade chains doing? They simply copied our market, the Konzum remained, and because of this affair Agrokor are now taking over it obviously under their dominant Russian banks, the question of what policy will be now, whether Croatian products will at all have access to the only "Croatian" distribution channel. When it comes to the distribution margin, the thing is about this kind of thing, the domestic sales producer in the Riesling shopping chain and he imports the same Riesling somewhere from the world at a very low price and, of course, its margin is far higher. He calls a domestic producer and tells him to listen to a friend, so look how much there's a margin here, see what your price is. So, he printed it that way. What am I saying? This law and your institution only has a meaning of existence if it only makes sense if you make a clear statement and a legal provision is made that the trade chain must predetermin the margin for certain products or groups of products, but rather than create a margin to which and thus destroys competition. What is the third problem regarding unfair poisoning practices? This is the position of the product on the shelf. In order for citizens to understand better what I'm talking about, you have to introduce practice, please, change the law, supplement it, if it's about acidic pickles in the trade chain, then acidic pickles of all producers must be in the same place, and not one in the corner, the other on the top of this one, it means that not to favour individual producers. In this sense, and what is most important in the whole story, it must be forced to force large trade chains especially those engaged in the sale of food to open their shelves, their premises to small local producers. Someone's going to say so there's nothing to impose on anyone, so this is a market economy, and I'm telling you that we don't have markets, this market is busy in every segment and they're the biggest ones who set the rules of the game and then they call it a market. Therefore, this is far from the market, here the rules of the game are not clearly defined and this law which has recently been adopted on unfair commercial practices will not achieve expected results, remember what I say and that citizens hear, will not achieve the expected results because you deliberately left out these three, four recommendations that the party has proposed which are good, which protects domestic producers especially small, but obviously you care about large capital, you protect their interests. In that sense, I appeal to it and don't wait, you see someone here said it takes six months. Wait for it to come into effect. So when this exactly period of fruit production, vegetables, it goes by again, domestic producers, etc. And now to conclude in all this, I am not surprised why these phenomena occur, because the system is defined as such, this kind of capitalism that is in Croatia, it is the worst kind of capitalism, which pushes those small producers, does not protect consumers, which is a health threat, so only large capital is protected. The Party We change Croatia, it is about to fight it, for small manufacturers, OPGs, for healthy food, and against the poisoning of the population and imports of goods, and especially food of poor quality, not to say trash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87193	We've got three replicas, first mate Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87194	Comrade Lovrinović, you're absolutely right, I'll give you an example of what happened in my neighborhood, with meat production. Sinj was known as the town of meat production, there were many butchers, however, there were trade chains and suddenly lamb 10 kn kg, frozen from New Zealand, frozen lamb 10 kn kg, and in production it was supposed to be domestic 10 euros, it should be that our peasant produces to be evaporative to him. At that moment, all the people of course went shopping, who had no money, that frozen lamb, which was probably supposed to be burned in New Zealand, because the transport from New Zealand, as much as the cost couldn't be, that it got. So the target was where the garbage was imported, targeted, because the production was destroyed. Now they have a monopoly, no more meat, we have to import garbage, and that's the key problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87195	My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87196	Dear counterpart Bulj, health protection comes first, so Croatian health policy must start from the field, from the farm, from the supply of food. The moment the Agency for the Protection of the Competition, the Ministry of Health, the inspections, the application for the first time, the one who threatens health and ends up in prison, then I will begin to believe, like all other citizens in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87197	Second replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87198	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleague Lovrinović, completely, can agree with a lot of things, which you brought out here in the Parliament, but, Professor, we need to know that everything is a process. We know that this country came into anarchy after the war, that it did whatever it wanted, that agriculture was destroyed, that it was pretending to be, that some were rising like Agrokor, they were rising. You saw for yourself how much he owed, finally, here, we have a deal, which I think is real, what we've been doing, that's what we see, so I don't think this government is really guilty of, about everything that's been going on through this process. And this meat that tells fellow Bull, of course, is to be prescribed by law, six months. that meat can be introduced. Whoever imports it older, it is known what punishments should be followed, but we have laws, we have regulations, and we do not do what we should do. Therefore, I believe that we are in one process and political and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87199	Thank you. Let's move on, third replica, dear colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87200	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Lovrinović, you spoke of Switzerland, so-called the original sale. We have in the Public Procurement Act, a built-in amendment on the so-called Short supply chains. And that's a great story, it's just a question of which of us is using it and why and who is defending us, that our schools, hospitals, military and police, our state institutions, are not using that law, where not the main point is the lowest price, but that within 24 hours of the slaughter, 24 hours of the reading, can be used by that amendment. On the other hand, you talked about the abuse of brand Croatian product, 1 kg versus 10 kg. We are not prevented from imposing standards on all trade chains, therefore, that we have increased inspection supervision, especially where irregularities are identified, we can strengthen it five times, but in all chains the same, there is no discrimination, and all in order to protect people's health. So we have good laws, we just have to enforce them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87201	Thank you, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87202	Your honorary colleague, your way of speaking, has been giving me statements since before, when I listened, you're an honest man, but you're on the wrong page. Don't blame me for what I say. Well, what you're doing, your party is in power and I find it really hard for you to listen. 'Cause you're talking right, wondering what's going on, why it's not being played. This should all be driven to finally get off the stage what bothers you, this political swim and that Croatia finally sails in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87203	For the final address, the president of the competition council, the respected Mladen Cerovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87204	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'll just say a few words briefly. First of all, it was one of the questions, why it was waiting with the statute, the statute, first of all, the law, full application of the law, began from 1.4.The law came into force in the meantime.12.The agency did not have employees working on unfair commercial practices, however, the agency held in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, 6 workshops in the 6 largest Croatian cities, where it was collected on field issues and more. There have been more questions, which are directly addressed to the agency or the Ministry of Agriculture. There were over 250 agencies processed and published on their website, there are also on their website, there is also a Ministry of Agriculture. There's been a competition to hire people, a competition to last, people to apply, they can't leave their jobs when they remember, but they have to respect some legal deadlines or deadlines signed by their contracts. The third thing, the statute was sent to the Croatian Parliament at the end of the 3rd month, was returned to the Agency soon due to some minor nomotechnical errors, but what happened next I don't know. I had a Legislative Committee before the plenary session today. So if it is, it's been two months since the 4th month. The Committee on Economy was before that. But in the meantime, the agency is not that it didn't work, absolutely not. The agency requested, so as soon as this, at the end of the 4th month, that sector was finally teamed up, it was requested from 31 merchants, it was also published on our web site, of the 31st trade chain, the largest trade chains were requested data on their suppliers of older ones, who had previously, which they now have, were made comparisons. During that period until 3 months, the law was not in force, so contracts that existed were applied. Now they're collected, 27 chains have sent their answers, they've been analysed and that analysis has been temporarily published. The consummation was not requested for that reason because it is located in one, temporarily located in one specific legal regime. The Agency will now, in the next step, request 10 or 20 contracts from these trade chains in view of the size of suppliers that have to be seen whether these contracts are in line with the Law on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, that is the first thing. As far as the changes are concerned, any amendments to the law are not a competent agency. Dear Representative Lovrinović certainly knows that the Law, the laws proposed by the government, and here the expert holder was the Ministry of Agriculture. So if there are any objections to the law, the Agency is just an implementing body. In addition, the final provisions of the law state that the Ministry of Agriculture will monitor the application of the law over 2 years and that it will be seen what needs to be changed. So you can't ask the agency to change the law, nor can she bring it. What is wrong with him is not or what could be better done is neither the credit nor the fault of the agency. All these questions about the quality of food, meat, of course, it's not about the agency. Also, the protection of domestic producers and their competitiveness are not subject to this law, they themselves must become competitive. Dear Representative Lovrinovic, a Swiss example, Switzerland is not an EU member and has specific regulations yet. And I think that would be all, and besides that, in case you have any knowledge that some chain sells meat or any food or agricultural product below the purchase price, I would ask you to contact the agency. Because six people can't track Parliament's sessions to see if anyone's waving a picture of rotten meat. Thank you very much. Come to the agency, we'll be happy to see you, help us. In addition, this law was about to remove that fear factor from suppliers, if it is not achieved that they continue to be afraid then the purpose of the law will not be achieved, so suppliers must also fight for their rights. They can also report it anonymously. As far as inspections are concerned, of course the inspection, I say, was said that it would be better for them to do so, obviously it's about competent people, when they're competent, which I don't doubt. They, of course, if they find any contract or anything that could be a potential violation of the law on unfair commercial practices, let them report it to the Agency, we will process it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87205	We have two replicas, the first colleague is Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87206	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Cerovac, I found it difficult to listen to the inability of your Agency for Protection against Competition. You're asking us to if someone finds out someone's selling something below the price to help you. I know you don't have enough, it's not an accident, they gave it to the DORH, as a state audit, so the key institutions of this country don't have enough meanings or money to work precisely because they can't control and prevent what's wrong with this society. Therefore, the matter is quite clear. However, the Agency for Protection against Competition has never rejected Mr. Todorovic when he was spreading, please deny if I am wrong. So, what was the protection of the competition? And I'm saying, you'd better take off and write down that it's a competition protection agency or change your role and you're better funded and set up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87207	Thank you. Comrade Križanić, it is your turn now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87208	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Cerovac, I know about your workshops that you held throughout Croatia, I took part in them and they should have been preventive and they were and it was good that we maintained them. And I know the law had a delay until 31.03, and that's what I said. So at 1.4, we were supposed to be operational. That's all I was talking about, there was plenty of time for the statute to be adjusted by 31.03 and for us to be operational with 1.4, and for these three months to be employed by employees and to buy equipment. When you're talking about protecting domestic production that it's not a job or an ingenuity of this law. No, it's not. But we all know very well that you are the Croatian agency and I am the Croatian representative. And I care about the interests of Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87209	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87210	Dear Representative, I know that we are a Croatian agency but Croatian agencies should act in Croatia, the bodies of the institutions should act under Croatian laws and we will do so. I would not want to be a patriot in such a way as to end up in a Croatian prison because I misappropriate the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87211	This is what we came to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Amendments and additions to the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Confirmation. The applicant is the Competition Protection Agency, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the amendment and addition of the Statute of the Competition Protection Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 79 for, 7 abstentions and 4 against the decision on confirmation proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87214	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of you or in front of all of us, the Law on e-insects in public procurement, so that the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has prepared a proposal for the Law on e-insects in public procurement, which is transposed in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia by Directive No 55 of 2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 16 April, which has arranged for the electronic issue of public procurement accounts. The draft law in question is fully in line with national laws and rules governing the area, issuing and exchange of paper invoices and invoices in electronic form, etc. e-accounts in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the law in question is in line with the VAT Act, the Regulation on Value Added Taxation, the Accounting Act, the Law on Electronic Correction, the Law implementing Regulation No 910 of 2014, the Law on electronic trade. This law is also one of the measures of the national programme for the reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the main objective of the measures and the law is 100% issue and receive e-accounts in public procurement processes. What is practically introduced by this law? This law introduces the obligation to receive e-income in public procurement procedures from 1. 12. In 2018, the obligation to issue e-indemnity is in public procurement procedures of 1. Seven. 2019. What are the essential and key advantages or benefits of this law? In electronic invoice procedures, the advantage for e-accounters is reduced administrative costs of preparation, printing and billing, the cost of mailing is removed, the account is delivered in a much shorter time and stored in a secure and controlled electronic archive. The benefits for e-account recipients are the rate of receipt and processing of accounts, which minimises the possibility of human error, ensures faster payment and high degree of automation of the process, exchanges of the e-accounts concerned. The cost of processing e-accounts will also be significantly reduced compared to the cost of processing the traditional paper account. Additional, more sensitive savings will be achieved by digitising the business process from procurement to delivery, shorter deadlines for the processing of accounts and by speeding up the payment methodology. The e-account will also enable better management of financial operations, will affect the productivity of work and will ensure full transparency of fiscal impact in the public procurement process. Using e-accounts in business is important for a number of reasons. The EU is counting on the full introduction of an e-account to save nearly 423 billion euros and the estimated savings from the introduction of an electronic account ranging from between 7 and 20 euros per account of which this is the most important, 80% of the savings are made by the buyer and 20% by the seller. According to estimates for the Republic of Croatia through the establishment of an overall process of electronic procurement, it is possible to achieve a maximum savings effect between 6 and 13% of the total volume of public procurement, which can ultimately be savings at around 2.6 billion kuna. In fact, the total value of public procurement in 2016 was almost 45 billion kuna and the total value of the small purchase recorded, which is also covered by this law, is 10.2 billion kuna and 22.9% of the total volume of public procurement. The law will cover a larger volume of obligation to issue e-accounts since the area of change has expanded the purchase processes of small value or less than 200 000 kuna for the purchase of goods and services and for the purchase of works below 500 000 kuna. In the context of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts' efforts to disband entrepreneurs, i.e. the overall economy from unnecessary administrative burdens and as part of the 2018 action plan and perspectives, and we will introduce the same methodology and action plan for 2019, I feel it is necessary to stress that the application of this law will reduce the costs of the business sector. As regards the standard that this law will be implemented in EU Member States, there are currently several global, national and regional standards for the electrical issue of invoices that are not interoperable. Such incompatible legal and technical requirements regarding electronic accounts have often been an obstacle to economic operators and prevented them from entering a new market. Through this legislative proposal, barriers to cross-border trade will be reduced to a minimum possible level. The European electronic account norm does not enter into ways to exchange accounts or prescribe methods and procedures for the same, but only gives guidance on the application of possible models. At this point, the subject of interest are three concerned models of which we will allow economic operators to choose one of them themselves. Tax supervision will be carried out by authorised representatives of the Ministry of Finance, so tax administrations, while issuers and recipients and their information intermediaries will be responsible for the content of e-accounts and compliance with European standards in order to finance the model of e-account exchange and what will ultimately be the fiscal impact. In order to allow for the exchange of accounts at national and local level, it is necessary to provide transport infrastructure in the form of a central platform for communication and interconnectional, information exchange of accounts in which information intermediaries are introduced, requiring significant investments and major technological efforts and for the implementation of this law the necessary provision of funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia at 4 million kuna per year, and the funds to be continuously provided at the positions of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. The relevant platform will enable communication and interaction between public contracting authorities, sectoral contracting authorities and suppliers, all those economic operators interested in the electronic procurement process and all information intermediaries we appreciate to be more than 12 and a half million at the annual level of such interconnections. The central account exchange platform has already been established by the financial agency since mid-2016. In particular, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the receipt of structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents for state administration bodies, i.e. the budgetary beneficiaries of the state budget, established the obligation to receive an account for state administration bodies, i.e. the beneficiaries of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia since February 2016. In point 5 of the decision in question, FINA was designated as an information intermediary for state administration bodies, i.e. budgetary users, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of the cited decision, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts and the Financial Agency, they have concluded a contract and for the provision of services under that contract the price paid in the amount of 968 000 kuna of which 499 500 kuna for the establishment of the platform at the annual level and maintenance of the platform in question, namely the licensing of hardware, software and the need for a man of a total amount of 469 000 kuna. The relevant platform so far intended to replace accounts between the central authorities of the state administration and suppliers should also be extended to public contracting authorities, so all of this defines the law in question, to sectoral suppliers and suppliers, therefore economic operators and all information intermediaries. Therefore, the annual cost of developing a central account exchange platform of 4 million kuna refers to the costs of expanding the platform and the annual costs of continuous operational management and maintenance of the system in question. Who, in fact, based on previous decisions and within this law has the role of a central information mediator? By subject decisions, and also by this law, the Republic of Croatia has decided by this Law on State Information Infrastructure and the Regulation on organisational and technical standards for the integration of state information infrastructure... its IT services and defined the shared service providers of which there are 4 today. It's Apis, Finna, Carnet and AKD. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The definition of FINA as an information intermediary for certain contracting authorities in a concrete draft of the bill therefore finds its basis in that Law on State and Information Infrastructure, the Regulation on organisational and technical standards for the integration of state information infrastructure and the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision on the adoption of structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents for state administration bodies, i.e. budgetary users from 2015. Based on those rules, the shared service for the monitoring of the business process of receipt of an account and information intermediation for the authorities of the state administration, i.e. the budgetary users of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, has been provided by FIN since February 2016. The relevant central system, therefore the platform, was established in 2016 by FINA, through which electronic accounts are received by the central authorities of the state administration, but also by other public bodies such as units of local, regional and regional self-government. This draft bill, based on positive experience in implementing that decision and the role of FINA as a provider of shared services, only extends the role of FINA as an information intermediary for certain contracting authorities. This means that all other contracting authorities, hence local and regional self-government units and related companies, sectoral contracting authorities and economic operators and suppliers may choose any information intermediary present on the market today. What you can choose between are FINA, my account, Omnizon, Croatian Telecom, Mstart and Croatian Post Office. How is and why the selected model of the central account exchange platform? The current situation on the market of information intermediaries is such that for years only a few information intermediaries who do not have publicly published user registers e account, so all except FINA, and their account registers are in any way connected, the user information exchange protocols are not standardised and there are no mechanisms that would allow the use of the distributed user register. There is also no central register in which all information intermediaries would be obliged to enroll their users, which is a good practice of other Member States and based on the application of the e-account, in the countries of our environment in an important... As a consequence, we have an unsettled market for information intermediaries, the closure of information media service providers and closed registers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are situations where some intermediaries cannot be sent accounts of their own users, because they have no interconnections, they do not already have predetermined interconnections between information intermediaries. Also in contact with companies, especially small ones, this ministry has received complaints that certain large companies and individual information intermediaries are conditionaling on the engagement of a certain information intermediary, which is unacceptable and disrupts the game market. Also, precisely the fact that this market is unregulated due to the lack of a central user register, the academic community has been warned for years, especially the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing. It is therefore concluded that the central platform, for the exchange of e-accounts in the Republic of Croatia, is necessary, since this perspective market has not spread for years, because of its closure, irregularities and the non-connection of information intermediaries, and we believe that the solution has been delayed through this bill is optimal. The model in question will also enable a functional eco-system, which will generate jobs, not only for information intermediaries, but also for system integraters and companies that participate in the development of the overall process. We have also been announced the entry of new information intermediaries, with innovative solutions for the exchange and management of e-accounts, on this market, the main trigger of which was precisely the proposal for this legal solution. Finally, as a conclusion, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts has made continuous efforts to increase the use of electronic accounts in the state and public administration, and to the economic sector since 2012 and to carry out pilot e-account exchange projects, together with public administration, economic operators and the scientific community. As CEF telecom coordinator and coordinator of Croatian project consortiums, we have been implementing instruments for connecting Europe with the topic of e-accounts since 2015. The project's objectives, therefore, amounting to around 9.7 million kuna, are precisely to encourage the use of a structured electronic account, by public administration and economic operators, national and cross-border. In addition, we have strong support from the European Commission, for the provision of technical and operational preconditions, public integration authorities with the central platform for the issue of e-accounts. The Parliamentary Committee on Legislatives and Economy, held on 14.6.2018, unanimously supported and adopted this draft law by referring to the necessary technical amendment of the draft law, which we have also brought together with the Committee in question. On the basis of this above, we consider this bill an optimal solution for the establishment of a legal and technical framework, the exchange of e-accounts in the Republic of Croatia, and our wish is that through this law and further projects, we achieve the goal set by the European Commission in the Digital Agenda for 2020, which is that by 2020, the Republic of Croatia will be a Member State in which the dominant way of issuing an account will be precisely electronic issue, structured accounts, with all its advantages, savings and necessary transparency. One information that has been in favour of the efforts of all governments since 2010, 2011 and all governments since 2012 and to this day has just been received, therefore, on 19 June 2018, the Institute for the Development of Business Management from Louisiana, whose partner is the National Competitiveness Council, published the results of the report. The global digital competitiveness scale, for 2018, therefore, with the fact that we are on a scale, that this year we have recorded a slightly weaker place on the scales and markers of valorisation of due business, that we have also fallen on the competitiveness scale for several places, finally one good and commendable information. So, the 2018 digital competitiveness chart. Croatia, positioned 44th place and which is 4th place better than in the same period last year. So overall efforts to reduce the administrative barriers through electronic business, and in this law and issue, respectively, to reduce the administrative barriers and increase the flexibility and efficiency of both private and public sectors, we consider this solution optimally and we ask this High House for its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87215	Thank you, Mr. Darko Horvat, Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, for his exposure, we have one replica, colleague Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87216	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I have listened carefully and would say good for this step forward in the development of e-Croatia, clearly this is just the beginning. I believe that all together, and I'm also talking about local self-government units trying to establish this system, it would be my question, if only an explanation. So after public procurement, when we choose the most favourable bidder, then the bills that come out of the bidder, into that system, are just coming in. Is there going to need a special program, are we going to be able to upgrade this program we have? How's that supposed to work? So by electronic means, we're going to take accounts, which normally, clearly, we're going to put in the payment procedure, that's just that part of establishing this part of the electronic establishment of that programme. I mean a little clarification in any case, I say bravo for this way of setting up an e-Account, but maybe a little clarification on how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87217	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87218	Your Honor, thank you very much for asking. Here's a brief explanation. So we have introduced by law here a normative act based on whom we want to unify communication between end-users through an information intermediary that this end-user can choose on the market himself and the central platform according to which this information intermediary then has an unified interconnection. Therefore, all goes in favour of the fact that, within the next few months, and in the following year, both hardware and software and the licensing system will have to be unified, so that at the level of the Republic of Croatia, through a single information backbone, which will be provided with a transparent insight into the exchange or defined rules by which the end-user comes to an information intermediary, an information intermediary, an information interface to the information backbone, through which it then closes the way to the supplier or end-user on the other hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87219	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. First application on behalf of Klub representative of HDZ colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors, Mr. Secretary of State, your esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here we have one law in front of us in the first reading of that group of technical laws, it has all 16 points, contains 16 points, and what the minister very extensively and in detail explained deals with e-Current problems. This law therefore transposes one directive into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which is Directive 2014/55 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 governing relations in these business relations in the electronic issue of public procurement accounts. In itself, the law represents one of the measures of the National Programme of Reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2018, and the main objective of the measure is 100% of the issue and receipt of e-Accounts in public procurement. The introduction of electronic invoices into business is speeded up and automated all business processes, operating costs are reduced and fiscal impact in public procurement is fully transparent. The establishment of an overall process of electronic procurement can achieve maximum effects and savings, which can be estimated at between 6 and 13% of the total amount of public procurement, which means more than 2.6 billion kuna for the Republic of Croatia. So one of the massive amounts of the law in itself, when viewed like this, is technically not given the impression that it can be saved so much. In fact, the total value of public procurement in 2016 was 44 million and 800 thousand kuna, and the total value of the small value recorded, which is also covered by this law, is 10 million and 200 thousand kuna, respectively, approximately 22.89%. In order to enable the exchange of e-Accounts at national and local level, it is necessary to provide transport infrastructure for the continuous interconnection of information intermediaries and the exchange of e-Accounts and for the implementation of this law to provide funding in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to 4 million kuna per year and to be provided at the position of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts for 2019, and primarily at the 2020-2021 projections. The site platform will provide more than 12.5 million interconnections between public and sectoral suppliers and suppliers. The establishment of a financial agency as an information intermediary for certain public contracting authorities in a concrete draft of its draft law is therefore found in that Law on State Information Infrastructure, the Regulation on organisational and technical standards for the integration of state information infrastructure and in the Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the adoption of structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents for the bodies of the state administration of the budgetary users of the state budget. In this regard, it should be said that, in the public debate, the most in some way, the remarks and the proposals have just made this decision by the Ministry of Economy, where it was suggested in the first order of the units of local self-government that it should be extended in some way under "democracy" in any way in a way that the second one might be able to perform that service, but it should be said that with this decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and these earlier draft laws by the Ministry of Economy have made a good decision and has appointed FINA as the technical enforcer of this law, which I think is a good and only logical sequence of all those decisions that the Government made in earlier periods. Therefore, the basis for the above-mentioned rules has provided information intermediation services for the monitoring of the business process for the adoption of structured accounts in electronic form and accompanying documents and services for the authorities of the state administration and the budgetary users of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia since 2016. The relevant central system of platforms for the exchange of e-Account of the financial agency was established in 2016, through which electronic accounts are received by the central state authorities of the administration, but also by other public bodies such as units of local, regional and regional self-government. Therefore, the draft bill, based on positive experiences, in the implementation of that decision and the roles of the FINA as a provider of the provision of services, only extends the already assigned role of the FINA as an information intermediary to receive and send electronic accounts and accompanying documents to certain contracting authorities. To this end, the ministry has also allocated funds, cca 900 000 kuna, to upgrade existing programmes so that this service can be provided as high as possible. This also means that all other contracting authorities and economic operators, suppliers can continue to choose which information intermediary on the market they want, but will have to be contacted at the FINA as the final supplier of the service. This bill also provides a functional eco-system that will generate jobs, not only for information intermediaries, but also for system-innovators and companies involved in the development of business processes. So what I was saying at the outset, it's one technical law of only 16 articles, it's important to implement it, that law is in some way and is incorporated through the National Reform Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HDZ Club will support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87221	Thank you, fellow Kleman. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives Dragana Jeckov, on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87222	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary representatives and MPs. I welcome the fact that the Minister is with us, I think it is important, given that this is a new law, that it is actually a newspaper that will sort of bring us into this modern European market, especially when it comes to public procurement, and that is why it is very good that it is in some way that the minister explains, that I am not saying that he is defending him, he will not have the opportunity to defend him, but the explanation we have heard. The European Commission, as the highest body at EU level in the field of public procurement, believes that public procurement is just one of the development generators. Why is that? It is precisely because about 12 to 15% of the EU's GDP, i.e. the Commission sees this public procurement as an instrument for increasing sustainable growth and supporting job creation. Public procurement, however, is rarely seen in public as one of the development generators, and very often perception is that public procurement is the ideal place to demonstrate corrupt work. But if we promote the value of public procurement in Croatia and in other EU members, as I said, ranging from 12% to 14% of GDP, we will see that there are therefore really significant opportunities. The value of the public procurement contract in Croatia runs at an annual level around a third of the state budget and covers about 15,000 contracts to which the Public Procurement Act applies and over 40,000 contracts created by the foundation of the bagatelical procurement. That is why any improvement in the public procurement system for the state is a step towards anti-corruption. What brings us a bill that becomes mandatory in public procurement procedures since 1.12 this year? The European Commission has prescribed a uniform content of electronic accounts and the contracting authorities will be obliged to receive and process such received accounts. Such a system will generate significant operational savings for both customers and businesses and reduce barriers to cross-border trade within the EU. E accounts should be simpler to use and easily understandable, given that in particular small and medium-sized enterprises have at their disposal a limited number of workers and financial resources. The introduction of accounts speeds up and automates business processes, reduce business costs, achieve significant savings and potentially generates greater additional value in business, both in the economic sector and in the public administration. In this way, the conditions for contracting authorities to receive and process structured electronic accounts which are in accordance with the European Standard on Electronic Accounting will be ensured. The electronic exchange of accounts allows for the interconnection of the economy, as well as public and state authorities, and ultimately leads to a more competitive business. It is estimated that by switching to electronic accounts, budget savings will be made from 6% to 13% of the total amount of public procurement, i.e. around 2 and a half billion kuna per year, as stated by the esteemed colleague. One important advantage of introducing electronic invoices into business processes is to ensure tax supervision and any revision of real-time financial operations, which is an invaluable moment for fiscal impact transparency, especially when it comes to public procurement procedures. As I said, the new draft law also prescribes a single European electronic business standard in accordance with the European Regulation, which facilitates cross-border procurement. Electronic exchange for public contracting authorities will also take place through the central communication and interconnection platform. Just giving work to the FINA has also caused the highest reaction, but it is important to point out that in 2017 the volume of the exchange of accounts is only 10%, and the percentage of the adoption of this law is expected to increase significantly. The introduction of electronic invoices in business speeds up and automates business processes, reduce business costs, generate significant savings and potentially create higher value added in business. The aim is to start with the establishment of an integrated electronic procurement process since the publication of competition through electronic submission of offers, control of contract execution, e-accounts and e-payments, which will result in maximum effects of digitisation of the public procurement process in the Republic of Croatia with all savings and assumed transparency. By applying the central information intermediary to public contracting authorities within the meaning of this law, it would be possible to simply use the e-account system for public contracting authorities since account issuers will not have to keep track of the individual public or sectors of the contracting authority but will be uninterrupted in sending electronic accounts either independently or through the selected information intermediary. According to the legislative proposal, the obligation to receive electronic accounts in public procurement procedures for all public authorities begins 1. 12. Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/70 is amended as follows: The application of the Central Information Intermediate for Public Contractors entrusted to the FINA allows for the ease of using an electronic account exchange system for public contracting authorities, since account issuers will not have to keep an account of where each public or sectoral contracting entity is located. That model simplifies the use of the system and all information intermediaries, given that they will not have to establish individual links to each other in order to get the electronic account from the issuer to the contracting authority. We point out that other EU Member States have chosen such a model, so I will point out a good example of Slovenia where the role of an information intermediary is also being played by a state-owned company, and such a system has proved to be an excellent solution that has been incessantly functioning for 3 years and the volume of electronic account exchange is constantly increasing. We see the law in force as providing the necessary support to public contracting authorities, contracting authorities and suppliers, which enables them to easily connect with all participants without the need to use different protocols in the event of the integration of economic operators between two and more different information intermediaries, thus creating significant savings in terms of integration and operational affairs. The value of signed contracts in public procurement in the Republic of Croatia at annual level is approximately 1/3 of the annual state budget, or around 45 billion kuna. It should therefore be noted that even small improvements in the public procurement system can have very significant results and economic experts in the area of public procurement consider that, for example, savings from only 10% of the value of public procurement would free more than 4 billion kuna per year for potential new project developments. These savings could be achieved through better planning of public procurement and better quality technical solutions. And finally, to conclude, expecting that precisely the use of the e-system, the e-account system will affect greater transparency in public procurement procedures and provide certain budgetary savings that we have heard are predicted to be around 6% to 13% of the total amount of public procurement, the SDSS Representatives Club welcomes the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87223	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87224	Proposal for a Law on e-invoicing in public procurement. First reading P.Z.E. Number 358. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- A proposal for a Law on Electronic Insulation of Public Procurement and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that unanimously with 92 votes to deliver the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87225	We move to the next item of the agenda, i.e.: (a) The proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Electronic Media Council and (a) The proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Electronic Media Council is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 68. The law on electronic media. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Information and Information and Media. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? With us is Minister of Culture Nina Obuljen Koržinek. Here, take it easy. There's no rush.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, you have a agenda item in front of you regarding the selection of candidates for members of the Electronic Media Council. I would like to remind you that by decision of the Croatian Parliament of 26 April the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has appointed two members in fact two members of the Council for Electronic Media, Mr.sc. Susanna Kunac and Mr. Sc. Gordana Simonovic, in time for 5 years whose mandate expired on May 1st. By decision of the Croatian Parliament of 20 September 2013 on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Robert Tomljenović was appointed a member of the Council for Electronic Media at the time of 5 years and his term of office expires on 20 September 2018. Based on the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia of 15 March 2018, the Ministry of Culture pursuant to Article 68(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Law on Electronic Media has issued a public call for the appointment of three members of the Council for Electronic Media and candidates' applications have been collected. By taking into account the résumés, previous experience, by considering all of these applications and according to the criteria set out in the law, it is proposed to propose to the Croatian Parliament a resolution of Mr.sc. Susane Kunac and Mr. Sc. Gordana Simonovic as a member of the Council for Electronic Media and to be appointed Damir Bučević and Josip Popovac as members of the Council for Electronic Media. As for the 3 members, Mr Robert Tomljenovic, who ceases his duty on September 20th, it is proposed to be re-appointed as a member of the Electronic Media Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87227	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. So we open the debate, the first to appear on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of fellow Members Miro Bulj. Since my colleague Mira Bulja is gone, he's losing his way of arguing. The next application is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague of Suncana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As the minister said in the introduction, after a public call, it is proposed to appoint Mr Damir Bucevic and Mr Josipi Popovac. What is evident from their résumés is people who have great experience in working in the media especially when we talk about Mr. Josip Popovac, who almost spent his entire working life on HRT. He's been through all the sites on HRT and for a while he's been director of HRT. It is qualified by course and its education and I think it will make a good contribution as a member of the Council for Electronic Media as well as Mr Damir Butcevic. But what I would like to say when we talk about these two new people is that we all expect the members of the Electronic Media Council to give one new added value, given that our world of media is changing rapidly, that technological development and the emergence of new media is affecting all segments of society in some new forms. The development of the Internet and digital media has also changed the understanding of information. We are all aware of this every day because at this very moment one of you or someone who follows us on another media is informed and we are aware that information actually comes up to everyone much faster than it was, for example, 10 years ago. It's also changed the perception of information and the phenomenon of the media we know. The digital world thus became a new dimension with all those positive sides that we all wanted to be a part of the global world and the power from every corner of the world to get information at the same time. However, these precious advantages in the virtual world are also given to many unwanted effects that we must not take into account. And before that, it will be a task of both existing and new members of the Electronic Media Council because we expect them as regulators to be more strongly involved in monitoring the process but in no way ignore those classical media that we know by quotes, some might already call them older media, I am talking here first of all about TV and radio stations. They work in local communities, of course taken care of by the Council for Electronic Media, and they are financed through the so-called so-called "Them". a fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media. At this point in the Republic of Croatia is active 19 television stations, two to three years ago we had a big problem when numerous local TV stations were shut down. At this point, 3 are still ahead of a new concession and 2 in Zadar and 1 in Lika, which we can and welcome, which means that local televisions, which is their job, will inform their citizens of all the most important things. I believe we're all aware that national TV homes have some news from so-called. small environments fail to push into their 35 or 40 minutes. That's why the value of local television and local radio stations is added. They are a valuable source of information for all our citizens and for all of us who act either at political level or in any segment of socially responsible action in our local communities. New members of the Electronic Media Council will also have the responsibility to deploy funds from the Fund. This year, 14 million kunas from the fund were allocated to local TV stations. Lastly, by amending the law, and will be remembered by the minister and her associates when electronic publications entered the law, so something reduced the cake, but there are people who have managed to find a balance not to fire employees who are currently on local TV and radio stations in the Republic of Croatia with 2,000. I therefore expect new members of the Council to follow new media, to be more involved in monitoring, monitoring what is happening in the media, and to pay particular attention to any way that the media, any radio, TV station or electronic publications bring added value, and in which way they actually bring the least said unrest in the public space. I therefore think that the agency, or the Council for Electronic Media, must be involved in what is happening throughout Europe and in part in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that we will soon have one such proposal, and that is, above all, the harmonisation of our laws with what we call hate speech, not only on the Internet, but in the media in general, and how that new generations, which, in fact, through different applications or through the digital world, create their own image of the world that surrounds it, are properly involved in its creation. This is what I expect from the new members of the Council for Electronic Media to whom the HDZ Club will trust, of course, both critical and objectively, the work of both them and the people sitting in the council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87229	Thank you, too. Next in discussions of SDSS Representatives Club counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87230	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us this point that speaks of the resolution or appointment of new members of the Council for Electronic Media, which has a total of seven members and which actually manage the Agency for Electronic Media. The president and those members of the Council shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the government, and their term of office shall be five years. As this part of the Council has expired, it is natural for them to be resolved and proposed and appointed new. The Council is very important and very important in the media space of the Republic of Croatia, sometimes even this goes below the radar what their importance is and which they have great and significant powers in editing the media space. Among other things, one of the important competences is to give a concession to carry out the activities of providing media services, television and radio, so they award concessions. Another important responsibility is essentially the Agency's Pluralism Fund. This fund promotes pluralism and diversity of electronic media, and these funds are important for the financing of a large number of media. Other funds from the Fund shall also be allocated to programmes intended to preserve and maintain the language of members of national minorities fully produced in the language of members of national minorities. In addition, the allocation of funds from the Fund and the Council for Electronic Media shall carry out or ensure supervision of the implementation of programme principles and obligations on media service providers, therefore one monitoring shall be carried out directly or indirectly. As a result of the economic crisis and the crisis of the media, and also the development of technology, we are increasingly seeing a large number of portals that are de facto performing a large part of the function of the public media. It is good that the doors of the Pluralism Fund have been opened a few years ago by the Council of Electronic Media and these Internet portals because they are very important, but what is not good is that their share in the funds that the fund grants very little. When we look at the average amount of support per portal is about 65,000 kuna, and other funds that were in the state budget such as funds from other sources have been abolished, so that this fund remains the only funding tool for some portals, especially if we take into account that the advertiser's interest in financing these portals is very small. What I would like to point out here and what is important for this point, so the tasks of this council are extremely important, and when the President of the Council of Electronic Media was in the Assembly and presented a report for the previous three years then he said that the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media made in 2013 were actually not helpful in regulating hate speech and today we can say that after these changes we have an unbalanced approach when we look at sanctioning according to media types. It is, in my opinion, a mild formulation of the situation that we have in the regulation itself, and it absolutely does not correspond to what is in reality, what is happening in practice and what these people who are in the Council for Electronic Media should implement. The amendment of the Law on Electronic Media announced by the Ministry of Culture for the fourth quarter of this year and I think that this document and this amendment of the law and the announced media strategy must make sure that they rightly treat the hate speech that appears in the media. We also believe that the media strategy should promote the participation of members of minority communities in public social life, as well as the sustainable financing of non-profit media. Not only are the media that are being financed extensively from the budget today but specialised emissions should be financed, but the new media policy of public service should be avoided, exclusively based on the promotion of tolerance in all programmes on the suspension of issues that are important for minorities and the discontinuation of the treatment of minorities exclusively through their cultural and religious diversity and the neglect of their political life. And we must openly say that minority members on the ground and we, as minority representatives, are dissatisfied with media treatment, we are dissatisfied with the treatment of hate speech in the media. It may not only be the responsibility of members of the Electronic Media Council, but they certainly have part of the responsibility. It has a part of the responsibility of the Council for Electronics of the media, has part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, has responsibility and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because so far we have not established effective mechanisms for the application of domestic laws and practices of the European Court of Human Rights to prevent hate speech and discriminatory speech in all kinds of media. Unfortunately, the sowing of discord and hatred, and that generalization, the calling without evidence, took so much wave on the portals that the truth of lies was learned more. And then the task is primarily because, according to the Law of the Council for Electronic Media, it is carried out, the task of these people to give their way to the Ministry of Culture and to the making of laws and to the making of a media strategy, the right input, essentially how to treat these phenomena. And it's up to us to choose people, so we vote for people who, in the board of electronic media, will be quality, quality knowledge of the matter that I've been talking about now, so that we can give such inputs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87231	Thank you, colleagues, to Boris Milosevic. The next application of the individual debate of Hrvoje Zekanovic, since his colleagues are not there, Minister, finally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87232	Since both representatives who spoke on behalf of the club have also touched on the broader state and issues of the media and in particular the tendency and the question of hate speech and the question of false news, I would point out the role of the Council for Electronic Media, through the current legislative framework and would particularly highlight the project to promote media literacy, which has developed within the Council and which is, in fact, within the Agency and which is one of the projects recognised at European level as a major contribution to the development of media literacy. As they said, there are amendments to the Law on Electronic Media that we have announced for the end of this year for 4 quarters, and in the following year and the Media Act and with attention we will listen to all comments and all suggestions, which through your discussions, whether in plenary sessions or through committees, will be given to make a single step in this normative sense, and so that our regulatory body can follow it through its powers. That's just final. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87233	Thank you for that, and we'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87234	We're going to the next point. (a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of part of the members of the Electronic Media Council and (b) Proposal for a decision appointing part of the members of the Electronic Media Council. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. Based on an article. 199. The Rules of Procedure of these amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on the proposal that the Government may submit amendments after the debate is concluded. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 78 for and 3 votes against a decision that the government can submit amendments after the debate is concluded. I now ask the Government's representative to explain the amendments submitted. With us again is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, the esteemed Ivica Poljičak. Here's all four, explain it all at once, and then we'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87235	Here the key amendment refers to the current president and member leaving for a new post, it is about Mr. Damir Hajduk, and instead the government proposes that the president and member be Mr. Josip Popovac. Thank you, please support and accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87236	Okay, I'm opening up a debate. If no one is answering, I shall conclude the debate and give the amendment to the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the President and the work of the members of the Electronic Media Council. Let's go to Amendment number one first, please vote. I find that the amendment has received the required number of votes and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number two, please vote. And this amendment has received the required number of votes 75 for, 15 against, so it becomes an integral part of the decision. We're going to Amendment number three. And excuse me, then let's go to the vote now, I am voting on the motion for a decision on the resolution of the president and the actions of the members of the Council for Electronic Media, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 15 abstentions, have been decided to resolve the president and the work of the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted. I am now voting on the amendment to the Proposal for a Decision appointing the president and the work of the members of the Council for Electronic Media, and there are two amendments, let's vote first on Amendment 1, let's vote. I find he's got the number of votes needed, 76 for and 13 against, so he becomes an integral part of the decision. And we have amendment number two, please vote. And this amendment has received the required number of votes, 76 for, 15 against, so it becomes an integral part of this decision too. So I am now voting on the motion for a decision to appoint a president and the work of members of the Council for Electronic Media, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour and 15 votes against decisions taken on the appointment of the president and the work of the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87237	I suggest that the following two points of the agenda unite this is: - Final proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, second reading, P.Z. No. 319 and - Final proposal of the Law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on cinematographic co-production (revised), second reading of P.Z. No. 359 Do you agree with that? Thank you very much. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190 Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 1(2). 197 Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education of Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Here you are, Mrs. Nina Ouljen Koržinek, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In front of you, the Final Proposal for the Law on Audiovisual Activities, which this High House, discussed at its plenary session at the end of April of this year. I would like to thank from this place at the beginning for the interesting debate and the suggestions that we have received through this debate, which we have greatly appreciated for this second reading and respect, and also at the very beginning at the end of this process, a little more than a year in this law, I would like to thank the representatives of all professional associations, all those who have contributed their contribution through public debate and particularly the economic social council and the Croatian employers' association who have been very actively involved with us in preparing this law. In my opening presentation, when the law was in the first reading, I reminded myself of the numerous successes of Croatian cinematography and the results that have been achieved over the past 10, 11 years since we actually established a new system, a modern system of governance and financing cinematography, and would not be returning to this topic again. But I think it is very important to register that, just by passing the law in 2007, the establishment of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre, the active positioning of the director of the centre and all bodies of the centre and through international forums, but also national level, in fact, Croatian cinematography, has received one serious momentum, which we are witnessing today through the successes of international festivals and all that Croatian films and Croatian film workers actually achieve, both by enriching Croatian culture and art, and by contributing to Croatia's promotions abroad. As far as the text of the law is concerned, I would like to remind myself of some of the most important points, which have been changed in relation to the current legislative framework, and of course, especially what we have changed between the two readings. At first we worked on definitions, we did it differently, in order to adapt them to today's time, and I especially want to point out that in the field of audiovisual activities and audiovisual works we actually included the definition of video games, which created a legal framework for the further development of one of the most promising segments of the audiovisual industry which is actually developing in Croatia and in Croatia a large number of creators work in this area. One of the issues that we worked on between the two readings is the further development and clarification of the definition of the audiovisual producer, and we actually introduced certain adjustments in a way that the producer can also be a natural person, can be a craftsman, can be a person who performs an independent activity or legal person. This definition is not only technical, it is extremely important for this law to correspond with the rules on the protection of intellectual property of copyright but in fact accurately define everything generated by the definition of producers as one of the contributors in the creation of the film. This law introduces a new structure of the board of directors, and I must say here that, in fact, in all the amendments to all the laws that we make from our section, we want and through the law-defined conditions for management bodies, if I can say so constantly raise a scale and set more criteria in terms of the expertise of the person we appoint or choose in these management bodies, so in that sense the Management Board is now defined as a body in which an economic-financial, one legal expert and two members of audiovisual experts with the necessary experience are appointed. We are introducing a new structure of the Croatian-audivisual Council. As was the debate in the first reading. So one of the members of the audiovisual council will now be a representative of the Ministry of Culture. However, what is important is the conditions and professional qualifications for the appointment of members, the process of confirming appointed members in order to avoid any possibility of blocking the work of the audiovisual council and reducing the term of office from 4 to 2 years in order to actually follow the need for certain people who agree to be part of such a body in some part of their career and during that period completely exclude themselves from active creation in fact to shorten those periods in which they could be excluded due to the possible suspicion of conflict of interest. However, in addition to address certain concerns related to the issue of conflict of interest, we now define the institution of the deputy member of the Croatian Audiovisual Council and in fact how the audiovisual council decides in the cycles of individual competitions, the issue of conflict of interest, and on the grounds that it is arranged and in European financing, we bind it to a particular competition cycle and in this competition cycle of a member of the Croatian Audiovisual Council, if there is any doubt of possible conflict of interest, is withdrawn and its place is taken by the deputy member. Detailed procedures for the appointment and resolution of directors and members of the centre body shall be laid down. The issue of conflict of interest is further defined, although I have to say as often from this pay phone and on committees, we have been extremely sensitive to the area of conflict of interest, but very often here we are in trouble given the size of each area and the number of people who are working in a particular artistic area at all. If you want decisions to be made by those who are the most professional and who have left the greatest mark in their careers, it is very difficult to find persons who, in all normative parameters, will be excluded from any suspicion of any conflict of interest. I think that with this solution that we are embezzling in this bill we have actually set a standard that we will certainly include in the next year and in the new Cultural Councils Act. But what we must always look out for is that there are regulations on the one hand, on the other hand there is a political culture, there is morality, there is ethics, and we must take care of both segments equally and actually give confidence to those who are most excellent in each profession that, in their professional habitat, they will actually make objective and uncompromised decisions. As regards Article 12(2) and the entire incentive system for the export of film services, this is the incentive that we give when foreign co-production or production are recorded in the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, we raised that amount from 20% to 25%. I am very pleased that colleagues in the government as well as HUP and other resolutions recognize the great contribution of this instrument and this institution to support Croatia's economy, and this is also very well seen from the calculation of the Institute of Public Finance through the primary and secondary effects especially in terms of advertising, presentations of Croatia, attraction, especially related to tourism of new guests. What is a major innovation of this law and what is actually one of our contributions to fostering economic activity in less developed areas is that we included in the law the possibility of achieving a financial incentive of 30% in cases where the recording takes place in below-average-ranked units and according to a special law. So our intensity is to send a message to investors, send a message to major studios and producers, 25% to film in Croatia. Very often, these shootings attract otherwise very well-known tourist destinations and 30% if these activities go below the average developed areas, or below the average rating unit. We believe this type of capital is extremely sensitive to incentives. We need to know that a big competition between different countries that are trying to attract different combinations of incentives to investors, we believe that these additional 5%, in fact, in some areas where it may have been difficult to expect such activities to attract investors. And then that means big local consumption and congestion and contribution to the local economy. I would just repeat that by law we introduce mechanisms only regulation and co-regulation, these are principles that we transpose from our media legislation and that we think we need to use them as much as possible to better regulate relations between the different stakeholders in this area. The deadlines and the procedure for the adoption of a national programme for the promotion of audiovisual creation which, as a strategic document of national importance, is now being carried out by the Government under this proposal, in order to further give it the importance and consistency of the annual plan for the implementation of the national programme with the HAVC's financial plan. It shall also specify the way in which public calls are called and harmonised with the centre with the annual implementation plan of the national programme. Another issue that was raised in the debate in the first reading was the question of increasing the percentage of the screening of cinema viewers. I must say, since I was involved in the making of the first law, and even in the changes and additions of 2011, during that period we know that the visit to the cinema in Croatia was at the historical lowest levels, that the network of individual cinemas in Croatia was actually ahead of the shut-down, that multiplexes were only produced and that actually those investors in Multiplexe were at one stage of large investments and large borrowings, and we actually left this conscious cinema demonstration activity at one point, we can say a symbolic percentage. In the meantime, there have been very positive shifts, and I particularly highlight the national programme of digitisation of small cinemas that started in 2011 which has been successfully implemented since 2012 and is being implemented today and where we are, in fact, all the results of the indicators show us that we have also achieved this investment in a smaller cinema hall to revive the visit to cinemas and revive small cinemas in the smaller environments. And in this sense, the conditions have been created that even in communication with the Cinema Viewers Association, we have increased their contribution from 0.1 to 0.5, with the need to be aware and related to this previous debate, the way we consume or participate in the participation of watching movies and audiovisual works radically changing, very rapidly and very quickly we will be back in the situation that we may have to think about some additional programs to maintain our cinema network in order to make this important part as a cinema viewer, as activity adapted to today's time. And just a few more points related to the law are being introduced, so the possibility of funding investment in the production of audiovisual works from other sources is being more clearly determined as they include and from which sources the funds for the work of the centre are provided and we have introduced a new Article 46 from the first reading to the second reading which is regulated to apply the provisions of this law and the rules for the promotion of audiovisual creation, culture and audiovisual cultural heritage, in fact, to apply the provisions of this Regulation. This may be a technical article, but it is extremely important that it does not come at any time due to the once-consuming procedures related to the approval of the State Support Programme, so as to avoid any delay in the financing of the production of audiovisual works. I would like to say so introducely about this law, once again, I would like to thank all those who participated in the public debate, and I am convinced that we have actually come to this high house with one proposal that will significantly improve and the activities of HAVC, some of the observed problems in functioning, and in fact remains on those who run HAVC, but primarily on our audiovisual professionals, professionals, creators, actually using their creative work as well as so far to take advantage of all the support and everything that is actually made available to them by this law. As we have united the debate, I would like only to brief some basic information on the final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Production, so something that is directly related to audiovisual activity. It is a new text, i.e. the revised text of the Convention, which, to remind you, was drawn up in 1992 and which actually gave the biggest cover to the development of film co-productions in Europe. What is changing today is primarily changing with regard to new models of cooperation, technological steps and the need to respect, in the field of film co-production, some modern trends in business, in this sense, more favourable conditions are created for the acquisition of the status of co-production of cinematographic works in which producers participate, in this case from the Republic of Croatia, in a way that will allow them to participate in more ambitious, multilateral and bilateral co-productions with a reduced minimum contribution to the total cost of production. If I can explain, it's actually about countries that are so-called countries. Large production capital, therefore larger and richer countries could participate in the creation, production of individual films, and then it happened that 20% of co-production was actually unattainable to countries with a lower production capacity. The debate was also held within the Council of Europe, but also within the EU, the European Parliament also made a major contribution to the debate. Our representatives were extremely active in these negotiations, and I am very pleased that this revision of the directive has actually respected and recognised the need to open co-productions under equal conditions and for countries of less co-production capacity. There is a significant change in the share of contributions, the minimum contribution is reduced from 10 to 5% in multiple productions, and from 20 to 10 in bilateral co-productions. What is equally important is the reach of the Convention extends to non-European countries as well. This is also very good in terms of promoting cultural diversity, dialogue between cultures. Europe needs to be open to other cultures, to learn about other cultures. This issue, of course, is particularly sensitive in those countries, which are extremely sensitive in today's times of migration for the need for their citizens to get to know these cultures from which these people come and to reduce prejudice and fears. On the other hand, and the Republic of Croatia through its bilateral cooperation agreements in the field of culture and education and science, most often includes articles on production, so we will, in fact, now and through the instrument of the Euroimage Fund, power and our bilateral contacts, which we establish, in fact, channel, that the funds are not only sought from national sources, but also from such a fund. Finally, the Convention sets out the content of the production contract, defining the participation of technical and artistic staff, which will certainly contribute to both employment and film employees from the Republic of Croatia. So much intro, we are, of course, here to answer all the questions. I hope the Parliament will support both the bill and the other bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87239	Thank you. At your presentation, we have one replica, colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87240	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates, you see life is dynamic and certain things happen between these two readings, which should be noted, when the Law on Audiovisual Activities is passed. In fact, this video game industry is far stronger today than the film industry and you've noticed it well and I'm glad that this law came in the second reading, and in the meantime it happened that the World Health Organization, in fact all those who are, the addiction to video games, has declared it a disease and it's a mental illness. And it should be said that in Croatia more than 5% of video game lovers are more than 8 hours ahead of these video games. So, I am particularly pleased that this has been prevented by this law, although you did not know about this decision by the World Health Organization, so I commend the second reading of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87241	Thank you. Can we continue, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? Maria Jelkovac, Vesna Bedekovic? So, we continue the debate, I am actually opening a debate on these two united laws, the first on behalf of the club of representatives of fellow Members Vesna Pusic, GLAS Club, HSU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87242	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with her associates. I have to say that it rarely happens in this House, that between the two readings, it happens that the motionary actually listens to something of what's being discussed and that he appreciates it in another variant. And in this respect I really want to commend him, because we usually get one and the same version in the first and second reading and no matter what we mildly verbose here, so that the GLAS Club and HSU had in the first reading, two topics and no objections regardless of all the details. One refers to financing and amounts in financing and the other refers to the government’s logo, i.e. the authorities’ decision on audiovisual production. In this first part, there has been a debate, and apparently your attitude, too, has been a positive change. In this second one, not really. In the first version, i.e., in the first reading, at the beginning of a kind of preamble of this law, there was one text that showed the achievements that were achieved by this model and by this approach of financing and organising in general audiovisual activity and decision-making, the results that were truly impressive. And I don't know why, in the second reading of that preamble or that opening part, there isn't, because, in my opinion, it's very important to repeat, since, in fact, that lies and inventions are often much more receptive, because they repeat themselves much more often than facts, and then, I think, it's useful and good and positive facts and positive results, which this model produced, repeat, maybe they get into someone's ear. So, as far as funding is concerned, the minister is now saying, noting those items that have changed. Here I think it is particularly important, the fact that with 20% of the incentives, this amount has increased to 25%, so, as is the case in the neighbouring countries that are with us in direct competition for co-production and for all of these things that can be Croatian cinematography and even audio-visual production and also the economy can profit and also where the amount with which they are obliged to finance cinema viewers has jumped from 0.1% to 0.5%, so 5 times has been increased, although still not on the European standard any of 2% and not to 1%, but in relation to what is originally proposed and absolutely appreciated here, which is why the Minister said actually cinema viewers in this form are in some way on the sunset, so let's tell them that it helps them to stay alive for a little longer time, but it is certain that in this respect they will have to change the situation of simple neflith and the general film content are too. So that part of the funding in relation to the first version is definitely fixed. As for state control or the presence of authorities in decision-making on audio-visual content and projects, we have not quite improved from first to second reading, so the Ministry still approves members of the Croatian Audio-visual Council plus in that council there is also a representative. As always with the presence of the state and with different types of such adventurous approach, if the state is in this regard or the person representing the state, which is the Ministry and Minister if they are enlightened and if they understand the subject, then it will probably not be negatively and dramatically reflected in the functioning of the Croatian Audiovisual Council. However, if that is not the case and therefore, of course, there is always the possibility that this type of influence of the state has an open space here that is actually starting to slowly degrade everything that this model of funding and this model of organization and the Croatian Audiovisual Centre itself has achieved in all these years and this is an increase as you remember from that preamble, so both the number of films and the earnings of the number of films by 300% and the earnings by 700%. So 3 times and 7 times compared to what was and in fact contributed in some way to the fact that Croatian cinema appeared as one relevant or at least in the creation of relevant cinematography in Europe. Opening up obviously because of all the scandals that have been happening, the political pressures that have been made have reacted to strengthening the accessibility and control of the state over what art and profession are doing here. In this regard, I cannot agree with this, it may be better explained to me, but I cannot agree with what the minister here has said about the reduction of the term of office of members of the Croatian Audio-visual Council from 4 to 2 years. It is known that the best way to keep such bodies at a certain distance and independence from the authorities is that their mandate does not match the mandate of the authorities. It may also be 4 years, but let's say it starts in the middle of one government and ends in the middle of another government. It's the most effective way, regardless of some may have bad intentions but suppose the intentions are absolutely the best. But the kind of failure to comply with the mandate of one such institution that decides on artistic production is what we see as the possibility of guaranteeing the autonomy and independence of such an institution and, in that sense, reducing the mandate to 2 years practically means that anyone who is not at will of power can be expelled and must think whether he will be able to repeat his mandate from that same authority. It's like I said, it's in these conditions, you can say ok, it's one team that really wants to do something in this area but laws are not passed, so says ad personam, but they are brought in principle and they have to be as secure as possible from this kind of intervention of subjection to political pressures, subjection to different manipulations by politics simply or by people who go out to elections and have to be justified or explained and for artistic work and creativity is therefore never particularly good. Therefore, we feel that the mandate would be added to one environment such as ours where there are simply not many people. And when I spoke in my first reading of the first version of this law, I said that provisions relating to conflict of interest should be considered because practically only auxiliary and accounting staff will be able to be delegated from individual institutions to an audiovisual council because everyone else is in conflict of interest because the note is engaged in this work. And the more successful they do this job, the less chance they're gonna get in a position to decide anything about that area. In one small environment that every two years you will find a new team of people who know something about this area and at the same time deal with this area and as creators at the same time are not at all in any way in the conflict of interest from this I do not understand unless by this logic those who are good for two years and listen will be able to do the next two years, those who do not, we will throw them out. That's why the two-year term doesn't seem right to me. It's not a good solution. As regards this second law that we are discussing here, and this is the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on Co-production, so on co-production in cinematography, this is, of course, good and absolutely necessary, and we are probably already somewhat late, it is necessary to facilitate the possibility of co-production as much as possible, encourage it and support it all the way around. I see that Budapest is already called Holywood Eastern Europe precisely because it is so liberalized and so encouraging co-production that they make big money on it and that they are very active, so it is something that it was absolutely already needed but because it is not, very good that we are not only confirming it but that we are also going to go into it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87243	Thank you very much. So you can have an intervention, please. Here, I call it intervention, you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, I would like to thank you for your comments and I think it is important for further debate to clarify some of the ambiguities that you have apostrophe. First of all, regarding this part of the cinematographer, perhaps what I did not mention, which is very important to mention, only two countries in Europe have a lower individual price of cinema tickets than an average cinema ticket to the Republic of Croatia. And as we know, the rights actually cost the same regardless, i.e. they are mostly paid in accordance with the size of the market. So that should actually be considered. However, this second section of Article 35, I think it is very important to answer some questions here, and I fear that it is not well interpreted content of Article 35. First of all, the minister in charge of culture does not approve and does not confirm members of the Audiovisual, Croatian Audiovisual Council. So they name and propose associations, they're the only ones who can propose and the only ones who can call off. So no authority has a minister to do that. What the minister is doing is confirming after determining whether the person meets the conditions or not. This article was carefully analyzed and drawn up in cooperation with all associations. One of the reasons why we introduced the Institute of Certificates is that there would be no chance of a blockade because of the situation that associations for some reason cannot appoint representatives through their bodies etc. In that sense, there is no strengthening on this part, no strengthening of the control of the association, the state. As for the two-year cut-off, it just came from the associations. So their proposal was to reduce the deadline to 2 years, with nothing stopping the association from proposing after 2 years three times, four times, five times the same person. So it has nothing to do with the government's cycles because the process doesn't run either the ministry or any politically elected person but the centre's bodies. So it has one of its dynamics as it has now. And in this sense, therefore, it cannot be a member of the audiovisual council, of course, unless it violates the law and then it must be initiated by the centre's bodies, it cannot be initiated by the impeachment or replacement of the minister. So read a good article 35 can only be done by the association that proposed it or her. And what's important, too, is that we followed the models of European funding where everyone who was an evaluator, here I can say I have personal experience, in fact you sign a special statement about the lack of conflict of interest for every competition you join as an evaluator. Because you can't know what, who's going to apply for a particular competition and you can't check in some previous check to list all possible situations of conflict of interest, and that's why this institute deputy who's appointed at the same time as the representative in the audiovisual council who can then withdraw and can enter another person, so I think that this statement on this article we've been working on for a very long time, we've analyzed all the possible situations that can happen, I think we've come up with a solution that retains the necessary level of expertise and independence of the audiovisual council, and it prevents the possibility that due to the possible conflict of interest of any member or member of the council is actually leading to a certain blockade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87245	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one is a colleague of Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87246	Dear Minister, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This law is necessary in the Republic of Croatia, but there are some things in it that are deeply controversial. You yourself mentioned an audiovisual council composed of 20 representatives of various institutions and associations. I'll single out just one and the other here for now, and later in an individual discussion, I'll have a little more detail. It is about the society of Croatian film directors who also delegates their member to the audiovisual council. I'm sorry you weren't on the board today where I asked a question, my esteemed colleague Partell answered, but I think he gave the wrong information, not on purpose, but I think he just made a mistake. To my question why is this association which, according to many Croatian directors who have addressed me for non-transparent purposes, I ask the question, I do not know and which is burdened with various criminal charges And it's not the only professional [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87247	Thank you, time. Here's your answer, my colleague, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87248	I'd just say the Croatian Audiovisual Council has so far had 15 members, and now it's 17, it's not 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87249	Thank you. Here you go, fellow Pusic Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87250	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, dear Minister, for these clarifications, but did I get it wrong? So, associations propose members of the council, can the minister not confirm if a person meets the conditions, of course, of all who they are?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87251	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87252	Here's my thanks. So no, the law here is explicit. The minister can't deny it, so he has to confirm if the person meets the requirements. So by the law of the prescribed conditions, there is no possibility of a minister not to confirm the person for any other reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87253	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Vesna Bedeković and counterpart Sunčana Glavak will share the debate. Here you go. First up is colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87254	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the first part of the debate, I will talk about the Law on Audiovisual Activities, and then my colleague Glavak will continue on the Council of Europe convention on cinematographic co-production. So if we talk about the Law on Audiovisual Activities, we can remember that the very problem of audiovisual activities in the Republic of Croatia is for the first time regulated precisely by this 2007 law, and later by amendments and additions from 2011. The problem of performing, organising and financing audiovisual activities is regulated, followed by the promotion of Croatian audiovisual creativity and distribution, the protection of audiovisual heritage, the promotion of cinema display, thus showing Croatian audiovisual works, both in the country and abroad is whether, and of course, the way of financial incentives to invest in the production of audiovisual works as cultural products in the form of a return of a certain percentage of the total cost of production of audiovisual works. With this concrete legislative proposal, just to remember, a clearer and much more transparent way will be arranged and the choice of how the members of the centre's body themselves and the description of their activities to ensure the smooth work of the centre and to prescribe the procedure for the appointment of the members themselves. the audiovisual council and, of course, what was a little bit of a matter of more detail and transparency is governed by the issue of conflict of interest, in a way that is precisely to clarify the cases in which both the director of the Centre and members of the board and members of the board and art advisers can be found in conflict of interest. What I feel is necessary to point out once again, although I also spoke about it in my first reading, but I think it is necessary to say that this proposal also regulates the national programme for promoting audiovisual creation in a way that prescribes both the scope and manner of promoting audiovisual activities and, of course, complementary and other activities and fostering audiovisual culture and creations relevant to the development of Croatian culture. Equally, activities related to participation in EU programmes and, of course, other international contracts, as well as all other issues of importance and importance for the development of this activity. And what may be important to point out once again that the basic issues that are regulated by this law refer to the regulation of the definition of audiovisual activity and audiovisual work, the introduction of self-regulation mechanisms, co-regulation, the deadlines and procedures for the adoption of a national programme for the promotion of audiovisual creation, the possibility of financing peace and encouraging investment in the production of audio-visual works and other sources that I find extremely important in the time in which we live. In addition, a way of providing funds for the work of the Croatian Audio-Visual Centre is arranged and thus for the implementation of the national programme for the promotion of audio-visual creation and the promotion of investment in the production of audio-visual works. Similarly, criteria, procedures, appointments and resolutions and directors of HAVC, members of the centre body, as well as artistic advisers are prescribed. The powers of the HAVC body and what is very important are laid down, so issues of conflict of interest for the members of the centre body and the artistic advisers as I have already said and, of course, not less important, are prescribed and regulated by the criminal and other transitional and final provisions. It has already been said, but here I also have the need to reiterate and further emphasise that after the debate was held in the first reading, most of the proposals that have been made were taken into account what rarely happens so here, I also need to thank the Minister for constructive cooperation both with her and with her associates and just here to remind her, although the Minister has already, therefore, made very clear and highlighted everything that has been introduced as a change in the second reading, I will just repeat it. Therefore, the final proposal took into account all the observations relating to Article 2(3) of the bill, so the word before the word "cultural identity" was added to the word "Croatian" so that the syntagma reads the Croatian cultural identity. Then, in Article 25 paragraph 1 of subparagraph 6 which personally welcomes, there has been an increase in the allocation of cinema viewers to 0.5% in accordance with what we have proposed. And it seems to me that Article 36 of paragraph 10 is the fact that the half majority necessary for the establishment of the HAVC Council and therefore, once again, I thank you for constructive cooperation and, of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on Audio-Visual Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87256	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So finally, given that these two points are united, a few words about the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Co-production. Given the significant technological, financial and economic development of the film industry and the need to reduce restrictions to promote co-production cooperation, the Council of Europe Convention is revised and replaced by the European Convention on Film Co-production. In this way, more favourable conditions will be created for the acquisition of the production status of cinematographic works in which producers from the Republic of Croatia participate and, as already in part, the minister touched it, enabling them to participate in ambitious multilateral and bilateral co-productions and, most importantly, with a reduced minimum contribution to the total cost of production. A significant change in co-producers’ contribution rates, which is particularly explained in Article 6 on the total cost of co-production of cinematographic work, thus facilitating the participation of producers from countries such as the so-called lower production capacity, so now the minimum contribution is reduced from 10 to 5% in multiple co-productions. Similarly, the share of the maximum contribution from 70 to 80% of the total cost of production of the cinematographic work created in multifaceted co-production has been increased. In two-sided co-productions, the minimum share was reduced from 20 to 10% and the biggest contribution should not exceed 90 total cost of production. The reaching of the Convention is also extended to non-European countries, so more than 20 years after the adoption of that Convention since 1992, conditions in the field of European film co-production have changed significantly, the European film industry has been more open to exchange with partners from around the world, so the amendments to the Convention were necessary in order to actually keep pace with changes in the film industry. The Convention also provides for the content of a co-production contract that must guarantee to each co-producer the joint ownership of material and immaterial rights to work as well as the appropriate participation of technical and artistic staff, which will contribute to the employment and employment of Croatian filmmakers, which is equally of interest to us. The Convention also creates an international legal framework and other conditions for the successful implementation of multilateral and bilateral co-productions in the Republic of Croatia as a desirable destination for the production of audio-visual works. We are witnessing that this is also a total contribution and popularisation of the Republic of Croatia in terms of tourism, we have already had great co-productions, so I think this change will also contribute to this. When I mentioned the contract, except for the definition of financing, there is a question and permits for work permits, a question of language, so it will be kind of a simplified entry of all those who need work permits during the performance of jobs or filmmaking or any cinematographic work that falls under the scope of this Convention, and so what is always important to us, the identity we like to talk about, when granting co-production status, the competent authority of the party may require the co-producers established in that party to be the final version of that work and in one of the languages of that party. I will end up with good news that came from the beginning of this year, which is that Croatian co-productions were also observed at the Cannes Film Festival and soundance film festival in January, as much as 3 of our co-productions, and what we can especially praise all the three co-productions were directed by women and therefore especially congratulating, of course we will support the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87257	Thank you. We continue with individual discussions. The first is a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87258	.../Speaker disabled./ All right, I'm sorry. [[Intruder Doncic: Please turn on the microphone.]] Okay, I'll do it again. This law is necessary, but you yourself have made it very clear that there is one body, an audiovisual council that is crucial in this law. A body that decides to distribute money. That body is composed, you said nicely just before 17, if I'm not mistaken, representatives of various institutions and associations. The first question I ask, why does the state even transfer responsibility, or its business, in this particular case the ministry, to the citizens' association? Three people, any three people in the Republic of Croatia who are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, can literally form an association within half an hour, and then the ministry transfers one part of the jobs to them and said it was a roof association, a professional association from that field. Here is a particularly controversial association, not as controversial as such, but has a lot of complaints about its action, the company of Croatian film directors. If you did not know, there are a whole range of other associations that deal with this same field, and they are not allowed to delegate their member to the Croatian Audiovisual Council, only they are enabled and declared a roof association. I argue, because I have such information from the directors, from producers, from the people of this sector, that this association does not represent the majority of Croatian filmmakers, does not represent. We're talking about directors here specifically, not representing, but someone has declared it crucial. That's one thing. So the first question is why the association at all, why wouldn't the ministry do it? I will remind you of a recent event when there was a Croatian library society where the same ministry transferred its part of the work to the association and declared it a roof and professional association, so we almost had what we had, but we won't talk about it. Okay, and now there was one question on the board, the esteemed colleague Partell answered me, I'll repeat I don't think it was intentional, it was a mistake, but I have information coming from second to second. The money, and it's 29 million, almost 30 million kunas that this company today, the disputed one is asking someone, is not the money you said came from the ministry and it comes from some debt transfer, it's not, it's not that money. That's the money this association is looking for in the name of retransmission. Let me explain a little bit what this is about for those who don't understand. I wasn't involved much in the subject until yesterday either, so here I am yesterday and today I tried to get in a little bit. ZAMP, as it does with musical works, among music performers, as well as with audiovisual offices, collects money from those who reproduce it and return that money to those whose work is shown. Here is a certain association, the association of Croatian film directors that distributes that money around and these are the claims as much as I have information. But I'd like this examined, that's the money. It's money that hasn't been shown in years and years in financial reports, it suddenly came up last year. The leaders, and you're ministers, it's also very interesting, you've been to the HAVC Supervisory Board, yes, you've been, where the director of Hribar was, who has a whole series of criminal reports and where there have been numerous irregularities in the operation of that body, numerous irregularities, so this is the question. Did that money come to the association? If he came to whom was that money distributed? If he didn't come, where is he and who's using it? So where's the retransmission money? Simple question. Did that money stay in ZAMP, get lost on the road, drop someone out of the bag or come into the association, but you can't see it on the financial records. So it's just a matter of that money. And if the association didn't get that money, why didn't any of the leaders of that association ask the question all this time where our money is, where's our money? It is the money of the association, which is actually the money of Croatian taxpayers, that is, my money, and our money, and nobody is asking it, or I'm asking it. And what's the issue? It is disputed that you, quite lightly, have put one association that has doubts about its work, I will not insinuate now, but let's see where that money is, you put it to distribute that money further, or to decide who's going to get the money, that it delegates that member, I don't know by what key. And here I have to say what's very controversial about the Minister still here for me personally, and also for many Croatian citizens, and that's because this famous HAVC is making great watches about the Homeland War, and then whatever film about the Homeland War has been made in the past decades, if you've looked at it, and you've had patriotism, you've been very sad... that film you've seen. No film on the Homeland War has been filmed that eventually the Croatian defender did not kill himself in the end, that he did not end up in a asylum, that there is no heavy PTSD not to harass the family. We have not seen a single film about the Homeland War that would work to promote those key values of the Homeland War that when a man leaves the cinema hall or when he finishes watching that film in his home with his family to be satisfied and proud of Croatian defenders and all that they have done to the Croatian homeland. We have watches after which people take apaurin. And why Hribar, HAVC and other teams are making films like Masakra in the court or the last Serb in Croatia, and we don't have a film about the Flash Storm, about the courage of Croatian defenders that when a young Croatian man looks at the film book to say that I am proud of the Croatian army, of the Croatian defenders on my homeland, and there is no such thing. And what I'm pointing out about these problems about this association, or related to HAVC, is actually here the core because their programming policy is wrong and wrong. I'm interested in your explanation on this subject, what are you going to say about why it's not in the balance sheet? That's why that money just doesn't exist. And I would if I were a minister, and if I had some association and HAVC that's also under investigation, you know, I'd really think about it before I can pass this law that I put in my body and I wouldn't kick it. Because if a lot of producer directors objected and doubted about transparency, I'd be like a minister if I were a minister, and here you are, the minister has reconsidered the matter and seen what's going on. I will repeat, the money did not come from the debts of some ministry towards the association but from ZAMP, which is about now about 11 million kuna per year received by the Croatian Directors' Association, and there is no money. And that's what's important, and that's the question we haven't got an answer to yet. And I'm going to say from the beginning, there's a lot of associations that deal with this question, and why is this one chosen? Although what matters is the same thing, I almost forgot to say, how is it possible that in one body that is crucial in that council are people who give themselves money? In my opinion, this council should be exclusively in the ministry, and no one who has no interest in the Council's decisions can be in that council. And it's a disaster, so he decides to give himself money. I heard a story yesterday that a member of that council went out to light a cigarette while he was being given the money, so I said I didn't vote for myself. And that's state public money, and then you put three people in that council or 17 and then they share money with each other. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87259	We have two replicas, first colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87260	Dear Mr. Zekanovic. You've said a lot about the quality of these products going out, getting high and there's no exact information on how much money has been invested and how much has been returned from these investments except we get some... rewards. We can talk about Cannes, but it's just a smoke screen. Here's what's more worrying me about this administration is giving itself the money you said. You have a senior law enforcement inspector who found irregularities in HAVC. You also have the Ministry of Finance of Irregularty, you have David, an audiovisual employee association has launched criminal charges against the HAVC at a higher level. You can tell there's something wrong with that. And how can this law go into fast procedure until these criminal charges and investigations are resolved? This is unimaginable to me because HAVC seems to be another example of Croatian creative accounting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87261	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87262	Dear and esteemed colleague Glasnovic. You're right, I'll repeat what I said earlier to the minister, I'd quite wonder if there was any money if there were a whole series of applications, criminal charges, and if the DORH were treating some associations I'd quite wonder if I'd put them to continue to distribute taxpayers' money. And there's no question here that gives us any doubt that there's something that shouldn't be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87263	Replica number two, colleague Culey STevo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87264	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, why are you talking about NN persons, so read this from the DORH document. says one of the many who now DORH studies that director from... Dalibor Matanović received a public call from HAVC in 2008 for... Mother of asphalt 3 million and 600 thousand kuna, that in 2011 for the development of the Zvizdan 150,000 kuna project, in 2012 for the film again Zvizdan 4 million and 800 thousand kuna, all in production of the house Kinorama. And then, as an artistic adviser in 2014 and 2015, he proposed to the AV Council audiovisual financing of three projects registered to the public invitation of HAVC which he also produced to Kinorama a feature feature feature film Alert at the green peak of 3 million kuna 200 thousand, so the feature feature film Ilirikum 3 million kuna. One of those same teams in the sacrifice is spinning and giving, giving.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87265	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87266	Dear colleague Culey, that's why you're here to complete me. You have the right, the name and the last name are people or persons or directors and producers who got the money, that's exactly the way it is. But here's one symptomatic thing, I didn't hear you read that the film Storm got money, the defense of Vukovar, the Flash, the Maestral, jump 1, jump 2, the southern move, the story of the Croatian soldier I didn't hear that those films got the money because they weren't made and they weren't in the HAVC programme, neither would they be, nor will they be. And that's why it's like we've ignored all the values of the Homeland War that were supposed to be the basis of our country, our statehood.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87267	Thank you. Now intervention on behalf of the promoter, Minister Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87268	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Honorable Parliamentarian, you've said a lot, very little about this law. The topic you've opened has to do with the copyright law. So I'm going to be free in part two of my exposure, even though I'm not an expert in copyright, but I know that law enough to make things clear. First of all, you say, a lot of them are rebelling, a lot of associations have, a lot, it doesn't mean anything. So it's very clearly defined, the Ministry of Culture, for decades, determines what representative professional associations are, they are represented, like those who can give tax certificates, participate in the process of selecting independent artists and in fact it's very clear which are representative professional associations. And numerous Croatian bodies are set up by different laws, relying precisely on these professional associations, and they are also defined on the Law on Cultural Councils, as well as on the proposings and in special laws, the Law on Museums, where the law appears, the Croatian Museum Society, the Law on Librarys, where the Croatian Library Society, etc. You said the Council should replace the ministry, all right, that's an attitude. I'll remind you, we had state cinema before the '90s. And even then, the state decided on every movie, every book, every exhibition, some allowed it to work, some that it didn't. Thanks to God in 1990, Croats have plebiscitely decided to want to live in democracy, such practices are no longer supported or promoted in democracy. So the freedom of artistic creation is something that we consider a great reach for democratic society, and I am convinced that when we actually look at this set of problems, then absolutely, every MP and every MP in this House will be the attitude that we have to democratisation the decision-making processes and remove any possibility of talking about any state influence. As for all of what you said, Croatian film directors' societies, ZAMP relations, etc. It's about copyright law and related rights. This law determines how collective rights are exercised and which are the bodies involved in the process. So, very briefly, I am now as you spoke ran through that law, he very precisely defines the rights of film producers, the definitions of film producers, the rights to retransmission, which you yourself mentioned and especially in Art 154 and that is the key, where whoever informed you and who informed you obviously did not inform you well. So there are two bodies. There is a collective exercise of rights organisation, there is a specialised legal person for the exercise of copyright and related rights. The collective implementation organisation is always an association, the association entrusted the collection and distribution of fees, the specialised legal person for the exercise of copyrights, which a company or another legal person. So there is no mechanism, you have to be very well informed about it, in which way, this, by copyright law, is a defined person, a specialised legal person, to exercise copyright, redistribute rights. The collective rights are defined by the laws, but it is also about the rights of each individual, it is a question of private law, so no public n sheep, no one is paying any public funds, it is about private rights and every private rights holder, it gives power to the association, and the association concludes, in a speech with a specialised legal person. The copyright law, precisely further defines, who are independent management entities, who are rightholders, members, as determined by the statutes, general assembly, committees. In Croatia, there are a whole range of associations, which collect collective rights, including the right of public lending and other rights, income from rights, costs of realization, share of rights in terms of further redistribution, i.e. investment in culturally valuable content. Everything is defined, but not by the Law that we are discussing today, but by the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, which was in reading this year with certain boundaries and supplements, and that was the moment when this topic was to be opened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87269	Before taking a stand on behalf of the club of representatives and independent lists, we'll do the first three replicas, if that's okay with you. So, the first one's a colleague of Zekanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87270	First of all, to understand Croatia there have been good films, exceptional, good films in the past period, so that it doesn't turn out to be film production, Croatia, catastrophic, that's the first thing. The second thing, the criteria of selecting roof and professional associations, are not clear, based on which criteria you choose some associations and others do not. Third thing, you said I didn't get the information right. You're consulting with your secretary of state, a respected colleague, Partle, which is whether that money is 30 million kn from the ministry or from, uh, retransmission money. Because I didn't realize, is that state money, so state money does. And the third thing in the financial report I have in my hand, it says that this very roof association, it gets 4-5 million kunas a year right from the ministry. And the third thing, the financial report I have in my hand says that this roof association gets 4-5 million kuna a year, right from the ministry, so it means money from the ministry, it's about taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87271	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87272	Dear Representative Zekanovic, I ask you, if we can stick to the facts, so first Croatian film directors' society does not get money from the Ministry of Culture, it receives money from the Croatian Audiovisual Centre. The percentage of funds returned from the collective rights system returns to 1% of associations with a very clear purpose that these funds are used to promote cultural diversity, which is one small percentage of money. All other new ones that are collected either by direct use of rights or by different obligations of collective rights and then by retransmission of the mission, are redistributed through this legal person I mentioned in the earlier address and I ask you, I cannot do anything but refer you to the Copyright Act if we are to have a debate on the Copyright Act, although I am not the minister in charge of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87273	Thank you. Replica number two, colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87274	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, here I would replicate that you may be a little and in vain trying to explain to your well-intentioned colleagues who are infected with one attitude that is constant and changing at all, so your efforts will be in vain but I think it's good for the citizens to hear what you think and what your intentions are, I support these intentions, I think this is an absolutely good law, that it's a good thing that you've extended it to the production of video games or computer games, or electronic games, so on that side just go ahead with it. As for war movies, there are good war films, let's say 55 is one such movie that HAVC also funded, I would like as many of our authors to appear with this topic and to faithfully convey what was during the Homeland War. Unfortunately, the ministry cannot be a creator of performances and films and scenarios, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87275	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87276	Thank you very much. As far as the audio-visual council is concerned, Minister, of course, that law is needed, but the fact is when we talk about copyright, when we talk about the Homeland War, that numerous artists, people who took part like that. Petar Malbaša himself made documentary films from his material about the Homeland War, the state or the HAVC, or any other institution has not given a kuna until we have a lot of questionnaires, in public appearances, even in this institution as a key body or association for the allocation of these funds and we see also applications based on the revision until the Homeland War is quite something, these people who have artistic rights that were recorded during the Homeland War on the ground war, these films are quite popular in our public, but the kunas from the state didn't get. What is it, then, is the association that doesn't encourage the Homeland War, people, witnesses of time, as cameramen, artists were on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87277	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Answer, Minister Ms. Nina Ouljen, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87278	Thank you. Dear Mr. Representative, as I said before, it is very difficult to answer when you say very much, some, those who have made, surely there are good decisions and wrong decisions, certain that some films have finally achieved success, others have failed, perhaps some have, perhaps some who have not had public funds have achieved great success, others who have had public funds, may have achieved great failure. So that's a pretty tough question and we who deal with culture and art, we know that it's one risk, what's good is that movies are made, HAVC funded them in one piece, HRT financed them in one piece, at this point ends one big feature film by our celebrated director, Anthony Vrdoljak, dedicated to General Gotovina, and we can only hope that through this system, there will actually be additional resources to make more of these films.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87279	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Ouljen Koržinek, for her reply. We continue the debate on the agenda point, or the united points. The next call came from a respected colleague, Stevo Culej. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87281	Your Honor, Vice President. Your Honors Minister. When we talk about culture about an important segment for all of us without culture there's nothing, but how we open any topic falls skeletons out of the closet. As a parliamentary representative, I can't help but talk about those knowledge, knowledge that our citizens, benevolents or villains bomb us every day. So when we look at that we had ministers who talked about sports that it was a swamp, and I met one in it, I can call it a single Robin Hood named Mamic, the people he stole, but he gave it to us. They steal, they don't give. Why am I talking about this and why is this an introduction? When I wasn't planning on getting ready at all, or talking about this topic, but I found a box full of material and it says like this from the media, 24 hours: the trial of Shipushu, the former culture minister, began. Why him? The material is there, it doesn't matter, people can find what he's talking about. Next again, the second title daily.hr again: Hrvoje Hribar rides again, untransparently sharing 130 million kunas from ZAMPA Ivo Josipovic. It's not a ZAMP theme, but there's a link to the producers. When it flies millions of me again, and binding to all that, to the skeletons from the closet and to the corruption and anti-corruption that we swear to and say that we have great results, and the results nowhere, where we talk about all these cases every day as representatives of Zekanovic, but there are no results anywhere. I also remember the cases of HAVC and Hrvoje Hribor and defense associations which are the same associations, although they are not funded as some other associations of the same or similar, but that defended him. To change the situation in HAVC, some councils, presidents, the vice presidents are positive, but if we change between the same frame in the same basket for 15 or more years, in that same story, we will again choose someone among the same or similar, as the Commissioner Pusic said, that it is impossible to find so many experts from the expert staff for such responsible functions, and we will again choose among those same associations and council members. So what do we get? Maybe the same result again, get off to ride, you know the famous one. He mentions about 30 million kunas, so I didn't find it hard to see what it was about. So there are also criminal charges, there are criminal charges to the DORH, there are also reports by the presidents of the Croatian Film Directors' Association Ivana Škorić. So she submits a request to the Ministry of Finance for financial supervision of the Croatian Film Directors' Society. So, on 27 October 2014, this lady was elected to the election assembly of the Croatian Film Directors' Association, Nova Ves, president of the company by the statutes, representing both society and responsibility. They replaced her after three months, probably because of her claim, which she had under the statute and law. He says this: Since the start of my term, I have been disabled in normal work by certain members of the board of directors, Hitrec, Jušić, Kusan and Secretary Branko Mitić, in a way that makes it impossible for me to see the financial documentation of the society to determine the financial situation. As president of the company and president of the board of directors, I am not familiar with her work, but I have her inquiry to the Ministry of Finance. It's probably transparent, it's got headers, addresses, signatures. When I look at it, it says: The Association of Croatian Film Directors report on balance, income and expenditure of non-profit organisations for the period from 1.1. to 31.12.2017. Suddenly it appears in the balance sheet of 30 million kunas. Where do these money come from, how did they come, who took the money, who took the interest, where did your money end? But in that balance sheet, point 1224 says: The remaining claims 29 million kuna, the item re-emerges this delayed recognition of income. So there are still these 30 million kunas that are controversial, these are the means of retransmission, as it says, I didn't even know what the tetransmission is. I'm not a financial man, but I know math enough for that. So at one point the balance sheet for the previous four years was 0 and now suddenly 30 million kuna. How did that come? Where did it come from? And it could have come from ZAMP. So someone has to be responsible for the money that comes and goes and that maybe some producers, some houses will look for in the future because these money was possible for something. Maybe some Chuck Norris will be looking for his tantium and his copyright for what we're looking at through it all. So, and here also has a criminal application against more for now NN persons, members of the Croatian Film Directors' Society from Zagreb. This reasoning on these applications says: DHFR representative Danilo Sherbedzija said on several occasions at DHFR's assemblies, especially at the Assembly in 2017, and wrote and sent to all members of the society a letter denying the existence of money described above and the amount of money collected for copyright from the digital repranse mission, showing multiples of the real ones claiming that it was a significantly smaller amount of 10 million kuna spent on competitions and other jobs. Well, there isn't. I read this how I got the papers, I don't know any different. We are particularly warning in a way that possible manipulation of the funds collected for the digital reprans mission in a way that could not be established by the rightholder. Who's the bearer of law? As much as Thompson gets the money, as much as Tina Turner, I'd really like to know if Tina Turner even got a few kunas, I like to listen to her, so I'd like her to have the funds going to her, too. It is suspected that the millions after 5 years went out of date and there would be DHFR funds spent on... There is doubt that in this way several HR laws have been continuously and intentionally violated in order to obtain the property benefit of individuals to the detriment of society, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's where we see that there's one link between HAVC and ZAMP. The famous law of our former valuable President Ivo Josipovic, who has made all the efforts to reach the law, we can call it the law of Ivo Josipovic, a musician who has helped many of his contemporaries in this way and who today live very well at the expense of all that he has made possible for them to return and return to them as the distinguished Mrs. Kusic says, in the next period of time that comes in a transparent manner, the orderly incomes a certain property benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87282	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. We have one replica, dear colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored Minister with Associates. Mr. Culey, you've been well describing what's going on on the scene, otherwise you should say that the law is welcome and these novelties are actually meant to improve the situation and eliminate all those negativity that they were. I would add as in all other legal assumptions and contracts that are being concluded, so should be used for the use of state resources guarantees of well done work, given that some dealing with lies, muds of the Republic of Croatia and Croatian defenders such as the movie about the Court of the Union, the massacre of the Court of the Union. Likewise, Mr. Sinisa Jurcic, now in Cannes, has rocked the entire HR and defenders, saying that journalists were killed, innocent journalists which is actually a lie because such a man he spoke of was absolutely not a journalist or was killed by Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87284	I thank the esteemed Mr. Djakic. Answer, colleague Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87285	Your Honor, Vice President. Col. Djakić, right when you say and according to his allegations, there are those who will certainly distort the truth and against the interests of our country, against the Croatian people, against the historical truth that we are witnessing both in the Assembly daily and on insults not only to journalists whose job it is, are asking for their 100 euros for the article, but also for parliamentary representatives, the type of Stazić, the type of Pupovac and those who act in Croatian society, and are still under heavy pay and overpaid for the damage they cause to the Croatian people. I also expect from our distinguished minister that in her efforts to improve this image of Croatian society and culture, she will come up with all the council, with all the presidents and vice presidents of possible presidents if they are caught in corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87286	I thank my esteemed colleague Cule for his reply. On behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Obuljen. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87287	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, this is where I came out on behalf of the promoter to send two messages. First, everything this government does and all the laws that we make in the House, in this House of Commons, we bring with us the goal of promoting each of us our activities, and the Government of our society and our country as a whole. I am pleased to see it in this debate today, and so it will be in all other proposals that will be made by the Ministry of Culture and all other resolutions. As a person and as a minister, I am extremely much in the debate and whenever I can, if there are certain objections while we are passing laws and we are proposing laws, I am instructing individuals, associations to write to you parliamentary representatives to make the debates in this house better, so that you too know what makes people who operate in the field of culture more difficult, but it is very difficult to respond to pamphlets that muddy the entire activity without any arguments. You've brought some papers today, you've been distributed some papers, and now you're talking, you're dropping skeletons out of the closet, someone's not responding, many associations, many are dissatisfied. If I can get out of this place, if I don't get out of my power, I would appeal to take care of what kind of data we come from and what kind of data we come from, then we put one whole activity, Croatian culture, artists, everyone who works in this area, into one such negative context. I'm Mr. Honorable Representative Zekanovic, trying to reasonedly explain to begin that everything that came to your assembly bench this morning is the subject of another law, it's the Law of Copyright and Related Rights. It is a law that allows 100 Croatian artists, not what is said in the debate, to be paid or paid, but to live, sometimes to survive, without public subsidies, many of our artists, painters, musicians, our theatres, our films, they would not exist. The Croatian word would not exist, Croatian culture would not exist, which is why we are here. The ministry I represent and the governments on whose behalf I speak, every application will always be answered, it must be founded, reasoned, it must have its head and tail. I'm very sorry that this morning we're faced with debates, something that is not measured at all to begin with, what we're discussing today, which is some sort of semi-information, obviously a certain dissatisfaction club. We know how associations work, people get along very often, so they have some who are dissatisfied, they can legitimately demand their rights. I appeal, thank you for all the arguments and all the suggestions, and all the advice, and I am glad that you have seen, in your discussions, how from the first to the second reading and with this law and with other laws, your attitudes, we have succeeded many. But, please, on behalf of Croatian artists, let us not deal with such flat-rate reviews, because these are people who do their jobs with honor, just as people do with all our other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87288	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Nina Ouglien Koržinek. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87289	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I am pleased and can begin to support the law that the minister presented, means the law on audiovisual activities, which is complemented and I can say in the beginning that I am sorry, that the same topics are always coming back, the same problems are opening up, as if this had become some kind of ideological law, and not what should be, which is that it supports one activity, a pulsive, which creates a high added value, which is very important for both cultural and economic me would say, the economic situation in the country. Because this law in the last 10 years has done a lot. And on the other hand, I would also like to give one more confirmation and support to all HAVC employees, especially the director, who has handled it the longest, Mr. Hribar, who has done really great things during his term of office, I would say one great progress has been made, related to the entire industry. Not only Croatia's Finnish industry, but co-productions that have returned to a large door in the Republic of Croatia, and then we can be witnesses of the worldwide production of Finland, which is recorded almost daily in the Republic of Croatia and 100 million kuna, which is thus achieved by it. And the incentives we gave as a country, they came back multiple times and allowed us to not only, on an economic basis, but I would say, both to the tourism and cultural agenda, become recognizable and recognized throughout the world. So I'm here to support you to keep on doing this job properly, regardless of the attacks of individuals, which, I don't know, why they're doing it, probably because they think that if they wake up the lowest passions in one part of the people, they're going to do something political, but believe me, they won't. Everyone who looks at us sees what's right here, what's wrong with it, and sees that around this topic they should agree on regardless of some political differences. As for the change itself and the clear definition, I am pleased to include themselves in law and video games, what I was saying earlier, where I personally witnessed that many countries have enormous incomes from that industry, from this business that annually grows at incredible rates. So at this point, we have companies in the world that have managed to generate billions of euros in revenue for several years, with several hundred employees. Here's what I'm going to say to some Finnish companies, like Super Village or Rowia, that they really did, that's fascinating when you see, that a hundred employees, they can have revenues, billions of euros, so they can make a dock, or a company, out of nothing, in two years, create, worth 2 or 3 billion euros. This is something to be supported in Croatia. Our industry is in the beginning, we have a very good I would tell the engineers, we have a good college in the City of Zagreb, we have a good background and every year, I see a few good companies that are reporting on the market and good that you put it on. Because that kind of thing and work, I would also say connecting people, because now we see that there are many, which is almost amazing for people to understand who haven't seen it live, for example, tournaments and sports competitions in video games, where live, it's followed by 10,000 people in some arenas, as if it were the world's largest, sports events. And that, in the years ahead, is probably going to be more and more and more, and it's good that you as a ministry and as a government recognized that part, and it's going to be encouraged, to allow people to express their creativity, to get employed and to work on a global market, because there's a very simple sale. Of course, there are those who are leaders, who take certain percentages through their channels, everyone who sells their products, but I think the market is incredibly large and accessible to those who want to do something useful. As for increasing incentives, I am also inclined to increase in less developed parts of Croatia, to make the profession more appreciated. What you've done, that every two years changes and the council's composition is also good, to show that it's not there, politics so crucial, but that it can, if the need is shown to complement and change. So on the other hand, I see this law very positively, and this already seems to me to be the second amendment I'm discussing in this term, and I want to give you the support of both you and your colleagues at the ministry in the beginning and don't get discouraged and I told you earlier, it's irrational. These people will never support you, no matter what you do, if you make 100 war movies, there'd be a grudge again, because there's no problem in the law, not in you, not in those who make movies, and we all know that the minister can't write scripts and make movies, but the problem is in those who say it, and that's how they set things up. We don't live here, now we need to be careful about other countries, but where democratic standards aren't the best, then you read the news, only the movies that the state wants, there should allow art and artists to express their creativity and to make something that will allow people to watch quality films and not even get into this kind of vivid reviews of Mr. Glasnović who took the right to comment probably as one great expert on the film industry and someone who can comment on both the scripts and what is being made, to comment on certain scenes from some films. I wouldn't take it for granted, because I'm not there enough I'd say, professional. I can only say whether I like something as a viewer or not, but Kino Lika is one of the better quality films that I've seen in Croatian, so on that side, congratulations to whoever wrote the script. I think he's got, it's Mr. Milan Zivkovic I think he's got both a reward and a reward for his script, so on that side go ahead, do what will help our country, be recognized as a free, democratic country, where artists can express their creativity through their work, not that the state serves them as... I even recognize in the invitations of individual MPs, who demand that this insinuation be lifted, that the state should do so directly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the contrary, I think that the HAVC should have even more independence than it has had so far, and in the amendments to the laws that you propose to recognize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87290	Thank you, dear fellow Mars, for this debate, we have several replicas, dear colleague Stevo Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87291	I congratulated you on the election yesterday, but I wonder if I was right. Praise Hrvojo Hribor, who was the chairman of the Money Sharing Commission at a certain time, and the state audit found that he shared the money non-transparently. So I'm surprised to you, which even in your party you found clients and corruption, and you didn't find in the part or the part of Hrvojo Hribar and in its long-term operation through HAVC. Especially should be suspicious where very large funds are spinning, which do not know the clue. The money trail is the only thing that can be traced, and it seems, in addition to all the charges, besides all the proceedings, the process, the trail seems to be lost underwater.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87292	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cule. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87293	Thank you very much. I'm not an auditor, I'm not an investigator, I'm talking about that piece of art and what the institution has managed to achieve in that period. And about how... came to Croatia during that period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So no one who follows that fah at least superficially, I'm not something deep inside now, obviously like you, but I'm following it, superficially. But I notice the shifts in the last 10 years about how many films are made in Croatia, what quality films are recorded in Croatia, how many revenues have been made in that industry and I can't help it, whether I personally liked someone or didn't like who the director of the institution was. So he would invite you to try to understand that nothing has created a very serious job, which helps Croatia and economically and tourism in every way possible, and let the investigations be done by those who do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87294	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87295	Well, it's amazing fellow Maras that there are still politicians and even in this House, who would set up filmmakers to make movies with and with what topic. I wait for the painters to advise which colors to use, which colors should not be used, because they are as smart as you see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87296	I would like to thank my colleague Stazic, the answer of my colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87297	I think that just once again, I will support the minister, she retains the direction to go, and resists these pressures, which in the old days really at the most banal level and even some countries, which are less democratic than Croatia do not think in such a way. So it's not us who should be working not only for artists, but for the whole industry, which is how we should work, because it's some time and what our colleague Glasnović said, what's called, Agitprop, it's exactly Agitprop, so I would expect my colleague Glasnović to fight the most, what he calls for, to abolish the HAVC, and that the attack of the minister, it's Agitprop, that the state determines what should and how it should be presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87298	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, you said well that art is hard to influence, but art also exists truths that are inevitable. The truths about the new Croatian history should certainly be what should beautify us in this House. Also in funding, whether we finance truths or lies. I don't know what Masakr film is for you in the Court. Is it art, lies or truth? Answer me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87300	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djakic. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87301	Comrade Djakic, there are some procedures to be followed, I am convinced that they are respected and the minister has laid down in law what the procedures are and how this should work. As for those who receive funds and tenders, I am convinced that procedures are respected. If someone broke something in this movie, I don't believe someone signed to get an incentive based on some scenario that was later changed. If that happens, people will pay back the money, I think that's how it's supposed to work. I'm not the one who can do it properly because I honestly didn't even watch that movie, which can evaluate it, but if something was made not in accordance with the rules and I don't believe that HAVC gave money for the movie before he read the script and everything that's in it and that someone cheated on her, and that no one reacted afterwards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87302	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank you for today's debate, pointed out once again in the Law on Audiovisual Activities and related to the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Film Co-productions, that we are convinced that we are improving the system, that we are laying new foundations to continue to develop this extremely important activity. This is actually the third if we can say iteration, for the first time we passed the law in 2007, the revision in 2011, today we adopt, or propose, a whole new Law on Audiovisual Activities. From all the debates, I actually get the impression that there is a high level of agreement that film art as well as many other activities actually contribute to the promotion of Croatian culture and, in general, to us as the Ministry of Culture, we create a prerequisite that in the Republic and this activity, creative individuals can be engaged in a professional way, that they can be properly rewarded for their work and that the state through its institutions and bodies gives them the support to enter into cooperation with other countries and other artists. I am sure that by developing every area of culture and art, we will actually make such a contribution from this sector to the development of this society, and I think that this is our common interest, and I thank you once again for the support you have expressed and for the concrete and useful proposals we have made to advance this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87304	I'd like to thank the Honorable Minister. We have replicas, dear colleague Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87305	Dear Ministers, as a member of the HAVC Management Board and today as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have always stood up for the development of Croatian film, for the position of HAVC as an independent institution, and in this respect you should take off your hat and congratulate you. You've been experiencing attacks for all this time but not because you'd be guilty of something, but because others wanted your place. They wanted you not to be the minister but to be ministers, so they used HAVC and you as a target. So they wanted to shoot you, we can be pleased that they failed and when they criticized other people's films and directors, they would at least look at "What is a man without a mustache" and talk about Hrvoje Hribar differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87306	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stazic, for his reply. There's no answer. Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87307	Thank you very much. Here's to the end, at the end of your presentation, I hope it doesn't hurt you, you have my full support in what you're doing, as far as HAVC is concerned, of course, some other things not, but we'll talk about this second time, given that today's HAVC theme, absolutely and the SDP counsel club will give you full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87308	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on these two agenda points. I am concluding the debate, thanking the respected minister and her associates for their reasons. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87309	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Audiovisual Activities, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 319. Well, here you go, pal Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87310	Well, thank you very much again. I would like to say that this bill allows members of the Croatian Audiovisual Council to find themselves in a conflict of interest and provide themselves with property benefits in a way to decide on the allocation of budgets to their own projects. That law provides that the Croatian film directors' society delegates one member to the Croatian Audiovisual Council, and since there are numerous applications relating to the demand for financial resources amounting to about 30 million kunas of the said company to the Croatian composers' society, as long as these allegations are not clear, we believe that the law should not enter into force. I repeat once again, I'm looking for a 30-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87311	I approve of the break. A colleague of Hasanbegovic also called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87312	Dear President, on behalf of the Independent Club for Croatia, I am also looking for a 10-minute break to consult on the action of a corrupt clienteleist, institutionalised octopus in HAVC, especially after news of several million frauds related to the work of the Croatian Film Directors Society. We would also like to give our colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community a chance to reconsider their conscience once again and to consider whether, after voting in favour of anti-illustration archival law, they would also vote for this corrupt or how counterpart Stier would say clientelistic Law on Audiovisual Activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87313	I'm approving a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 13 o'clock and 35 minutes. Party at 13.25pm. [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING AT 1 3:30 A.M.]] I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to take your seats, Vice President of the Parliament. Can we? Okay. We are now going to vote, in fact, before that we have amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and then after that we have amendments, only one Legislative Committee, so I would like to ask on behalf of the Government that the first State Secretary of State is manifested, and then the colleague Jelkovac will, on behalf of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87315	Mr. President. The amendments are accepted by both of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87316	Thank you. They become an integral part of the law, and then there's no need for obvious. So now we're going to vote. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on audiovisual activities. Please, let's vote. I find that with 83 votes for, 2 abstentions and 7 votes against the Law on Audiovisual Activities passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87394	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Museum Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 313 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in respect of Article 190 Rules of Procedure. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committees on Law and the competent Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I call upon the representative of the proposer, the Honorable Minister of Culture, Mrs. Nina Obulen Koržinek to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal of the Museum Law. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. In front of you is the final proposal of the Museum Act, which we refer to several months after the debate was held in this high house in the first reading. I would like to remind you that we have actually been a witness to the planned activities of the Ministry of Culture over the last year, i.e. a little more than a year of access to the audit, i.e. working on the proposal of a set of laws concerning the fields of archives, libraries and museums. Today after this debate, we will have a debate on the final proposal of the Museum Law, and last week, the Ministry of Culture put a draft proposal for the Library Law on Public Discussion. I refer to this intro because the adoption of these three laws is truly extremely linked and in one part conditional or if I can say so inspired by the work of a great national digitisation programme, whose actual text of the project we end in these days and which I believe will actually be applied from 1.8. It is a project that will be financed by EU funds in estimated value of probably around 80 million kuna and where, over the next few years, we will actually lay the groundwork both in terms of methodology and in terms of the normative framework, education, in order to make the digitalisation process with which many countries have already started and in Croatia speeded up and put more on a healthy basis. In particular, as regards the Law on Museums, I must mention that in the past 10 or 15 years, but already after the Homeland War, the Ministry of Culture through its resources, but also that many cities and counties have invested large funds in the reconstruction of museums, in the development of museum activities, in the development of the museum network, that, at the same time, through various professional associations and through inter-museum cooperation and international co-operation, has been continuously working on improving activities and that we actually have a network of institutions that are evenly distributed by the Republic of Croatia, extremely important, both for large and small environments, and which, in fact, after the adoption of this law and after the adoption of the national programme of development of museum activities, we actually want to enable them to operate in a more modern way. Currently in the Republic of Croatia 159 legal persons are registered in the official register of the Ministry of Culture, so obvious museums and galleries. However, there is one whole series of institutions, different legal entities that are created or produced, which have certain features of the museum, but under the current Museum Act, they could not actually be recognized as such and one of the intensities of this law is actually to recognise the needs, especially in smaller environments, that in one more liberal way, and collections that they possess and that are extremely important to present themselves to the public and manage them properly, to register them and to get through this system of museums that we want to strengthen the necessary professional assistance so that they can act as professional institutions. Another topic we plan to address with this law, for which we create preconditions in this law, and for which we cannot be satisfied, how some museums have responded to these needs so far. It is about the need to complete the process of inventorying the museum building and museum documentation. Many problems are, I can't go into detail here, which is why certain museums were unable to complete the process, but this law sets very firm deadlines for the completion of the inventory process, and in fact through our cooperation system, through the museum system, we will try to help those institutions who can't do it with their powers to end it. I would briefly point out some basic issues that are being regulated by this law. This is primarily the way and conditions for the operation of museum activities, structure, detour of museums, the acquisition and processing of museum buildings, the keeping of museum documentation, so all those issues that are important for questions about the activity. We also remain within the framework of the definition of museum activity, i.e. the museum building as one of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and from this we are actually relying on the principle that we must give this activity an adequate public need. The meaning of museums is defined as an institution that is at the heart of the museum's activities, the precise conditions of establishing museums are defined, they can be public, they are then established as institutions, but we are opening up the possibility that museums that are not publicly established and as other legal persons from which they are then led and adequate, are implemented adequate regulations regarding how to conduct financial operations and other status issues. What we are consistently introducing through all three laws, that is the definition of the museum of the religious community, you will see later in the day that the definition also appears in the law on archives. We also predicted in the Library Law. There are several reasons why, on the one hand, we want these valuable heritage institutions or organisational units that operate within a larger system to identify and give them first of all professional assistance and some professional supervision in order to keep the structure stored in such museums or archives or libraries adequately safeguard and process. The law prescribes insurance of public museum property, the emphasis is quite large in the law itself on the definition of museum activity in its public and cultural interest, not commercial activity. And here we set a very clear line between the public museum systems and all other museums that can establish other legal persons who would like to have some valuable private collections or are part of some companies or larger systems and there are certain structures they own, which they would like to present through the museum. The coordination mechanisms are foreseen, we place a great emphasis on the role of the Museum-Documentation Centre, it is an institution that exists for a long time, but so far it has not played as one that needs to coordinate the museum system, we want to strengthen their human capacities, we have given additional powers and we believe that through such a system we will help through this entire network of museums and through a system of parenthood and through the system of this transfer of knowledge to especially local levels will be constantly strained in efforts to raise professional standards of work in the museum. The law defines the work of the Croatian Museum Council as the highest advisory body of the Ministry of Culture. What I mentioned in the introduction of this law we are introducing a deadline for the end of the inventory at the end of 2020, it is important that we finally draw the line and know exactly what our museums have. But that's also important in order to end somewhere in the process of transitioning ownership definition, transfer of ownership where something will possibly be transferred from the state level to the local, regional self-government, etc. The professional criteria for the appointment of the body of public museums have been strengthened, and I would also refer to this previous debate concerning the bodies of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre in the Library Act which we also raise the criteria in the public debate. It should be clearly and unequivocally said here that although most of our institutions are chosen by really professional people who, regardless of changes in government at national or local levels, are professionally and professionally doing their jobs, there are some bad examples when in the bodies of the management of cultural institutions, and I must say, especially at local level, people who did not necessarily have any connection with these cultural activities or had the necessary competences. We think we're sending a good message if we raise standards and we're looking for a certain level of expertise to be participated in such bodies. The professional supervision of museum work is strengthened and the management role of directors is strengthened by a different proportion of the allocation of powers between the director and the museum council or the board of directors. The text of this final bill compared to the text that was in the first reading differs in one part, and to a good extent because of working within the working group, not because of the suggestions we received in the first reading. So in the definitions of the law we added along with cultural and natural heritage, it is important especially for natural museums, the concept of museums of the community, eco museums or independent collections is introduced. These are these smaller institutions that are mainly based on municipal or urban levels where we want to set little smaller standards and offer a system of professional assistance to enable such collections to be established at local levels, which contributes to the community itself, and contributes somehow visibility, attracts visitors and generates everything that museums as heritage institutions provide. The gallery is defined as a legal person or a natural unit within a legal person who does not have its own museum structure, but performs its museum activity by presenting a building that is owned by someone else and we have made certain adjustments consistently through the law regarding the issues of digitisation. What I must also point out as a very important one in our opinion is an important contribution to improving activities that may not be so understood for the general public or not being visible, but for the museum activity itself is actually a new way of accessing the inventory process and then registering the building as a cultural good. So far, we have had two laws, a law on museums, a law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods, and by the basis of these regulations, we have actually entered the same procedures twice, once the museums inventoryed the building, and then again more or less through similar procedures they had to register specifically in the context of the Register of Cultural Goods. We are now introducing an amendment in a way that the inventory books ex-legs, so according to the law, become an integral part of the Register of Cultural Goods through the Museum Documentation Regulation, will prescribe exactly what other elements must contain inventory books and, in fact, this set of documents becomes, in itself, the documentation that defines all these structures as cultural good. There will be a significant reduction in administration, the emphasis is placed on the expertise of curators and museum workers who actually care about this building, who process, who each of these objects take through their hands and are actually the most professional to determine whether or not it is a cultural good. In the end, what is important to this law very precisely defines what happens in the case of the sale, donation or replacement of the museum building and also the issues of accommodation and transfer of the museum building where we retain the authority of the Ministry of Culture for public museums, so the situation can occur that either for financial reasons or some others there is a requirement for a museum to be closed or that some builds be moved. We believe that if it is a cultural good, the Ministry of Culture, that is, the Croatian Museum Council, must be the one to give it the right word. I think I've pointed out all the most important elements more or less. Once again, I would just go back to this package of laws that we are making at this stage of our mandate, so the archives, libraries, museums, work on sublegal regulations that, under the Law on Museums and the Law on Archives will begin when the Parliament gives support and votes to these laws, it will be consistent and it is our urgency that all 3 of these laws provide a very consistent framework for this part of our heritage activity, so for the system of archives, libraries and museums, to bring them closer to the needs, the standards of today's time, the professions, to reduce administrative procedures, to increase and put more emphasis on professional actions and what professional employees do in the museum profession. At the end of this opening presentation, they cannot not mention that our museums are apart from being recognized in the Republic of Croatia as places that attract numerous visitors, these are institutions that in their midst are very often the centres of cultural participation from children at the earliest age through the activities of museum educators, through numerous manifestations that organize for different groups of our citizens, but they are also recognized internationally, from year to year receiving awards, here in a few days at a large European summit for the year of cultural heritage The Museum of Sinj Alka will receive a prize, a European prize. A few weeks ago, a small museum, a traditional eco-museum in Betina, the Museum of Wooden Shipbuilding also won the Grand European Siletto Prize, and in fact everything we do through this revision of the Museum Law, we are doing in a way to support the activity of these professionals and to actually find new sources of support and new sources of funding to continue contributing to Croatian culture and actually be an important component of our social life. I hope you will support this bill and with the attention of course we will listen to your possible comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87396	I thank the honourable minister for this further explanation of the final bill, we have two replicas. Dear colleague Marko Vesligaj, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87397	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, here I am extremely pleased that in this opening debate you have also made it clear that there has been a limit between public and commercial museums and that there have been some changes compared to the first reading of the law, so that museums are included as non-profit institutions, I welcome it. I welcome you as the head of a local self-government unit that has the same structure as the city museum. Here is the fact that museums are defined as non-profit institutions very much means, given that it also leaves a large space for the ability to report to EU funds that are very important and in a further way to express myself, the infrastructure equipment of museums, so through the opening of some new collections but also through inclusion in some programmes that can create a cultural offer for our smaller places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87398	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesligai. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87399	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you mentioned in your presentation, i.e. and it is good that this law defines both the registration, establishment and records of museums and generally museum buildings, and in your presentation, you mentioned the number of registered museums, but you also mentioned that you had a large number of very small institutions, some private collections, so I'm interested in the ministry if we know the number of these private collections of smaller institutions and will we encourage them to register with this law, to establish themselves as museums or how exactly will the ministry approach it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87400	I thank my colleague Bacic for this replica. The answer of the Honorable Minister Mrs. Ouljen, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87401	Thank you. So we have at this point, if I may say so, two registers. One is this eyewitness who runs the Ministry of Culture and is actually connected to the current Law on Museums that sets relatively strict standards that all needs to be met in order to be a museum in accordance with the law and there are 159 museums at the same time. On the website of the museum documentation centre is available a much wider register which includes various collections that may sometimes not even be, some are independent, they have different founders, so it is not just a private one, it is also some public collections that may be part of the university’s own. Our intensity to set up now, so we will bring in a sublegal act which we will define precisely which museums are registered under the Museums Act, which collections can actually be organised and operated in other ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87402	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, dear colleague Sanja Putica, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87403	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Culture Ministers, State Secretary and Assistant Minister. We have before us a final bill governing the conditions and way of performing museum activities, structure and part-time museums, the acquisition and processing of museum buildings and the management of museum documentation and other issues of importance for the purpose of performing museum activities for the protection and promotion of national, cultural and natural heritage. I will not repeat what you have said in your opening statement as to what is being changed and defined by this bill, I will just say that this final draft of the law, since the Ministry of Culture has respected almost all the proposals that came from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Law, as well as some proposals from the Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Parliament. What is seen in this bill when you read it in general is the openness and co-operation of the Ministry of Culture towards other institutions and other ministries. I can say a little subjectively that I am speaking from the position of a representative who comes from a city that has a large number of museums, museum institutions and galleries, and all in order to improve the quality of work and aims to fully meet the challenges of contemporary cultural activity, the preservation of heritage, and of course to meet the challenges of an extremely challenging tourist market, which museums themselves are an important part, and even today in the Republic of Croatia we can say that there are units of local self-government that have already seen the need to coordinate work between their museums and connect them to a single institution. I think this proposal for a law that comes in a package of laws of the Ministry of Culture, units of local self-government, but also museum institutions themselves, can recognise the enormous potential to improve their work, but in any case perhaps what they have so far been limited by law, it is applying to EU funds. This law also regulates the meaning of museums as an institution, the conditions of the establishment of museums and prevents the establishment of institutions that do not meet these conditions. You said yourself that the concept of a museum of a religious community is being introduced, insurance of public museum property, equipment space and all technical means used by museums is prescribed. The emphasis of course on museum activities of this law is placed on public and cultural interest, not commercial activity, but this commercial activity is also prescribed by specific provisions of this law, of course if it is compatible with the activities of the museum itself. Of course that means the sustainability of certain museum institutions. We also have some recent examples of units of local self-government in which certain structures, and I would say political options, are opposed to the continued subsidisation of museums by the city's county authorities. So here in this sense, this law allows museums to open up new activities themselves and to have perhaps stronger financial stability than they've ever had before. The work of the Croatian Museum Council as the highest advisory body of the Ministry of Culture has been defined, as you have said, and the tasks of public museums as heritage institutions have been detailed, and the invertarisation obligation to be completed by December 2020. There are, of course, certain consequences resulting from the adoption of this law, of course, being changed, we have already had it in our first reading, the name of the administrative body of the museum and the name of the administrative council is restored and conditions are prescribed for members of administrative councils who can be exclusively highly educated people, but also define the existence of a professional council, the management role of museum directors is strengthened by prescribing conditions in the selection of directors for occupations outside the museum profession. For the first time, a central parent body is introduced into the law, as we have already mentioned, a museum documentation centre which is the founder of the Republic of Croatia and is given the role of organizer and coordinator of the work of museums within the organized system. I would also say that this law is extremely important for regulating museum activities and the work of museums, which together with their curators and all employees of Croatian cultural heritage and national identity, and this law, supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club, will improve the coordination of the work of museums and improve the legal framework of their activities in order to remain in fact seats, which is the original meaning of that word of the museum, will be kept, studied and exposed to collections, but in the first place remain part of Croatian cultural heritage, its identity which not only means in the frameworks of our country but also in the European and world contexts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87404	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go, fellow Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87405	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers with Associates. So here in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP I say that we will support this Law in the second reading because it has in some way brought positive changes, and it has also respected those important remarks that have come from both sides and our club. So at the very beginning of this exhibition on behalf of the club, I would like to point out that in fact there is a Law that deals with one activity, a museum activity which, given how rich the Republic of Croatia is in terms of museum construction and everything that falls under museum construction. So, given how rich the land really is, it really deserves a law that will adequately follow exactly what we have. The Law itself must indeed in this sense, and much of it, and it is to speak and support and process everything that is worth preserving, everything that is worth showing and everything that we can really be proud of not only within our country, but also what is rich toward outside and what is actually one huge economic potential, so regardless of what we are here and in this reading we prefer, the expression of non-profit activity, we should say that it is actually one real potential that, with tourism and other activities, can really bring a lot to our country and in this sense. What I think is worth mentioning, and it is also important to commend museum workers in this regard because this is their contribution, the contribution of many directors and employees of the museum is that they are really trying to preserve our national treasure, to preserve and process the museum building, which is best seen through the level of visitation. We should really say that for a year, it is also research and some, therefore, based on data and here it is, let's say, a museum-documentation centre, but also others who have been exploring the visitation of museums, it is indeed on the rise. Especially when it comes to occasional settings, as well as events that follow really certain publicity. Of course, that's what we're witnessing, and we really see how important it is to invest right in publicity when we talk about, say, museum days, museum nights, that's all, that's all, all the events that really follow and increase, follow increased attendance. What is also positive, we can also see how citizens themselves. It's also the turn of the museum and the growing concern of all citizens. And about citizens who are less mobile, about citizens who have other difficulties, about citizens, about children, about citizens who have completely different needs. So, this is also positive and here, I am kind of reading this proposal that it wants to contribute to certain changes in the law itself and that really museums are available to everyone because the museum itself and the museum structure, if no one sees it, does not achieve that primary purpose. So that's what I really think is worth mentioning and it's worth the attention really and somehow commending when it comes to the work of all those who are in the system of museums and all those who in some way contribute to the preservation of our national treasure. As this is a second reading, we would also like to look at those provisions that have been adopted, which have now been experienced in this sense, in other readings, accepted and experienced positive changes, so I think it is worth mentioning that it is worth mentioning that it is accepted to put the word "non-profit" in the definition as a public institution, because it will, however, help museums to obtain funds through the EU so in those tenders where it has been decidated or explicitly noted. Of course, here we also have to look back on the fact that it doesn't arrive, so it's not all museums that have the conditions that deserve it either. So we would therefore prefer that, throughout this time, more care may have been taken into account, but here thanks to the EU funds and what we are now introducing into the law, we hope that through EU funds projects too, so that we will contribute to the conditions of work, the conditions of collection, preservation, processing of everything, the entire museum building in some areas really comes to that level that certain environments and museum buildings really deserve. What is next positive, which is the Ministry's intention to really help, in this way can really be read to those communities, those units, those museums that can't themselves, that is, the founder of the units of local, regional or regional self-government and cannot fully meet the needs of the museum itself, and therefore this is the intention that the state itself or the ministry should be involved in financing, in supporting what the state itself is, for example, the owner, any building, any space in which the museum works, any museum building itself. So it really has its own justification. What the following can also be accepted and considered quality, which is already said in the first reading, is quite a talk, the minister said at the moment. It is just an emphasis on the role of the museum documentation centre, it is indeed, now getting one concrete, one role of the coordinator of the legal person who actually coordinates the full work of all museums and we believe that by strengthening the very documentation centre, you will also contribute to a truly quality cooperation, or quality network of all museums, and this will achieve this goal which you yourself have stated and for which there is real space. And what's visible is that, I would say in a way that visiblely through the drafts of the provisions of the articles of the law, and it's also seen in the very part where you state the differences between the solutions proposed by the final proposal compared to the previous one, to the first reading. Even so, through only the first reading, it is somehow seen that it is through, that the directors of the museum have had a lot of influence on the very adoption of this one, on the very proposal, on the proposed, so the proposal of the articles and the law itself. So here is a new provision relating to professional museum employees employed in a public museum, and that they are not allowed to carry out jobs in the field of museum activity outside museums without the prior written consent of directors, which, of course, can be accepted because it is clear that when public activity is carried out and this is a public activity, in a public museum that, without prior written consent, individual museum employees cannot carry out their own activities and it is very, very clear. It exists in other laws, similar laws, therefore it is understandable. What we hope will, however, be clearer, clearer, and therefore we hope that there will not be certain, possible abuses of the legal provisions themselves. I also welcome this, and this is something that I have talked about and in an individual debate in previous reading, and it seems to me that the fines have been eased which somehow I recognize one intention of the promoters to still go in terms of themselves encouraging work, hence encouraging workers, less to go in terms of punishment and bans and punishments. So this is also something that seems more positive. Here is the respect, therefore, by respecting or commending that you have accepted certain remarks and we believe and hope for positive changes, that the work of museums will be strengthened especially in smaller local communities, that there will be greater visibility among citizens, that there will be even more visitation and promotion especially in terms of tourist visitation. So here's another club of SDP advocates will accept and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87406	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Alfirev. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87407	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate, here we are today discussing a law that comes to our second reading, but without greater ambition. This is correct law, there's no doubt about it, but it's a model problem. So Croatia cultivates traditionally an outdated conservative model of museum activity and in fact it is a paradigm by which the museum is only a place where the collected heritage is kept and very little is done on its popularization, very little is done to place and heritage in the function of today's life, so if you will, ultimately, and perform an economic activity that will not harm it but can benefit it. There were some I'd say shy attempts to access museum activities from one side, more modern. But when we see the state of the museum network in Croatia, then it's no wonder we don't have the strength for something stronger. However, says the Ministry of Culture's strategic plan to soon expect us to adopt the National Plan for the Development of Museum Activity, I hope that this is an opportunity to actually capture a more serious, ambitious and to open windows and doors of Croatian museums according to new ideas and new concepts, concepts and settings that will be models of open and not closed institutions. We now have about 300 museums, galleries and collections in the register, of which 156 museums at different levels are based on founders. In these museums, there is a fascinatingly few artifacts, only 5.8 million in just over 2500 collections. What is the real state of affairs is witnessing you information about the inventory of the building, so 59% of the construction of Croatian museums, galleries and collections has been entered into the inventory. And not to mention how much construction was done, how professionally it was done, by publishing professional articles, by presenting, there is a situation far, far worse. Namely, no one has an obligation nor a curator to publish any professional publicist without talking about scientific works. And under such circumstances, the most normal thing is that a museum can function as a closed shell where nothing happens, where there's a permanent set-up set up 28 years ago, where they come in if they're really let go and they see something, and we stop there. On the fingers of one hand you can list the Croatian museums that have gone three steps further, which have gone into a completely different concept, open, digitalized if you want or virtual, which communicate with their surroundings and if you want with the audience in general, in a modern, understandable, efficient, clear way. Unfortunately, I say on the fingers of one hand you can count them and about that much you will count the slaughter museums have been involved in some EU-funded projects in all these seven or eight years. So she's totally asleep. There was a provocation that wanted to drive the museums a little bit clean. In a situation where capital investment especially for culture has been cut apart, many museums have actually come into a very tight space where they could not count on any extra investment and in fact it was a brilliant opportunity to open up according to the opportunities offered by the EU funds. The cardinal few understood that call, included their capacities, and did something. Can we believe that one of the fundamental Croatian museums and that is with us that we are drilling in the chest with our cultural heritage and great love for our past, it is the Museum of Croatian Archaeological Monuments in Split. For years, and I think it's now what, 20 years, 20 years doesn't have a permanent setup. As a result of the war events, everything is stored in deposits, until today no new setup has been created and presented, which is a museum that keeps some of Croatia's most important artifacts, especially medieval heritage and, of course, copies, the replicas of what we consider to be the ultimate of our monumental plastic. In such circumstances, the whole situation should have been shaken and seen what we really wanted. Do we want to finally discuss Croatian cultural heritage in a proactive, modern way that will present itself to the world? If you want to end up with your own citizens. I'm sure 100% that 9/10 Croats don't know what Viseslav's coffin looks like. That 99 out of 100 Croats don't know what it says on the Baška board. But we're going to light people up against the Cyrillic very easily. If I didn't talk about others, I would say, with capital works of Croatian cultural heritage, especially monumental. Do you know that only 8% of the surface of Salona, the capital of the great Roman province has been explored so far? Only 8%. And that's 5% investigated by Don Frane Bulic more than 100 years ago, and 3% was investigated under the force of opportunity when a Split bypass was built, or a Solin road. There were more people living in Salona than in Pompeii and Herculaneum together. It is a similar situation in all the great ancient cities on the Adriatic coast. So the story of museums must be a story of the overall care of cultural heritage. on how to conduct financial operations and other status issues. What we are consistently introducing through all three laws, that is the definition of the museum of the religious community, you will see later in the day that the definition also appears in the law on archives. We also predicted in the Library Law. There are several reasons why, on the one hand, we want these valuable heritage institutions or organisational units that operate within a larger system to identify and give them first of all professional assistance and some professional supervision in order to keep the structure stored in such museums or archives or libraries adequately safeguard and process. The law prescribes insurance of public museum property, the emphasis is quite large in the law itself on the definition of museum activity in its public and cultural interest, not commercial activity. And here we set a very clear line between the public museum systems and all other museums that can establish other legal persons who would like to have some valuable private collections or are part of some companies or larger systems and there are certain structures they own, which they would like to present through the museum. The coordination mechanisms are foreseen, we place a great emphasis on the role of the Museum-Documentation Centre, it is an institution that exists for a long time, but so far it has not played as one that needs to coordinate the museum system, we want to strengthen their human capacities, we have given additional powers and we believe that through such a system we will help through this entire network of museums and through a system of parenthood and through the system of this transfer of knowledge to especially local levels will be constantly strained in efforts to raise professional standards of work in the museum. The law defines the work of the Croatian Museum Council as the highest advisory body of the Ministry of Culture. What I mentioned in the introduction of this law we are introducing a deadline for the end of the inventory at the end of 2020, it is important that we finally draw the line and know exactly what our museums have. But that's also important in order to end somewhere in the process of transitioning ownership definition, transfer of ownership where something will possibly be transferred from the state level to the local, regional self-government, etc. The professional criteria for the appointment of the body of public museums have been strengthened, and I would also refer to this previous debate concerning the bodies of the Croatian Audiovisual Centre in the Library Act which we also raise the criteria in the public debate. It should be clearly and unequivocally said here that although most of our institutions are chosen by really professional people who, regardless of changes in government at national or local levels, are professionally and professionally doing their jobs, there are some bad examples when in the bodies of the management of cultural institutions, and I must say, especially at local level, people who did not necessarily have any connection with these cultural activities or had the necessary competences. We think we're sending a good message if we raise standards and we're looking for a certain level of expertise to be participated in such bodies. The professional supervision of museum work is strengthened and the management role of directors is strengthened by a different proportion of the allocation of powers between the director and the museum council or the board of directors. The text of this final bill compared to the text that was in the first reading differs in one part, and to a good extent because of working within the working group, not because of the suggestions we received in the first reading. So in the definitions of the law we added along with cultural and natural heritage, it is important especially for natural museums, the concept of museums of the community, eco museums or independent collections is introduced. These are these smaller institutions that are mainly based on municipal or urban levels where we want to set little smaller standards and offer a system of professional assistance to enable such collections to be established at local levels, which contributes to the community itself, and contributes somehow visibility, attracts visitors and generates everything that museums as heritage institutions provide. The gallery is defined as a legal person or a natural unit within a legal person who does not have its own museum structure, but performs its museum activity by presenting a building that is owned by someone else and we have made certain adjustments consistently through the law regarding the issues of digitisation. What I must also point out as a very important one in our opinion is an important contribution to improving activities that may not be so understood for the general public or not being visible, but for the museum activity itself is actually a new way of accessing the inventory process and then registering the building as a cultural good. to have someone who's an expert in marketing be leveled in position with him. And these are the people who sell the museum product, give an opportunity to other professions, and hang on to some professional professions to write more, publish, study, digitize, catalogue, inventory. We will support this law for you, but we hope that in the national plan for the development of museum activity you will have the strength to step up and open Croatian museums to the world and that we have them, that we can be proud of them, and not that we actually smell dust and memitivity is the only experience when we come out of 90% of Croatian museums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87408	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beus Richembergh. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Nina Obulen Koržinek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I have now reported on behalf of the motion for a debate before individual debates concerning the various proposals tabled by the representatives' clubs, especially regarding the last intervention of the distinguished representative Beus Richembergh. In fact, you obviously have a lot of fragmentary information about the activities of the Croatian Museums, so today I perform here not only as a representative of the Government, but I think my duty as Minister of Culture is to represent and the activities, experts. It doesn't seem your assessment that our museums are conservative. I really couldn't agree with that, and I would like to say in the introduction about this normative optimism, that is, to what extent we need to regulate certain activities by law. It's our opinion, and I think it's somewhere and through a debate with the profession, clearly emphasized, that in fact the laws must edit what is necessary to be regulated in laws. Everything else needs to be encouraged by other measures and other systems. And on that trail is this, I'd say, one simpler text of the law than many descriptive regulations we've had before, which to some extent we wouldn't have implemented very quickly. You say you need more programs, I agree. But what is important is to always send as a message, not only to us as a ministry that finance the activities of the museum, but also to local and regional self-government. More programmes mean more isolation, more will be earned, but museums and institutions in culture cannot earn funds without ambitious investment. You mentioned an exhibition that is currently in Klović's court. We had such Croatian exhibitions that attracted a large, very large number of visitors, but in their source there was a large investment public and that is something that everyone must be clear about. These museums are not, public museums are not companies that will earn themselves, except those in some tourist destinations where visitors have their own position. I would not agree that on the fingers of one hand we could count the museums that attracted funds from the funds, here a few days ago at Mrs. Bedeković's in Pitomaca we opened works from Interga to finance the reconstruction of the house of Petar Preradović, from these small collections to large museums at this moment the project of the restoration of the small Roman theatre at the Archaeological Museum in Pula is being funded, the funds are being funded, documentation is being prepared for a whole series of museums, a large museum in Virovitica is being restored to European resources and I could now have time given a whole series of examples. As for the issues of expertise, promotion, calling, we believe that this should not be a trade union issue. The award should be awarded by the promotions of those who work and contribute to museums, and the whole set of criteria includes criteria for the publication of professional and scientific works, but what we want to promote with this law and the fulfilment of the basic activities of curators, which is to invert and process construction. You mentioned the financing and presentation of Croatian cultural heritage abroad, and here I think we have a lot of good examples, I will mention in 1999, a capital exhibition of Croatian heritage in the Vatican Museums as one of the first major steps of Croatian museums outside the borders and then a series of exhibitions that we had throughout the European countries and in the overseas countries, in many projects and personally in my former functions I participated, of course always in accordance with our capabilities. And, we have a few major problems, and now there is a choice for the new director of the Croatian Archaeological Monuments Museum, we set as the main criterion for the realization of the permanent setup, we have a big problem with the Croatian historical museum where we are actually one set of questionable actions in the former administration blocked this initiative, but I believe that this law creates a basis for better action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87410	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Nina Ouglien Koržinek. We have several replicas, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87411	Madam Minister, I expect you to defend the ESNAF from your portfolio and that's fine. Only when you're defending them, let them have it back for you. You know this formulation of how many European funds used, it comes from your document called the Strategic Plan of the Ministry, here exactly 44 projects are listed in which museums participate and at the level of half preparation, and only the realization of half. You mentioned an extremely important word of investment, so all the big exhibitions, all the big projects were really based on high investment. But that's exactly what it's all about, so it needs to be taken as an investment, not as a consumption. So if something costs 6 or 7 million kunas as much as it costs, now I'm talking about the permanent layout of the Croatian Archaeological Monuments Museum in Split, who is it that's going to meet and say it's too much money?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goran Beus Richembergh. The answer of a respected minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87413	Thank you. I think one thing we just need to clarify, the museum system as well as the other systems is highly decentralised. Of the aforementioned 159 museums that are in the eyewitness of 22 museums, the founder of the Republic of Croatia, all others are local and regional self-government. We need to be aware of what fiscal capacities are, and the ministry is helping with its own resources and helping to prepare projects from European funds. Of course we'd like to be able to do it much faster, much more, much stronger, but I think that if there's any activity that shows the steps, the Museum of Ancient Glass, the Museum of Apoxyomena, the Museum of Krapina, the Vukovar Museum with annual awards, previously mentioned Museum in Betina, the House of Batana, the Ogulina House of fairy tales, I'm changing from big national museums to small, great examples. We have to congratulate them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87414	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87415	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, Madam Minister, you said that museums can be more or less profitable only in tourist destinations, which is how I understood in your presentation. And I think that definitely the museum can be the driver of destinations, so exactly the opposite. I'll remind you, you probably know but not yet that destination is so developed but these days it's been marked 200 years, so the transfer of relics from Venice to the largest, therefore the largest collection of relics in Europe, so it's in the church in Vodnjan. Now there is a project, so construction, construction museums where the local community will be involved, hopefully the ministry, there will also be some demands for you. And I think that's exactly the moment when we can recognize that museums can also be the drivers of one destination because they will certainly complete one entire tourist offer on the peninsula. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87416	I thank my esteemed colleague Kleman. The answer of a respected minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87417	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I may hardly be in speech, but I hardly used the word profitable, very hard. Two museums in the Republic of Croatia, the Archaeological Museum in Pula and museums, Dubrovnik Museums are the only two institutions that fully cover their costs and by your definition would be profitable. They're absolutely drivers of development, but what I said is there's no such engine of development without initial investment. So it can't be expected that the museums themselves will be in that definition that you mentioned profitable. I'm glad that in Vodnjan, this phenomenon is going to open up to the public, and there's a trail of our thinking in general about the museums of the religious community, so it's also about the structure that actually owns the church. And we are now creating a legal basis so that they can open up and contribute to the community.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87418	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. We move on to individual debates, respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic. He's not present. Dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87419	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, here's my regards to the Minister and my associates. For now, a lot has been said about museums, museum activities in the context of the final proposal for museum laws. I'm going to use this time of some things maybe a little repeat and emphasize a little bit, and among other things, here's what I think is important points of this law specifically emphasized. First of all, when I read this law, then somehow the museum is perceived through this law, primarily as an institution in the service of today's modern society and its development and with the aim of acting naturally of public interest and with the aim of making the museum a cultural institution open to the public and, therefore, in this sense, the museum's activity through this law is governed by the emphasis on public and of course on cultural interest in terms of representation and promotion, then the protection of national, cultural heritage but at the same time through this law is ensured and carried out commercial activity. I believe by this law that nothing is cemented, nor should it be cemented. And what I find important pointed out is that through these legal provisions the carrying out of the commercial activity of the museum does not conflict with the primary and dominant activities of the museum and there is, above all, protection and then promotion of national, cultural heritage. What I think is still important is the fact that through the provisions of this law, the possibility of additional financing of museums from other sources is opened whether they are European funds, whether they are other sources, which I think is a sign of the flexibility and adaptation of this law of time in which we live. And I repeat again the opening of the possibility of valorising cultural goods as an economic category, not forgetting the primary activity of museums, which is the protection of national cultural heritage. And, of course, on the trail of experience from other developed European countries, we must be aware of the fact that we live in the 21st century and that museum activity should be opened to the public and that valorisation of our cultural goods should therefore be possible. And in this sense, the museum should primarily be a place of awareness raising and, of course, the sensitisation of the public for the responsible and sustainable use of cultural heritage as a cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia, and I see one important role of the director as not only the director of the person who, as I say, manages the museum of an institution that represents a collection of cultural goods in a particular area and slowly transforms itself as it was said in a dusty set of something that we have here in the museum but is increasingly being kept in place by our directors, and I believe that they are doing so, although I believe they are doing so in the manners of good managers in the culture of the museum institution towards the public and are opening up to something that we can call the valorization of cultural goods. And in this context, I am particularly pleased that Kleman, through one of his replicas, pointed out that museums can indeed be and should be the drivers of destinations, especially if we have in mind that cultural tourism is one according to the data in the fastest growing tourist sectors and of course we must bear in mind the integration and need of museum and tourism activities so that museums through their activities can obtain certain resources that I do not consider to be the only one. I still think museums must have the necessary support from their founders. What I think is extremely important in this proposal is the introduction of the Museum Documentation Centre as a central body which also organises and coordinates the implementation of parent activities within the museum system, collects, processes, publishes information about museums, museum buildings, collections, documentation etc. What seems very important to me is the collection and processing of precisely museum statistics and what is very important here I stress, the keeping of eyewitnesses and public and private museums in the Republic of Croatia with complete documentation. Introducing an institution, I will call it the Museum Documentation Centre for the first time ever in a legislative regulation that regulates the museum's activities, and it seems to me that the Museum Documentation Centres will play an important role in the organization of museum activities. What I must especially highlight is special attention in this law dedicated to the development of museums and museum collections in smaller environments. I'm glad that you pointed out an example from my community, and I come from a small local environment that I'm very proud of, and we think we have something to show for it, but it has to help us. So correct me if I could possibly solve 158 museums we have founded by units of local self-government and in these 158 museums we have very important, significant traditional collections that mean very little environments. And I think it's a good, good provision for Article 17 that says that the founder of a museum can be not only a unit of local self-government but a legal person owned by a majority of local self-government units where it's called so-called. museums in composition. It is precisely an opportunity for small environments that cannot establish independent museums to establish their original collections that, of course, need to be under professional supervision. And I expect that through a regulation that will regulate the minimum conditions for the establishment of the museums, ministers will be allowed and made it easier to set up not only and establish a museum activity but rather to carry out adequate expert supervision that is very important in the first steps and, of course, to enable or ensure their sustainability. So the example of my environment that I was talking about in Grabrovnica this year is about the 200th anniversary of the birth of a poet, Peter Preradovic, who was born in Grabrovnica next to Pitomaca, is going to rebuild a complete home house which is an old border station by its type of construction, an investment from 850 thousand euros and that is where we intend to set up a modern multimedia collection of an open interactive type, which is then exactly what we want to achieve, that our museum establishment is the driver of a tourist destination in our area and that we also allow this investment that we invest in the complete restoration of the home to return. But in a way that we return it to ourselves rather than to co-finance the work of our collection of our museums, the maintenance of our home is also a part of our municipality and county, so both local and regional self-government, because I agree with the conclusion that museum institutions, all institutions in culture, must be turned to commercial activity, but that it is not a cor business and that they do not need it, must not and cannot be based solely on commercial activity precisely because I consider them institutions of particular interest in the state and national goods of every state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87420	Thank you, too. We have one replica... Mrs. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87421	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague mentions just the action and importance of the very cultural heritage and museum that will be the trigger and the trigger. So here I think the minister is also a witness that we are actually a very rich archaeological area, but also a museum because it's being cherished from a time long ago, so from a permanent exhibition of church art, here's to the newer Archaeological Museum, the National Museum, and then here's the newest Museum of Ancient Glass that has shown that really synergy can be done by education and also by how to learn about the values that we have. So you need to cherish it anyway, which I can see is actually evident in the strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87422	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond? Thank you. [[Intruder: It's all clear.]] And now in the end, the last individual debate Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87423	Thank you, Vice President. The minister of law you passed in front of the council is good, quality, smart, the kind of laws they should be. What's both good and smart, which doesn't work, and maybe you shouldn't spend too much on it. Artistic works, however, are not only in museums, many of them located outside the museum, in the open, and many of them were killed. I want to say something about them. Here I am looking at Vice President of the Parliament, in Istria, there has been no devastation of the monuments, there are monuments preserved unlike other parts. Ours between '45. and '90. About 6,000 monuments were erected, bust, sculpture, different artistic values, but they were all works of art. From 1990 to 2000, they were destroyed, devastated, mined, destroyed, exactly 2964. Some of them have been restored to about 400 anti-fascist features, mostly those less artistic values, even several more significant among them. I'm going to spend a few minutes now to mention some of the most valuable ones that haven't been restored. A monument to the victory of the Slavonia people, the world's great sculptor, Vojin Bakic, who was shot down in '91. years in the village of Kamensko. When a nation has such a sculptor as Vojin Bakic, then it can be extremely proud. I can understand the frustration that happens at the time of the war because, she is, the frustration follows war events, I can understand and mine, the destruction of monuments, what I can't understand is that after the war and that years after the war, such valuable monuments are not renewed. Bakic's monument to the uprising of the people of Banija and Kordun on Petrovo Gora is the most monumental thing that was made in this type of plastic. It's not just a monument, it's a museum inside, it's a more functional building that, the devasting started in the '90s, especially intense was '95. And it continues today. So a monument that was covered in inox plates that people take off and take home, I guess they need for their chickens. But that it couldn't be preserved and that it couldn't be restored. A monument in Opuzen Stjepan Filipovic, the work of Mira Vuce, I don't know, I guess it was taken on billions of photographs during World War II but this one, the only one, is at the entrance to the UN building as a symbol of Fascism resistance. It's so striking and so was the monument in his Ouzen, he's from Obuzen, he's been killed in Valjevo, he's been executed there, there's a monument there but no, we haven't restored in Obuzen. It's good for the UN and it's bad for Ouzen. I think that, you know, barbarism has no faith, no nationality, barbarians are recognized by barbarism. That's what you ministers will know best because your city was killed in barbaric attacks. So hitting Straduna with a grenade can't be called anything other than barbarism, the worst kind. A town like that goes shelling. Well, that's all barbarians can do. We restored him as much as we could. We gave him back his Renaissance beauty. But since others have treated us so barbaricly and why do we barbaricly treat ourselves? Why don't we rebuild what's down? The work of Antun Augustincic. So who hasn't heard of Antun Augustincic since '64? years on Vis. It was removed in '94, it was called "We will not, we will not give." Well, then another Augustine, well, that one's in Livno, down in '92. For years, it's in another country now, so we can't rebuild there, at least we can, but good. These are monuments of antifascism. But what about Nikola Tesla in Gospić? Fran Kršinić's work? So the replica of that monument is located on Niagara, in Niagara and we have brought it down in Gospić and we have not restored it until now. There he is in the gliptotheque. But it will not be the local authority of HDZ to return to Gospić Nikola Tesla. A man who said he was proud of his Serbian background and his Croatian homeland. We're barbarians, we're barbarians, and we're gonna stay barbarians until we fix it. We declared in Parliament on July 10th the day of Nikola Tesla. And we did it right, that's what we should have done. But let's not return the monument to Our Lady because there's some local leader out there who doesn't, so forgive me, that's unacceptable. And finally, during the Homeland War, a lot was stolen from both the Republic of Serbia and taken to Serbia. Much was returned during Minister Vujic's time. What's going on? It came in a very good state, in a preserved state. Nothing was destroyed, it wasn't devastated, they came back. They took it, they stole it, so they gave it back the good part, not everything. Well, now we have to work to get what was in our museums back. Well, that's a matter of diplomacy. It's a job for the president, it's a job for the Prime Minister, it's a job for you too, Minister. Not lightly, probably not lightly. But if Minister Vujic could do anything else about it because it's our treasure, we leave it to our children, our grandchildren. That's what we recognize each other for. And as far as we're working on it, we're showing that we care about culture and heritage. So, in this respect, you don't have to argue, but you need to talk, and you need to work on it, and I'm asking you, I know how much you and when you praise the muzeals do it right, we have great musicians, and that's one activity that we can be proud of, but here's the minister, I'd ask you to personally take up some of the monuments, at least they're the most valuable renovations to show that we're not the same as the ones who destroyed your city and to return our art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87424	Thank you, too. Mr. Culey has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87425	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, I am truly raised spiritually by this presentation of your cultural heritage from the past, and especially by those who may have fallen honorably for the performance of their assignment. Especially the heroes of the Second War, whose heroic deeds we don't know about. We weren't witnesses of that time. And we have monuments in the design plan very much, but the question is whether it will come to the turn of all those that you have listed in history so that time will show. And in your home village, In which you were in Podvinj there is one monument to the wolf. Zivkovic who disappeared at the time...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87426	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. I'd let you talk all day, but time's up. Answer, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87427	I was talking about the sculptors, about Warrior Bakic, about Antun Augustinčić, about Kršinić, about them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87428	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate... Excuse me, ma'am. [[You can't hear it.]] I'm deeply sorry. Here you go, final word Mrs. Nina Obulen, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87429	I'm thanking you. I would first refer to this last debate by the honourable representative of Stazic and I am sorry that he has to leave. An extremely relevant topic, but as in the case of some of this morning's topics, is not related to this Law, so the problem that the respected representative Stazic mentioned concerns the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and the Owner's responsibility for the state of cultural goods. Here we have, we're talking about the period in the first row, we need to remember, the period of the Homeland War when numerous monuments are torn down, deliberately devastated, destroyed, a number of cultural goods taken from the Republic of Croatia. We are still still running the process today to end the issue of the return of cultural goods. At the same time, there will be opportunities for discussion and when we are in this high home with the Law, amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, that the Ministry of Culture has made one effort to carry out a revision of the register in the part in which we regulate the definition of cultural heritage, memorial heritage, and especially with regard to monuments that are related to individual historical periods, we generally need more awareness in society about the fact that cultural heritage and monuments must be preserved regardless of what our intimate or political or other relationship to the period that they observe. It's not the monuments' fault if we agree or disagree and these are some principles that, I'm sure by developing a social consciousness, we'll come to the realization that cultural heritage is just that. It is a heritage, it belongs to the time in which it was created, and it is thus the way it should be determined. What's our theme today, it's a question of the building that's located in museums, which is muzealized. We have listened with attention to all the debates, we believe that although some may have been a little more controversial than some of the solutions we have offered, that all these discussions have shown that we have a broad consensus on the importance of the museum, about the role that museums play in Croatian society, and then especially in every local community where we establish museums or collections. There have been a lot of proposals related to standards and investment in building security, in processing, in presentation, I would also mention here once again the process of digitisation, the issue of professionalism, we want to set such standards through funding systems and at national and local level verify those museums and those museum employees who are responsible and professionally doing their job. And what I might mention in the end, we often perceive museums as important generators of local community development, thinking primarily of tourists and visitors. My deep belief is that we must give equal attention to the role of museums as a driver of our local community and museums must be such institutions as to attract visitors regularly, and here I think primarily of our citizens, children, young people who through the work of museum educators, who through a number of pedagogical activities and workshops, educational programs offered by museums actually don't only meet these museums, they meet our culture, our history, they are strengthened as citizens, as individuals, and they will tomorrow with awareness of the value of the heritage that these institutions keep, be active citizens and active participants of various social processes. In this sense, the role of the museum as one of the places that educates young people, which teaches a young man about the value of heritage is immeasurably important and therefore, among other things, it is important to find a modus and I believe that through this new law it is recognised that we place an emphasis on it, that even in such smaller environments we allow the establishment and operation of the museums. I thank you again for all the debates and I hope you will support this final bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87430	Thank you, Madam Minister, you have one replica from Mr Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87431	Thank you very much. Minister, as far as cultural treasures are concerned, you didn't answer, I heard the question, what about our cultural treasure in Serbia, do you have a list, as long as you and the MVEP have reached out, whether teams exist, because we see that red flowers have been poured out, was Vukic here in Zagreb, so I don't know if everything is returned, whether there are any more cultural treasures in Serbia that were alienated in the Homeland War, a very important question. As far as the museum is concerned, I believe that museums can be organised through curriculative reform together with you in cooperation to visit the Sinj Museum which is here and awarded in Brussels, you have just told me that they will receive the prize and be obliged, such a museum as in Vukovar to visit the museum and hospitals and everything that happened in the war, so it should be an obligation for all schools in the curricula to visit these museums, all the excursions and thus to educate our children about our history and not only to be dead property. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87432	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87433	Dear Mr. Representative, so many times in this term and in previous mandates we have communicated the process of returning cultural goods, it takes place through an interstate commission, a little more than 30,000 items have been identified when lists were made, of which I do not now have accurate data, 29 000 and something returned, we through an interstate commission from the Croatian side, led by Mr. Mr. Branka Schuld, longtime director of the MDC and assistant cultural ministers in many mandates. So, the rest is to return about 1000 artists, the next meeting of the interstate commission takes place from 5 July to 7 July in the Republic of Croatia, and I expect the dynamics of return to be determined, the precondition for return is restoration and this process of all happiness, unlike some others, is successfully being brought to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87434	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87435	Final proposal of the Museum Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 313. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendment was concluded by the Committee on Legislatives, I say the Secretary of State to be seen on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87436	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87437	It becomes an integral part of the law, and then I vote Final Proposal of the Museum Act, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 85 for and 2 against, passed the Museum Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87438	Now it is before us: - Final proposal Law on Archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, they shall apply as was clear only with the title, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Does the representative or the representative of the applicant wish to give an additional explanation? The Minister of Culture, Nina Oblisen Koržinek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you have before you the Final Proposal of the Law on Archive materials and archives. I would remind and related to our debate in the first reading, the government has already announced last year the creation of new comprehensive laws on library archives and museums. We have now discussed the Law on Museums in our final proposal, you have before you the Final Proposal of the Law on Archives, and last week the Law on Librarys was published in public debate, and with this one package is the intention of the Government and the Ministry of Culture to actually give this area heritage activities a modern framework in the first order in order to respect a number of technological changes. Unlike the outdated, actually valid 1997 Law, the new Law allows for the transformation from classical to digital archive. In this sense, the conversion from analogue to digital archival material is defined, while creating legal assumptions for the creation, surrender and storage of materials produced as original digital archival material, which implies assumptions for the digitisation of the entire archive service or archive service, and this is actually a key paper adopted by this new Archive Act. By adopting this Act, the Government will also assume the obligation to develop a National Plan for the Development of Archive Activity, which will implement and collect archival material, its storage in the digital archive, but also the overall plan related to further development and infrastructure and activity issues, archival activities. In fact, this Law directly contributes to the development of a digital society and what is very important, we expect relatively fast serious financial discharges, and this does not only apply to public creators and holders of archival material, but it does refer to the economics and what is crucial that, in fact, through implementing acts, we ensure not only the conditions for converting analogue material into digital material but also to the fact that all parameters and the conditions for that material that is created originally in digital form as such in archives must be stored. As for some of the issues that we discussed in the first reading, but also during the last year when amendments and additions of this 1997 Act were made, which is a question of availability and use of archive material, we are actually significantly liberalising the availability of archive material in a way that will end the 30-year period of inaccessibility. Therefore, public archival material becomes available immediately from the moment of its creation in accordance with this Law, whether the archive material is submitted or not to the archive system. This is compared to the current Law which has maintained a 30-year period of inaccessibility, probably the biggest step in the part of the treatment of this topic, with the emphasis being made that this concept of defining the availability of public archive material is in fact fully in line with the rules on access to information. What is actually treated as an individual topic and what is also something more to be said about here is the question of the availability of materials that occurred before May 30, 1990. So, to begin with, by way of effect of this new Law, the deadline of 30 years is abolished and, therefore, this archive material becomes fully available without any restrictions. The only restrictions that exist are those common to personal data. However, according to the agreement reached last year when we adopted amendments and additions to the Law, the provisions on personal data are derivated in the case of persons who were partly repressive services. At this point, I would like to certainly as an introduction to the debate to complement and remind us of the debate we had some month ago here in the Parliament, and regarding the report on the collected lists of archive material from art. 21a, St. 1st Amendment and addition of the Law on Archive materials and archives adopted last year. This was actually an opportunity to make a full report on the capacity of the state archive system for the first time and actually through such a list and through one such report we see, analyze the real situation and see what is possible in terms of archival activity to plan further development. For us, this report is in one large part and the basis for the development of a national programme for the development of archival activity. On the one hand, it is obvious that more intensive investment will have to be made in infrastructure especially in those archives that, for reasons of lack of space, which is unfortunately most archives, cannot collect material. On the other hand, this shows how much more intense investment we will be able to digitise one large archival material through the conversion from analogue to digitally actually store in the archive system, and without further having to invest in the spatial conditions in the way it was now. As for the proposal and the amendments to the first reading, I am today explaining all the laws we have passed in front of this High House actually referred to these changes, so let me remind you briefly. So we've respected one whole series of nomotechnical corrections, we've worked with the task force and between the first and second readings. In this respect they are added to Article 3 m and not to define the information system and the conversion of materials, it is extremely important that it would because there is actually a system of archives dependent on a broader system defined from the position of the Ministry of Administration, it will be decisions to be made by the Government. It shall then be deleted in Article 6 with a provision relating to the responsibility of the public authority to comply with the obligations laid down in this law and when other bodies or other legal or natural persons carry out certain tasks for that body. In accordance with Article 16(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the protection of personal data by the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the protection of personal data and the protection of personal data relating to the processing of personal data (OJ L 298, 30.10.2009, p. 1). Article 18 provides that public archival material, which is not marked by the degree of secrecy, is in accordance with the regulations governing confidentiality, which contains the design and technical documentation of protected and military facilities, industrial plants, infrastructure facilities and similar data on natural and strategic treasures of importance for the national security of the Republic of Croatia, if it is submitted to the competent archive of data available at the end of the 40 years from the beginning. And here I have to thank the National Security Council Office for detailing this statement. The provisions on the protection of personal data relating to the availability of materials obtained by 30 May 1990 have been amended in such a way that the personal data of a person who acted in public responsibilities by 30 May and who was a member or associate of the Security Service are available without restrictions in the section relating to the performance of that public office or service. This section is defined in cooperation with the Personal Data Protection Agency. Articles 21 and 22 are amended as regards the conditions of use and the approval of access to materials in state archives in a way that the contents of those provisions and of the archives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here in the first row we had in mind an extremely complex process which will be needed and broad consultation in order to adopt a regulation which will specify the digitisation procedures. One part of this process and the construction of sublegal and definition of sublegal acts are planned to be realized through the digitalisation project of archive library and museum buildings that has been moving since August of this year. I had so much need for the introduction, and of course we are here for all possible questions or comments. I hope that this high home will support the Final Proposal of the Law on Archive Materials and Archives which, in fact, after 20 years, and in line with the development of technology and the development of activities, will allow archives to develop and serve in the part where they do so to our citizens, as in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87440	Thank you, too. You have seven replicas, first Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87441	Thank you very much. Minister, it is clear that this law closes the archives. However, I would ask you something, why in the description of the archival system of the Republic of Croatia and listing the competences and individual components of the Republic of Croatia are simply forgotten that one of the immensely important specialized state archives was established by a special law that passed this Croatian Assembly. You forgot from the speed forget Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War as part of the public archive service of the Republic of Croatia. And you don't even list it as an archive of any kind of Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War in this final bill simply doesn't exist for you. Tell me why. We understand the intensity that you are from the speed of how to close the archive until the '90s. forgot to put one of the most important as I said archive buildings, and this is the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War. Why'd you forget that? Why, here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87442	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87443	Thank you, Mr. Honorable Parliamentary Representative. As for the first part of your question, this law abolishes the 30-year inaccessibility period, so since you do not offer any argument by which you see archives being closed, it would not answer. And as far as the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War is concerned, you probably know well that it is an institution established by a special law adopted by this Assembly and is an integral part of the network of archives, so it is funded by the ministry in such a way. I believe that you can understand the difference between the state archives that are territorially organised through a system of state archives and a specialized archive that was established by a special law and whose work every year is under discussion in this High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87444	Thank you, too. Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87445	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors Minister. I have a question, which is why you put in the law a completely unsuspecting formulation, that only those who have acted as public officials in communism and also members of the security services remain available. So, and so this ally and it's important here, I believe that you as a very written person know the difference between and/or because you have limited the availability of the archive in some way to 2, 3 persons in the period between the 1980s and the 1990s and to put this formulation "or", you would open archives i.e. data would also be publicly available for those persons who were both members of the security services or UDBA or public officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87446	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87447	Please, I thank you, Your Honor. I think you're free to make your proposals, and we will, of course, consider them. So, I wouldn't answer the questions why we did this or that, the law was conducted by a very broad public debate such as all the participants and debates had their own position, we're here to listen to parliamentary deputies and we're going to consider those proposals that we think can be accepted as an improvement of the text, we're going to consider them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87448	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87449	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would ask a question concerning the period from 13 May 1990 to 22 December and the reasons why this law closes that period if we know that the joint proposal adopted here opened that period. What happened in the meantime? Have they become controversial individuals who participated in this period or whether there are certain controversial activities because we are talking about a period that is the creation of a Croatian state, a transition between the communist system into a modern democratic system. For this reason, we are coming into a situation that not long ago we opened archives and now we are closing them again in this act and I really think that the public, and we need an explanation here, too, which actually creates a problem for this period to be open to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87450	Thank you, too. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87451	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, today I will do as many times as I have to do in my first reading. Therefore, a 30-year period of inaccessibility is abolished. I don't know how if the explicity law says that it lifts the date of inaccessibility, where did you find the word "closure"? In this law you can create a search function, there is no word "close archive". As of May 30th, the date of May 30th is a symbol, it was our day of Croatian statehood and it is the day when the first people elected in the democratic elections sat in this House. I can't believe that today, almost 30 years later, we want those people who sat here on June 1st, June 2rd, June 3rd to equalize with those who are a week earlier. That's why we suggested May 30th that was widely accepted in the public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87452	Thank you very much. Mr. Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87453	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, the first reading has shown that there is room for convergence of some positions and has also shown your openness and openness of the Ministry of Culture to consider possible proposals regarding some amendments or suggestions that will also be discussed in this debate on the implementation documents. I think you've shown this openness before that anything that can improve that will be seriously considered, so I think it will be fruitful and this debate will also, in this respect, be a contribution that will come from the representatives and also from the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87454	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87455	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Minister, this position that you are open to remarks, we have also raised these remarks in the first reading, not only of MOST representatives, counterpart Kosor was surprised here from HSLS why we voted for a bill that has a particular concept, and then we are going in a completely different direction. So I doubt openness, but we're going to test it today with a large number of amendments because this bill is very bad. What is unacceptable for us is that the time limit for the handover of the materials came before December 22nd to be as many as 11 years under this proposal, the more the existing MOST law should have been submitted to the archives and downloaded from the archives until 20th of November 2018. We're going to propose an amendment one more appropriate time than two years without this wonderful proposal of yours. That material would have become available to us in two or three years. So that means the whole period of conversion and Privatisation would be available, now you're closing it too. [[Time, Mr. Grmoya.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87456	Thank you. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87457	Thank you, Mr. Representative. So I'll repeat it again, the lists are public, the material is available. We're terminating 30 years of inaccessibility. I don't know how you can interpret that material is unavailable. If we had accepted your proposal on the unconditional handover of the materials within the deadlines that you proposed, the only result would have been the complete blockage of the state archive system. You're aware of that, why you suggested it, I don't know, the report that we presented, suggested, given this Viskom home has shown it, now we're going faster into investment, by the end of this year we're going to finish the State Archives in Dubrovnik, we're going to start building archives in Pazin, Slavonski Brod, we're doing plans for Virovitica, so we're going to invest in the development of the network. The period of inaccessibility of 30 years of this law is abolished and that is the basic reason and fundamental difference compared to the current law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87458	Time, Madam Minister. Now it's Mr. Ante Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87459	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Here is the proposal of the Law, but the old 1997 Law also allows units of local and regional self-government to establish archives. Unfortunately, that didn't happen, i.e. It happened only a month ago that Split-Dalmatia County was the first unit of local and regional self-government to open its archive. So, the archive that is currently ready to store everything necessary and analogue and digital in the area of the entire county, but will offer its premises, normal and cities and municipalities, and it will also charge everything necessary at the level of cities, municipalities and county of Split-Dalmatia County, we know that the archive is also insufficiently kept at different locations, that a lot of this will be destroyed in some floods, fires, so I'm surprised and I think it's a good path and how you direct other units of local and regional self-government to start building their archives and preserving its archive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87460	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87461	Thank you. I would certainly praise that initiative of the Split-Dalmatia County and, in fact, certainly, that the pressure on the state museum system in terms of spatial needs would have been smaller if the units of local self-government and the county had reached for this possibility opened by law, but of course it is difficult to expect, it is another effort both financially and each other and professionally. However, we will certainly also through the national programme for the development of archival activity see if we can offer some measures that we too will encourage and perhaps help establish such archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87462	Thank you very much. Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87463	Minister, for that construction of that network you mentioned, it takes 11 years. These contractors are obviously very good quality. It looks like a fight to me, one at a time for 11 years, maybe even a house to build. But it doesn't matter now. Are you aware that the intention of this Law is to use what is called the so-called Law? the protection of personal data and the closure of the personal files of citizens who currently have 80 thousand in the state archive and are generally victims of persecutors. So these are the victims of surveillance and state security that are listed by names, last names, birth dates and parents. And the proposer's intention to keep it that way, so that the list of people under processing, the list of victims can only be made available to certain persons. I can tell you in the end, so it wasn't protecting the victims' personal data. It's obviously personal protection for a stalker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87464	Time, thank you. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87465	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I would like to repeat that the final draft of the Law abolishes the 30-year inaccessibility period. So all archive material is available. Where you read in this law that it is not available, I don't know. I can't find it. So, you're free to offer some arguments and, of course, to submit amendments to the final bill that we're going to consider, too, I don't know where in the law we've been talking about 11 years. How did you get to those 11 years I really don't know that. The investments of the Ministry of Culture in the archival activity are great, the needs are, unfortunately, as in many other areas, even greater, and we will be able to intensify the work and to bring as much space as possible to the purpose of storing archival material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87466	Mr. Petrov asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so he'll explain the article and the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87467	This is what I have to say, I think. She's a respected minister. Article, she made a mistake about art. 238, the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, the intelligence of parliamentary representatives, because the whole time mentioning 30 years does not apply to this, but to the classified content and absolutely everything will be in the end, respected ministers and closed. [[Intruder Radin: No, article and reason.]] And you know it very well from a series of items you're manipulating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87468	You were the president of the Parliament. Mr. Petrov, you were President of the Parliament. You know very well yes, I've let you speak out of tolerance, yes. In 238, it refers to what a representative can do, and unfortunately it does not apply, and I was surprised, but it never does not, nor does it now refer to what a representative of the Government can do. It's not my fault, it's not your fault, but it's the wrong article. I won't give you a warning because it's my day. ... Here you go. [[You can't hear it.]] Mr. Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87469	Dear colleagues, here. I would call these discussions about archives a total exercise in meaninglessness. ... What can we find out? [[You can't hear it.]] We already know that a lot of it's been destroyed, we know that. What about the article, Art. 20, No 2 relating to these former officials from the State Security Service, etc., their personal data. It's been cleaned long ago. Second, what about this other one we're looking for, this one. That's what this Croatian people are looking for. What about the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, etc. Where's that? Where are the results? We add the head of OZNA, Mr. Manolic on TV. You have hundreds of mass graves there. What are we talking about? Where is the social property of SKH, this SUBNOR, the Union of SKOJ, the socialist union of this, the peoples of Croatia, etc. This is just a exercise of senselessness for me. It's all burned up. What about handing over the MUP, what about the files in Belgrade?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87470	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87471	Thank you. Dear Mr. Parliamentarian Glasnovic. I, when I say the honourable parliamentary representative, don't consider it a form, I do listen with great respect to every debate that is being held here and I always try to hear the message because I believe that we all act towards the goal of the common good. The origin of the property would not be in the area of the Ministry of Culture, just as it is not a matter of classification or declassification or what we have heard about this law issue of lustration. The Ministry of Culture regulates activities, we discussed museums this morning, we are now discussing archives as part of a system of protection of cultural heritage and that is why we have proposed the law, why we believe that we have passed a good law before you. These other issues, questions are for other bodies, other ministries and other services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87472	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Let's move on with the clubs. First of all, I need to ask for committees, does anyone on the board want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Nikola Grmoy in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independents. ... Hey, buddy Bulj's picking up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87473	I'm looking on behalf of the MOST Club for a 10-minute break to clarify this situation where the minister, to consult with the club, where the minister is telling the truth about the 30-year deadlines.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87474	Mr. Bully, Mr. Bully, you've already had one break, you can only have one, you can't explain the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87475	And did we have a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87476	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87477	But mostly it would be good if we asked for a break because of this untruth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87478	She's already been, and you can't explain this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87479	And we had a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87480	You had a break, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87481	And that, but mostly I'd like to ask you to take a break, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87482	No, no, you can't. ... Mr. Grmoya may, however, be my guest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87483	Thank you, dear Vice President, you can calm down a fellow Shucker, he's very, very happy because the archives are closing but I would beg him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87484	Stop time for one second. If there's going to be a throwout, there's going to be a call between Mr. Grumo and Mr. Shucker or anyone else I'm going to give a warning, and then I'm going to give another warning and I'm not allowed to speak again. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy. Let's move on. I've been very clear, sir. Don't talk to him. [[Grmo attack: Comrade Shucker calm down,...]] And I have to give you a warning. [[Brubbers: Will you give him a warning?]] You have, write down a note to Mr. Grmoya and Mr. Shucker. [[So what makes him throw himself away, he throws away. Who's causing problems here?]] Because you called him first. [[/Brubbers: Why do I have a reminder?]] Let's move on. Yes, there you go. [[The Intruder of Grmoya: The First I Called Him?]] Two warnings, Mr. Bolt and Mr. Shucker. [[God forbid, this is amazing.]] Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87485	A fellow Shucker throws out the bench and I comment on him and I get a warning, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87486	Mr. Grmoya, you know what a second warning means.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87487	It's okay, it's okay, I see this way this is going. For starters, you can give me back my time, I lost 20 seconds for throwing out a fellow Shucker. ... No time returned, 30 [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder Radin: Return time to zero. Go back to zero.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87488	Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87489	To begin with, I'd like to refer to the truths brought here by the Minister of Culture. So a 30-year deadline that's been lifted doesn't mean anything because it only refers to non-classified material that means 40 years and that doesn't contain personal data, there's 170 years, and that's almost no time limit. Plus, it's a scattered material from the creator, and no one knows where it is or how to find it. So it's obvious here that the minister is deluding clarity and when we talk about this 11-year-old who she's been wondering about for 11 years, the respected minister is one year for the adoption of sublegal acts plus 10 years for surrender, so from that deadline that runs, it's a total of 11 years for the minister. Now, the whole law itself. So here we are today, as the 7th item of the agenda, discussing this important law. It is obvious that the intention was to discuss this far from the eyes of the public. Apparently, it counts for football games and it's all done to make this topic of its grand finale quiet and undetected. I must admit that I am truly sorry about this, it is a pity that the public does not see and hear in what way the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Culture, along with the fanfare and these ghastly media announcements, speaks of opening all the doors of the state archives to all the public. I would say that this is a great success for both the Government and the Ministry of Culture, almost grandiose, so this government and this Ministry of Culture have succeeded something that has never worked out, archives have been opened, and more importantly, whose funds are already wide open. I expect that on the day of entry into force of this law, the Prime Minister, accompanied by our distinguished minister and the usual suite, will at the very least cut off any tape at least at the door of the Croatian State Archives and thus symbolically hand over the archives and their archive funds to the use of the Croatian people. With such an announcement and after the salva criticism that the law experienced in the first reading here in the Parliament but also in the public, I personally expected important amendments to the law. Unfortunately, only cosmetic changes to the legal text were made between the two readings. And so it is quite obvious that what my colleagues have warned through their replicas is that the closure of archival funds is especially for those of the communist era and that this remains the primary objective of passing this law. It continues to insist on the opening of archival material produced by May 30th, 1990, compared to this MOST bill, under which archive material was available and opened until December 22nd, '90. If someone doesn't understand the reason it seems to be necessary to refer them to a recent statement by Dr. Dinka Cuture, director of the Croatian State Archives. As Cutura said the other day and media transmissions over the seven months are about the period of the creation of a modern Croatian state and each state protects its secrets. So if it is to trust the gentleman in question, the creation of the Croatian state is covered by a secret that is not for us ordinary mortals. The only question remains whether this Cuturna statement has anything to do with Milanovic's famous King Kong. For now, it remains unclear and we will have to trust Cuturi and Milanovic on the word. That the intention is to close the archive with the narrowing of the scope of the material available to the public also shows the fact that it is not intervened in the provisions relating to the protection of personal data. We still have a non-substantial formulation that only the personal data of those persons who acted in public responsibilities and were also members of the service of security or persons acting in public responsibilities and were also co-workers. This was warned by a colleague of Sladolev, so the minister had no excess response to it. Such behaviours, which were also members of the security service, were between the 1980s and the 1990s several, and were told by the Deputy Republic and Assistant Secretary of Interior of the Republic of Croatia. If we look further at public officials who were also seduced as co-workers of the Security Service, the number is probably even smaller because even in communism, it was not common for high-ranking state officials to also serve as a syringe to the Republic Service of State or Public Security. If the writers of this law distinguished one from the plural as they did not distinguish between the constituent and the divorced allies, they would probably know that during that period in the former Yugoslavia, which was part of which Croatia was then part of at least 13 state security services and nine other public security services. Even in Croatia at the time, they acted as part of the same republican public and state security body, so two security services. Of course, the number of people from Croatia who were co-workers of Yugoslav, including then Croatian security services, was much higher, especially military services. The very notion of a co-worker was discussed much and extensively, and there is really no longer any need to teach March writers the law which is an associate, which is an operational relationship, which is a friendly relationship, which is a social relationship and what is an associate or an operational relationship in preparation or in the stage of engagement. All these names were used for persons working with national security services. This has already been said and clarified so many times in public that only the writers of this law remain unclear. But as our President of Parliament here says recently to us MOST's, telling them, not talking, waving, not waving at our proposer comes to the same. In addition, this legal provision comes from a completely wrong premise that human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens in a single totalitarian system have violated only the only security services and as we have seen one single service. That this premise is obviously wrong can be convinced of anyone who walks into the writing of the Croatian Parliament and asks for certain writings from that period from which they will be convinced that both the Parliament and its representatives participated in the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. There are thousands of such examples in all the institutions of the then state, and even in colleges, schools, hospitals, psychiatric but others. Simply in the totalitarian system, fundamental human rights and personal freedoms of citizens have violated all the parts of this system wanted to admit it to me today or not. Let's add one more thing here, the primary intention of this law is, as counterpart Petrov said, to take advantage of the so-called. protection of personal data and close the personal files of citizens, about 80 thousand of them still preserved and found in the Croatian State Archives. It is a rule of law on the files of victims of the Republic of State Security who are listed by names and last names, date of birth and the name of the parents. This is somewhat logical because when you are looking for a single file, it is unlikely that you will be looking for a file of a person with black hair, a large nose and a leg number 43, somehow more logical to ask for files by name and last name and when there are several of them by the same name and by the date of birth and the names of parents. The older people say that that's exactly what names are for, namely calling and calling people names. The idea of the Minister of Culture and the Proposer not being like that anymore. According to this proposal, the list of people under processing should become unreachable to anyone other than the selected. I say you should, because although the text of the law makes it clear that that is exactly what the intention is, even under this law, a respected minister cannot happen. Namely, these files became without any restrictions available to the public on 20 May 2017. A large part of these files and copied by the archive user. Obviously, the importance of this present availability for future availability is not only clear to the legislators of this and this law. Yet what is more worrying and what is the real problem lies in the fact that the archives do not have what should be there, namely there are no security employees' files such as there are no safety associates' files and anyone else who has worked with these services on human rights violations. And so, this is crucial, the only way to find out who he is and how he violated human rights is through the victim's file. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues are clearly responsible for the protection of personal data and for this attempt to close the personal files of persecuted citizens. It's not about protecting the victims' personal data. It's about protecting the stalker's personal data. That this also shows that in 14 months of the complete openness of these files we have only one case that someone has requested that his file be denied to the public and that is the known case of Vladimir Seks. So one out of 80 grand. Not going in here whether there was even a legal basis to satisfy that request by fellow Shexa or not, as to how it was done in the State Archives at all. Here we come to the fact that the archive material that was at least partly written and which had to be handed over to the archives by November 20th this year remains according to this proposal outside the archive for another 11 years. That's this deadline I was talking about, Minister. Let's add that due to the same proposal of as many as 11 years of delay 10 years longer, the inaccessible archival material from the conversion and privatisation of the early 1990s will remain. And this material, if there wasn't such a suggestion about what you say, the full opening of the state archives would have made it slowly available to us in two or three years, but again you have a good reason, you say there's no money. So you're going to write a national plan for the development of archival activity, but not now, there's time, let's forget who robbed us and how he robbed us, you've long since prescribed, now just to let the people forget and you've solved everything. Unfortunately, all of this isn't over yet. What is even more concerned is that the law is simply poorly written and that 90% of its matter is left with sublegal regulations that we should wait even a year and until then apply legal swindles that were finally put out of force a year ago. Several examples that clearly state the quality of this proposal. I invite respected colleagues and colleagues to try to explain to themselves why the Law, which contains archive material in its title, has so few provisions on archive material. On the contrary, there are so many provisions on documentary material. Is the problem is that archive material is still protected by some international acts and you can't exactly hide it and destroy it any way you like. On the other hand, no one asks you what to do with the documentary material from which the same archive material should be read and preserved. Ask your esteemed colleagues and colleagues if you can determine from the proposed provisions of this Law when the document material becomes archived? Why do writers of the Law persistently use concepts of evaluation, selection, extermination of materials, and by law define, the truth unsuspecting and incomprehensible only evaluation. Ask your esteemed colleagues and colleagues why it is only now and in one half of the terms mentions the material originally produced in digital form. Why is the Law talking about the evaluation, destruction, surrender or archiving of original digital material? There should not be some information lumen to realize that something is wrong and that the world of digital data information has some other rules than those that rule in the world of paper documents. I ask both the promoter and all of you, does it make sense to clean up the digitally written data and determine what it is worth, and not when keeping such data in an integral form is exactly a marginal cost, and their processing by large date model can mean a significant difference for making some decisions in the future, or yet the meaning of this purification and destruction is something else. Are we talking about that Milanic King-Kong again? My colleague Bulj mentioned the Memorial-documentation Center of the Homeland War, which is not mentioned in this proposal, so I won't. And finally, all the questions raised here about these irrelevant little things and much more that time does not allow for the aforementioned formulas we have and we will submit as amendments to this Final Proposal of the Law. A total of 58 amendments and too many amendments, not the kind done by SDP colleagues under the LNG Act. We call on the proposer to withdraw this proposal, but we do not hope that they will do so, and since they will not do so, we will propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the reference this final proposal in the third reading due to a large number of amendments tabled which substantially alter the meaning of this proposal. [[Thank you. Time Mr. Grmoya.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87490	Thank you, too. Proposer, she asked for a word. Here you go. Oh, no, no, I'm sorry. There was one of these, one injury to the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bull. Here you go. The article, the reason... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87491	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure 238, p. 3. With its incursions, the speaker is, in a different way, a colleague of Shuker and 239, Article 239 where you should have given a warning if otherwise opposed to Article 338 of this Rules of Procedure, a representative. Therefore, the speaker was in this case in front of his colleagues, Grmoi. You warned, in front of the club, you warned, sorry in front of the club, you warned And from the bench, my colleague Shucker used to say... [[I gave you two.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87492	Time, Mr. Bull. Time. I gave two warnings, based on the correct article 238, as you told Mr. Shucker because he distracted his incursions from the speaker and Mr. Grumoja because of his conduct he deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. And I won't give any more damage to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Here you go, ma'am. ... Let's see, here you go, but if the breach of the Rules of Procedure doesn't match, you'll get a second warning and you won't be able to speak anymore. [[You can't hear it.]] Please think carefully before... Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87493	Dear Vice President, I went out to the pay phone, and my colleague Shuker did, so that's a violation of Article 238 with his incursions or otherwise distracting the speaker. So, you gave me a warning because my colleague Shucker threw something at me while I was talking on behalf of the club, and here I am, you see, all the time, my colleague Shucker does it. And so, only after he's told me... [[Wait a minute, wait a minute.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87494	Wait a minute, it's not until after. You weren't supposed to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87495	Why not, if a man throws me out of the club, and you don't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87496	Because you're getting... Quiet! [[You can't hear it.]] Because in this way, you have deviated from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. You're supposed to just talk further, not polymize... That's why you got a warning, too. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much. The intruder can't be heard. Please. ... Sure, sure, sure can. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He certainly can. You can't paralyze with anyone who's throwing you off, who's throwing you out of the assembly. It's you. You've half-limized both of them. Who will, which one of you wants a warning? Tell me, just tell me. Who wants a warning, not a warning? No one. Let's move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87497	Mr. President, I have asked for a word on behalf of the motionary. I find it difficult to come to this pay phone when you accuse me of telling the truth. As Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I have sworn an oath here with my colleagues, and we stick to those oaths. So I'm certainly not even from this pay phone, and I would never, at all, be false in my duties, and I'd appreciate it if we could clarify what you're talking about, it's a very difficult accusation. The Minister doesn't deceive the public, I present what it says in the final draft of the law we sent today. I see that there are some misunderstandings that I think need to be clarified through a debate like this. You said in your debate that 40 years of material was classified and after that you were your law, you kept telling the MOST bill, MOST had no bill, he had a proposal to amend and supplement the law, that you had declassified something. The issue of classification and declassification shall be governed by other specific regulations. The issue of declassification in no state and neither in the Republic of Croatia is the issue of the Archive Act. I think it's very important that we deal with facts here and talk about what is the measure of this law. In your debate, you said "salve criticism" to the public. This morning we listened to the Law on Audiovisual Activities of a number of organizations, very dissatisfactors, we followed all the discussions very closely, we followed the public debate, we made clear all the opinions in the public debate between the first and second readings. Besides your dissatisfaction, I really don't see what salves and criticisms are in public, tell us what the public is, whether they're experts, whether they're archivists, whether they're journalists, whether they're portals and what you define as salves of criticism. We believe that we have passed a law before you that has respected reasoned debates and criticisms and all that we thought we could do is respect it. Use the term so-called. protection of personal data. This House of Highs has passed the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, if you think it should be changed, you make a proposal to amend and supplement that law, open the debate, the Archive Act cannot regulate the issue of declassification, the Archive Act cannot derivate other regulations, it is not its purpose. This law is fully in line with other regulations. If you think you need to change them Parliament brought them, you change them, it's not done with one lex specialis. As for teaching in archives, teaching materials in archives, and what you have now calculated those 11 years, it will obviously be repeated now. Where conditions exist, they can surrender immediately. And there he surrenders, where there are no conditions, he will surrender when conditions are met. But what is crucial in this law and what you do not want to accept is that everything that is archive material is already available, it is available with creators, lists are made, lists are publicly available on the pages of the Ministry of Culture, on the pages of the state archives. What I finally have to throw away when you're giving such a flat-rate bill is poorly written, these are the real screwups you say you've put out of force. You may find something incomprehensible. I don't know, you may not have, worked in the system of state records. The people who work in the system of state archives are clear to them. They believe that he contributes to improving activities as we do. You've asked a whole series of questions at the end, and we've now come to this High House with a final bill of law. If you have amendments, please table amendments, we will consider them. But these discussions are 1,000 why, 1000 therefore, that you are constantly asking some new questions that we cannot answer because they are not based on what the law says I ask you to stick to what the text is, let us know if you think that somewhere this law is improving or not improving activities we will consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87498	Thank you, too. Two replicas, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87499	Dear Minister, we're absolutely clear and we're going to give the amendments, so I said a total of 58 amendments. What you do not want to answer is about the protection of personal data and the law. But you're saying that now this applicable law is not in line with the protection of personal data. And you're telling the truth when you say there's no legal declaration. So the MOST law has made a declassification of what has not been declassified so far. And I'm asking you what is the archive material of the creator? How do we know that the creators carried out the evaluation process? How do we know? Answer that question. And don't get out and talk to me, give me the amendments, we'll do it. Answer me, you're a culture minister, or you don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87500	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, you've given some signs. ... Now you do. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, now he's got a reply to the replica first. ... No, no, there's a reply to the replica, the answer is to the replica first. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's no answer, okay. No, no, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87501	Dear Mr. Grmoya, therefore, to every particular question of yours, we will give an answer to the extent to which it is based on what it says in the Law. It's very difficult from this place, when you accuse the government's representative of being false. I've tried to answer you before. This law abolishes 30 years of inaccessibility. So what is archive material is available, is available in archives, is available to the creator and if you have any other questions, I suggest you read the draft bill well and ask these specific questions then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87502	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87503	Thank you very much. You don't say what the archival material is with the creator, who determines it by what law, what you set it for? You didn't answer my colleagues' question to Grumoji. That's one, two, you're opening the archives, you're boasting bombistic, what's open, and fellow MPs 90% of us in the Parliament have raised our hands that there's an archival structure open, and this is the law that you're closing them down. There is nothing defined here, even documentation, archives, from the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, you have not mentioned at all, from speed to close archival structure. One reason is, I'm not going to go for reasons, but the fact is that this very important institution of ours and you, in the Homeland War documentation, didn't put you in archival construction. By this law, you don't mention it at all. And that's why we have 58 amendments to help you. Do not close the archive, because it is not necessary, it is already open.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87504	Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87505	Thank you, Mr. Representative, I will repeat, and then I worked at the Ministry of Culture, when the Ministry and then the government proposed in this House the adoption of a law on the Memorial documentation center of the Homeland War, so your remark is completely unfounded. And as for that, which is archival material, this law defines what archival material is, and as you know in the conduct of all bodies of public government, they, at the moment of creation, after all the materials they create to the rules, are properly stored archives, which are then as complete archival material at the moment when conditions are submitted to the state archive. So, all that our courts, our ministries, our local self-government, all that's when it's stored in accordance with the law and according to the rules, it's archival material. If you have any further questions about this, I'll be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87506	Thank you. Now counterpart Miroslav Tudjman will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Minister, in the opening statement, said that the key news of this law is the transition from the classical archive to the digital archive and I personally believe that this is what is most important in this law and that this digitalisation of archival buildings will allow you to make all, most of these concerns, which are now on the agenda and which want to be put as key problems of this law, that digitalisation itself and their availability will be resolved. Allow, however, a few notes regarding precisely this concept of digitisation, because I think it can still be improved to certain ones in this law. 2 are the basic features of the archive. The first is to make the archive material from the past available to today's generation, the second is to do the archival material that is created in the present, to preserve and make available to future generations. Two tasks, two ways of thinking, two policies of archival activity and two organisational paradigms. On the first paradigm, the traditional archival service was founded and followed by the practice so far and by the laws of sublegal law. Today, archives are at an imperative to simultaneously deal with both their historical tasks, to which extent Croatian society and state are able to organise an archival activity, to preserve digital archive material for future generations in digital times. What assumptions of digitisation of archive activity already exist? In 2014, the State Information Infrastructure Act was adopted. The law provides for state information infrastructure to be in the function of all public authorities institutions. This means that the authorities of the state administration should be available to Pharma servers, etc. State cloud owned by the Croatian State. For state information infrastructure, a body called the centre of shared services has been detained. The centre of shared services is responsible for uniting state information infrastructure. The Information System Security Office shall be responsible for standards of security, protection of the views of communication channels, etc. Public authorities, from ministry to regional and local administration, create their databases under different names of databases, data records, registers. All databases, created by public authorities, can and must be used in state information infrastructure. Unfortunately, the fact is that the list, the content of the data and the character of all these databases is so far unknown to me, which means that there is no synergy in the use of the database for both public authorities and the public. The Central Office for the Development of a Digital Society has the task and obligation to work on connecting the public authority databases, in other words the databases should be interoperability. It is precisely for the modernisation of the public administration of e-Croatia, that it performs administrative and professional tasks relating to the information of the internal business of the state administration, mutual communication and interoperability of the state administration body by electronic means. The E-Citizens system has been established with the aim of modernising, simplifying and speeding up communication between citizens and the public sector and increasing the transparency of the provision of public services. The development of e-Citizens is coordinated by the Ministry of Administration, and partners are the Agency for the Support of Information Systems and Information Technologies, FINA, the development of e-Citizens are included in the development of other ministries as well as many other institutions, Carnet, Heart, HZZO, HZMO, HZZZ, REGOS, Science and Higher Education Agency, Croatian Tourist Agency, State Institute for Intellectual Property. But there are no state records in the list, they are not included, the question is why? Are digital records of state institutions of archive material? Or digital business and communication within and between the bodies of the public government documentary structure? Is digital communication of public authorities with citizens and the public a public documentary material? Are existing registers, databases, databases already digitized records? Mothers of books born, married or books of citizens? Digital records of residence, residence or possession of road vehicles? An electronic work library? An electronic copy of the owner's list? A digital record of a catastrian plan? A transcript, or a copy of the ownership list? An excerpt from the land database? Evidence of criminal conduct? Databases of voter lists, etc. etc., are these digital records archived or not? This is a rhetorical issue because some countries have already made a decision that after 2025 the archives will not receive paper construction but will only store construction in digital form. Croatia needs to be prepared for such a scenario. It is likely that the Central Digitalisation Office of Croatia can provide an assessment of the extent to which the public authority's business process is digitised. On this basis, a projection of the digitisation of public authorities' operations for the future 5, 10 or 30 years should be prepared. I believe that, in the short term, digital business and communication will be dominant and in some segments only possible. State archives cannot be a parallel structure to the state-information structure, nor should they be able to re-save digital records created by public authorities. Today only 40% of archive material is stored in archives and 60% of buildings are unable to archive or download due to lack of space and personnel. Only a small part of the existing archive structure digitized. The conventional archival structure should be digitized, made available to the public, it is a traditional task of archives and archive activities. Another task of archival activity is to ensure that modern construction is available to future generations, so we need to change the way we work or the paradigm of an archival opinion. We must do today what future generations would expect of us. They must have at their disposal already arranged and available digital archive material. There are three conditions for achieving that goal. First, the digital structure that is created today, which is the product of day-to-day communication and business of the public authority, must already be in the format of a standardised digital record at the moment of creation and comply with all the standards of authenticity and security. Second, public authorities must use their business and communicate state-information infrastructure. Third, the state information infrastructure, the state server farm, must function from the very beginning as the infrastructure of state archives. This means that the rules, regulations and standards of digital records in the databases cannot be prepared and prescribed without an opinion and archival profession, and that also means that the rules, regulations and standards of digital archives cannot be prepared and prescribed without the opinion of experts in charge of state-information infrastructure. The logic of this business paradigm is that, in due course, all archive material of the body of the public authorities will be in digital form and available from the moment of creation. Secondly, that the state-information infrastructure will be in the function of archives and third, the archives will remain only one of the conventional structures of the past to be digitized. To what extent does the law propose to place a weight on another, new paradigm? To what extent does the archive activity and the archive assignments look from the future? Does the proposed law allow archives to become what their historic tasks are? The national system of information and data that serves the state and society for planning and decision-making and not just as a cultural heritage repository? Such an approach is not prominent enough in this law, it is present, but it is not prominent enough. A few examples in my opinion of indeterminateness in the existing law. The article argues that this law regulates the protection and processing of public documentary archives, etc. I think it should be placed, missing this law is arranged and the creation of digital public communications and archive material. There's an emphasis on access and organisation of the job itself. Article 6 states that the conditions and methods of creation, preservation, processing, evaluation, conversion into digital format will be laid down in the Regulation on the management of documentary material outside the archives brought by the Minister responsible for Culture. First, there is no indication that the provision also refers to digitisation, whether it refers only to the digitisation of conventional buildings and secondly, it is questionable how appropriate the Minister of Culture is to prescribe standards and formats of digitisation. This should be the competent authority and the body, means no or-or but also the state-information infrastructure body, in order to make digital material available later or at the same time on these networks. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 9th is said to be the following, the public authority or other person is obliged to obtain prior confirmation of the Croatian State Archives before the conversion of public documentation material into digital form, etc. If we are on the stand that all of what we have already listed is already an integral part of the archival structure, then there is no need for such formats and standards of digitisation to be derived from the State Archives rather than from those that are being used by the Central Digitalisation Office or the bodies responsible for the state information infrastructure and standards applied there. The following articles 14 says, public archive material in digital form is handed over to the state archive as a rule within a period of not more than 10 years from the date of its creation. What kind of archive material are you thinking about digitally? The one already created as the original digital material, which already exists in the databases or which is subsequently digitized. This should also be prescribed in this article. In Article 14, Article 4, public archive material shall be submitted to the competent State archives as set out in rounded units, technically equipped and in a digital form suitable for permanent storage. For me here, the question is, what are the state archives with the materials that are technically equipped in digital form that are suitable for permanent storage to do? The archives do not now have the necessary technology to use or to maintain the media on which this material is stored. In violation of the provisions of Art. 49th, it is said that it will punish between 20 and 50 thousand kuna for the offence of a legal person who makes the conversion of materials into digital form without confirmation of the Croatian State Archives. Again, the question is whether it's been about turning into a digital form of conventional building or one that's already emerging. Those doubtless should... The final provision states that the ministry should adopt a national programme for the development of Croatian archival activity within a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A modern and modern plan for the development of archival activity, depending on how the objectives and tasks of the archive will be defined, and in particular the creation of a digital archival structure, will require a change in the formulations of individual articles of this existing Law, so that we believe that this basic intensities that are contained in this Act will be able to digitalise the archive activity and archives to experience their corrections and will in some ways enable its realization.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87508	Thank you very much. Tudjman. I apologize for the noise you had in the back. I hope it doesn't continue. And now, not now, is Mrs Sabina the Voice who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. It is undeniable that the adoption or amendment of the Archive and Archive Act was necessary. This is something that she cried out at the end and the profession for many years, and we already said in the first reading in the debate in the Croatian Parliament that it was good that the requirements of the profession were answered even though the motivation of the adoption of this Law and the establishment of a special working group was the MOST's actual pressure on the Ministry of Culture and insistence on opening the archives. At that time, we remember a mover's law passed so quickly, but the Ministry said it was actually intended to regulate a much wider matter to be regulated by this Law, and here we have today in the second reading and the proposal of that Law. It does not differ significantly from the proposal of the Law in the first reading, as it was directed to us on the benches in the first reading and the minister herself said most of it was actually nomotechnical harmonisation and precision of certain provisions and I will only repeat here means that it is good to align with European practice, that good law is not brought into conflict with some of the other laws that were created after the adoption of this Law, such as the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, etc., etc. We know, I think the waist mostly knows that very often this Law and some of the other laws that came after it came into collapsing and thus brought people who worked in this area to a very invisible situation to act on lex-specialis, and on the other hand to respect some other legal normatives in some situations was almost impossible. And it is good that the amendments to this Law will actually regulate that part and comply with other laws. It's also good that what you yourself have stated, so the archives of this bill's proposal, become a legal person, ensure its existence of survival, but also its functioning in digital society. It will speed up and simplify the use of information, allow for the creation and transfer and storage of archive material in electronic form, which among other things will lead to the cost of certain processes, not only in the public administration, but also in the economy, because they were very often both in spatial and other material conditions, I will say so, implement the law itself or if they do not fully implement it, then they must have had difficulties in applying the law itself. What you have said is the availability of material from its creation and before the transfer itself to the archive, it is now a measure which is in some way much more flexible and much more open than the present, that deadline, or, period has been reduced by 10 years. However, what might have been different and it may have defined some things by law and avoiding it seems I need to adopt six new regulations that stem from this law, which will, you will agree with me, lead to a slowdown of the implementation itself. So we'll probably adopt it at the Croatian Parliament already I don't know whether tomorrow or tomorrow. A week. However, in order for him to fully live, we must actually wait for the adoption of as many as 6 regulations, some of which are so demanding and get very far into the content itself, perhaps they could have been defined by law itself. And in conclusion, that I am not taking too much time, you have unnecessarily entered the political arena, by shortening this deadline, by moving, the availability of public archive material containing classified and other classified information and moving that deadline from December 22nd to May 30th. Why do I say it unnecessary? Because rightly here some colleagues ask a question, who is being protected, and what does he want to hide? I don't want to claim that the intensity of the legislation is that, it will show time. However, if these people who make up most of the Croatian Parliament, a year ago, were brought into a situation, not to see anything controversial in the fact that the date that was defined on May 30th and what fellow Stier said, then in the debate on the Law in the first reading, I think that when we were eight months ago. Raise your hands for those changes, which opened archives, raised your hands for those changes, which opened archives, raised your hands in the Parliament, raised your hands in the government, that we did not, in any case, go against the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, that we were not against setting some dates, for example, Like the Christmas constitution, we reduced the importance of May 30th. We're not, so these people, of whom you expect to vote for the law tomorrow, which contains the second date, means it's no longer a Christmas constitution, but it's May 30, why you put them in such a situation. The laws are changed and the provisions of the law change, when we want to improve something, or when we see certain items of the law have holes, i.e. failures. What has happened since May 2017, when the majority's representatives voted on 30 May as a deadline for the availability of this archive material, so that this would be the reason why you decided to amend the law. Give me one argument, what has been spectacularly happening in these years, what you want to improve this provision of the law and this amendment, why you are going to change, and you are bringing these people into such a eating situation and an unnecessary law that solves 90% of your provisions of the profession, you are exposing to a political battle in this Croatian Parliament. So you didn't agree, then in May 2017 on this date, just because there were local elections and because it was in your best interest to get Bridge support. I can't believe I can't believe that because of the election, you were ready to forget then, which date is interpreted as the creation of the Croatian state. And why was then an acceptable date for the adoption of the Christmas constitution, and today he won't say it controversial, but in some ways you question him because you change it, you change it. What we're smarter about in these years and why you're doing it to MPs, who didn't see anything in it until yesterday, and you convinced them that it was okay. What will be improved by this law? If you do not have an answer to that question, but please do not give me the answer you give in these two readings, that it is clean because you think it is the day of the Croatian statehood, the day of the Croatian Parliament's constitution. Yes, and you knew that information in May 2017 when the law was passed here on the Bridge proposal and you could intervene then, it is I believe that there would be no slowness. If we don't get a satisfactory answer to this question, then you really leave room for doubt, that for a reason this period of 30.5-22.12 stands here for some reason that is known only to you, that you don't want everything to be seen, that you don't want everything to be read and that you actually advocate the syncope, that is, a mistake in this period of Croatian state creation and everything that happened during that period. We will depend on your answer to be set according to this Law. If we don't get a logical explanation of why you opened this political game and if it's worth the motive for changing this date, be restrained. If you give us a logical, realistic and reasoned answer then we are prepared to support this Law because we believe that as soon as possible we need to end up with some stories from the past, that things should be cleared up, that we should open up, that we should not use them, and that we should not use them much less abuse of some uncleared accounts in order to distract ourselves from some of the problems in the Croatian society that are now pressuring us and to serve the past as it suits us at the moment when we do not want to discuss the present, we want to cover some of the things that are happening now. Here, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87510	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj as an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87511	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, fellow MPs. Last year, prior to the local elections, archives in the Republic of Croatia were opened. That's what you HDZ colleagues voted on, and most of them, and then it was meant, probably because of the election, but it was unfortunate not to vote for the Law and the archives were open. A few days ago, however, news from the front page again appears, the minister makes statements, UDBA archives are being opened. That's what most media publishes. And again, the archives were opened last year. The law that you supported on the bill that the Law gave, the promoter was MOST, you voted. This law closes the archives. That's true. We can't get here, we didn't get any further explanation from the minister about the archive building, she said of the creator, the one created by the archival structure. The way she's described, how she's gonna... Know what his archival is, based on what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we don't get basic questions. The main problem is due to the speed of work, which means the most important documentation in the archival system of the Republic of Croatia, which lists the competences of some of its meanings, components, is forgotten meaning, documentation, archival structure of the National War Memorial. There's no mention of this law at all. That's why we have 58 amendments, because you're basically closing what you voted for a year ago, fellow MPs, year and two months ago. So it was pre-election time, which is why it had to be accepted in a hurry because voters couldn't forgive you, which is why you voted for it. And of course, now it's been a certain period, again in a hurry you're doing a law that even though... The reading, but the minister cannot give many answers to the questions, so on the creators of the archive building, who they are, where they are prescribed, how they come into existence and how to solve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, apparently a colleague who has essentially the biggest problem, he wants to close it. I know this isn't easy for you, Minister. I know who created this government, how it was created, remember who was up there when he was a colleague upstairs... He did, in which way he created most. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why you have to defend it. I even understand you there. However, you cannot defend what is indefensible, no matter what your colleague puts it together for you in this way. This is indefensible. The archives were opened last year, before the election on the MOST proposal, most in the parliament accepted it. There was a misdemeanor, a colleague suggested it, ordered the archives shut down. And he can't scream from the press cover your statement that you're opening UDBA archives when they close. And everyone knows it. That's a fact. So this is a lex-college, basically this law is closing the archives or we can call it a lex-college. Indeed, Minister, this is not easy to defend because you simply cannot give answers to this by respecting your expertise, the competence of you and your associates, but the creator of the government is a colleague, it must be called the Law by his lex-collar and therefore I do not see any other way, the model except that the parliamentary representatives who voted to open the archives to not support this law, to vote against a lex-college. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87512	The replica has Mr. Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87513	Dear Mr. Bulj, how to comment on the fact that there is in the law this formulation that only those who act in public duties remain available and were also members of the security services. So, there is a key link "i", so to replace that bond "i" with or, therefore, data would be available to those people who were only members of the security services, and there were many or those who acted in public responsibilities. So this is how we have the fact that it's going to cover two or three people, and with a formulation, or, so by insertion or by obtaining the availability of thousands and thousands of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87514	Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87515	Well, I agree with you, my colleague Sladolev, and I don't see the reason, I mean the fact that it opens up to those who ran the service, that's a couple of people that we all know were chiefs of service, and these are all closed. I don't know who we're protecting here, fellow MPs. Why would we accept this law? Here, colleague Kovac, colleague Tudjman, why would we accept closure if we opened this law last year. Why? Who are we protecting? Well, he can't put a colleague together for us, but if he put the government together in that way, you remember the way he put it together, that now he has to, we have to do this in these changes to close this law. And indeed this law should be called a lex-college, a man has succeeded in assembling this government and he is essentially the real prime minister of Mr. Vladimir Seks, and basically in this story I just don't know who they're protecting, colleague of Sladolev, fellow MPs, I believe he won't support this. Here's what I truly believe, because the government put this together and it was now the minister's obligation, she fell for it, I believe it's not easy for her.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87516	Buddy Bull, time's up. Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Miro the blacksmith who's here, doesn't lose his right and will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87517	I would like to thank Mr. President for his words. I would like to pay my respects to my colleagues at the Ministry of Culture at work and to the drafting of this bill, of course there was a lot of work. I want to share three thoughts with you. First of all, the first thought concerns incentives, incentives to use this law, although there are some remarks that we will further formulate, which we seem to be legitimate, we have heard some of the fellow Tudjman who spoke on behalf of the club and some things can certainly still be fixed, that is to use this law to encourage both the Ministry of Science and Education of the People in Croatia to explore more about ourselves and Croatian history. There seems to be plenty more room for improvement, and here I have recently read an interview with a German historian who wrote it seems that the doctorate was on the subject of Independent State Croatia, such things are missing in Croatia. We need to explore much more Croatian history, recent history, porn, Yugoslav communist system, II. The world war, this part concerning the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, there are many works, but there are many, many more things that we here in Croatia can and must do, not only in Croatia but also with colleagues abroad, there are many buildings, lots of materials in other countries that have affected the processes concerning Croatia and of course Croatia when it was part of Yugoslavia and the two Yugoslav states when it comes to II. World war. So this should be an incentive to work much more on ourselves and to shed light on this Croatian history that has both beautiful sides and fewer beautiful sides as it already happens when it comes to the history of peoples, nations, states, countries. So that seems very, very important to me. The second thought, and that's where I hear the thought from my colleagues, what's quite intriguing is, of course, the material that concerns national security after II. World War I. It may have been appropriate to make, this is how I think, to make a special law when it comes to this material, and we have a foothold in the laws of some countries in Europe that have passed a similar experience as we have here in Croatia, means a special law on how to avoid some ambiguities, in order to avoid interpretations, to be precise in the definition and victims and those that are found to be responsible for crimes against humanity, for human rights violations. And the third thought concerns the archival building that Croatia has the right to, which is located outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to use this law to encourage the efforts we make as a government government, especially in relation to neighbouring Serbia, where documents concerning both the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and the NDH are found, but also in the post-II periods. The world war, which is our property, means we own this material, I think it is very, very important that we succeed in delivering this material to us in Croatia because we are also the owners of this material so that, as I said in my first thought, we can really enable people in Croatia, but not only people in Croatia, but people who want to explore Croatian history, the history of Croatia in the 20th century. Of course, we have to be, as our colleague Glasovac said, directed towards the future, we are and we have to solve the problems of Croatian citizens, there are a handful of them, but it must not prevent us from being determined to shed light on our history and I have already said that there is a lot of work to be done on this plan. And in conclusion, I'd say we use this law to really raise the level of preservation of the display of archive material. If we look at the way they look at us in the world, I have had the honour of exploring the opportunity, the happiness, however you will, the privilege, the research of Croatian history and the history of the world in archives outside the Republic of Croatia. When you see the documents being kept there, which is important to the archive material that you have to pay specifically because they are expensive services, then you would like us to inspire ourselves in Croatia, and in order to be inspired by it, we must show seriousness on this plan, and I think that some of the things we heard here in the assembly and from colleagues in our club of representatives but also from colleague Glasovac, but also to colleagues in MOST, that we can find a compromise solution in order to, in some way, enable some kind of spiritual peace to our Croatian nation in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87518	Thank you, too. Mr. Grmoya has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87519	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Kovac, it is nice to hear that you are appealing to the minister that everything said here in the debate, that should be checked, respected, etc. But here things are completely clear. You have been and your policy option has supported the law in force, and now we have a situation to completely change the concept and to go to closing a certain piece of the file that was publicly available. And the question here is pure credibility. If not this HDZ leadership, then individual representatives. Here is your credibility test, if you support this bill, you will lose in that electoral body where you want support because this is about HDZ constantly blowing on lustration, and you, along with Tomislav Karamark, are now closing the HDZ archives that he opened because MOST asked for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87520	Time. Mr. Kovac, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87521	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for giving me your word. I am convinced that here is the Minister with the Secretary of State and with a colleague I know well from another constituency, the State Minister is here, hearing your remarks and still listening to them, hearing not only your remarks but also the remarks of fellow Tudjman and my smallness, I am convinced that as part of the debate and this process of law-making and some remarks we will manage to integrate into a bill that will then become a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87522	Thank you, too. Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87523	Thank you. Comrade Kovac, you spoke of the need and history of the research of this archival building. In view of this issue, that is to say, what it wants to get past this law, I think it should suggest that in the plan of digitisation the advantage is given to this disputed structure and that it be made available to everyone in order to stop being the subject of misunderstanding or different interpretations. But not only do these buildings and what happens now, because unfortunately today we are witnessing fragmentary truths because most of the sources of good work and advocates go through social networks and these one-time sources that are just always credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87524	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87525	Thank you very much. I agree with you esteemed colleague Tudjman, that on this plan we must show seriousness, we must not allow as responsible people in the Croatian Parliament and, of course, I am referring to the ruling majority, on colleagues who are in opposition, we must not allow us to give up power over interpreting the Croatian history of the street. And one charlatan approach that we know has, as we see not only in Croatia, it is a modern trend in both North America and Europe. So I appeal to all of us to be serious on this plan and to be serious people seriously thinking people lead the process of lighting up Croatian history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87526	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87527	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Kovac, you said in your statement or in your statement that we should turn to the future but that we should also take care of the past and clear everything from the past. I'm now asking you as an agent who also voted in favour of a slightly different proposal on archives and archive material a year ago. Do you think it was necessary and necessary to reopen this story, the political story of moving the deadline for opening a certain archive material from December 22nd to May 30th? Do you think that was necessary if, in the meantime, the law voted in this Croatian Parliament a year ago married in that work did not prove to be a failure or if you want bad or do not give God, abused? Do you feel that this was necessary again today to discuss some of the topics on which we know that the Croatian public is on fire and that it is always attractive?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87528	Thank you, Mrs. Voter. Mr. Kovac, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87529	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is necessary that this complex period of Croatian history, which is why I was talking about the possibility of a special law being made on this subject, is my personal thinking to remove the possibilities of some false interpretations or abuse of interpretations, to discuss seriously what we are doing, would be nicer if we were here a little bit more, to discuss it in a larger number. And I repeat that it is important to show this one seriousness, and I am convinced that, here is the Minister with her associates, that we will be able to put some remarks into the final text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87530	Thank you, too. Mr. Culey is on his way now, individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87531	Your Honor, Vice President. It takes digitisation and archiving of all data to put history where it belongs for all time, not in a chateau, but in one place where it would be available to everyone who is interested in it. Here, we also have positive indicators, the Croatian Defence Ministry has applied 18 million kunas, for the archiving and digitisation of all archives from the Homeland War, both from the Ministry of Interior and from the Ministry of Defence and from the centre of the documentary Ante Nazor where 100 Croatian defenders, witnesses of that time, are engaged to do so with honor and honesty. And not that we've been going to give me a history since '45. Today 2018, we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, who we do not have more pressing and smarter jobs than we have to go back, because it was before chicken or egg. Why am I saying this? We can archive, digitize, but what are we gonna do? How much of that archive will we ever manage to collect and store for future generations, when we don't know, how many of that was in the first place. Once upon a time, I reported one man for one embezzlement of my close friend because to this day we are not friends, we are enemies, and we were very good. Because of his malfeasances and then when I reported him, when I came to a higher instance, they didn't know what the initial state was. So they told me, let's make a real situation now. Well, when we did it in fact, I knew there was a lot missing, and, well, he turned out to be good, right, and I turned out to be a prosecutor, because I wanted, for justice, for justice, for the law, that one of them didn't give up, didn't mud and didn't spoil the others, but it doesn't matter. How we're going to determine the actual state of our archive material, when an egg or a chicken, the question is now, I'm sorry there's no Beus Richembergh here, so to confirm whether I'm right, I'll come back to him later, so he doesn't forget him in the debate. Says here, who was the late intelligence officer, Jan Gabris, an agent who secretly obtained weapons for Croatia and Tudjman in 1991, and made a list of marriage agents. That's the man that if we put on the scale, you're a good married man. Some came and took their position with Croatian society in order to help society, while others left the same society and hid their documents, took them with them. Now those who remained at our disposal in our President Franji Tudjman put in service both him and his visions of Croatia, in the interest of our country, they were getting weapons, they were doing good for the Croatian people. And these others, who pulled their archives, they went away. But there's one catch, there's one man who knew who they were, and that's intelligence, Jan Gabris. Now, what happened next with Jan Gabris? He says, "Gabris has been in intensive contact with German investigators and has agreed to cooperate to shed light on the killings on the German soil." He didn't have cancer, and if he did, it's unusual for him to go and kill himself as soon as he found out. He was killed just like Mark Bezzer's former head of Ustasha's marriage in '93. A man whose body was found with a swagger, and a gun that allegedly killed himself in the Sava River. And unbelief was killed because he agreed to cooperate with the Germans. Resolute is my choice, close to the German investigations where I found this. Imagine this, we have two intelligence officers, top-notch, who have a complete archive, about all the comforters who worked in Croatia, and they both commit suicide, and before that they apply to be witnesses to lex Perkovic. It's absurd to me. It's ridiculous to me. I would, with the last breath of my life, show up and say what I needed to tell the truth, but secretly I wouldn't take it to the grave, especially not like that. And now we're going to digitize the archives, there's nothing we can do, so they've removed everything. They also removed Gabriel, they removed Besser, so they weren't the ones who would kill themselves, so they're the people who would commit suicide, but possibly mass murder if they could. Well, it wasn't the lame ones. What are these psychological profiles of a man who has worked for years for the service of certain things and finally goes to judge, imagine this, when I came to the Croatian Parliament Mr. Beus Richembergh... As they call him, he asks me what your name is, counting on me coming from the former JNA, so I'm possible, some close to him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't tell him my name or my nickname, but I asked him here in the debate, if you were Mr. Beus Richembergh Odyssey, an associate of the marriage, and he answered me from his place in three separate court proceedings, I proved that I wasn't the one, and I knew at the moment that he was the one, that he was Odyssey, who wrote the reports to Shupeu, and this Shupei wrote to Vugrinc, and Vugrinec wrote to Perkovic, and I finally got to his file, until the day he got hired. Both such and as many as may be sitting in the Croatian Assembly, few of us are here, so I don't know who to look at. How many others have changed names, last names, but no activity. That oath they took like him, it's gone. He was still on his line, he, who showed his colleagues in the ministry, and they worked together for the same service, and today he muds the defenders, the Croatian Catholic Church, as well as many who sit here and we talk about archives. One went when I told priest Zivkovic, a monument stands in Podvinj. You could talk a lot more, but I'm losing my will, because I really know that Croatia's youth in the future will not see a letter from the archive and I can only see G. All the truth about the Homeland War, they write to them as General Glasnović... Write to them by those who criminalise the Homeland War, various houses, various non-culturals who criminalise the Homeland War with their films, and therefore are very well paid from the state budget of Croatian defenders be calm, be quiet until you see everything I know and some here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want any more, I'm tired and I can see that there's no point and there's a people down there who brought the signatures, so I'm gonna go say hello. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87532	Now, please, go to the people and we'll move on with the debate and you'd better stay here because you have replicas. The people will wait, they will wait for you for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Culey, don't lose your will, the archives have their function, they have their own intention, they'll get to know each other sooner or later, to the truth, but we need to adapt to today's time, go into digitization. Just one example, a few years ago a student had a seminar shop about censorship and said there was no censorship in Yugoslavia, the former Yugoslavia. I'm asking how it wasn't, he says, so it's not on the Internet. That's the answer to this. Once these documents are placed on the Internet, a little bit by little, regardless of the part that's been destroyed or that's gone a little bit, the whole picture will be reconstructed and things will come to their place, and that's why we need to be persistent and we need to go into that digitisation and these funds and those that are now coming into existence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87534	Thank you, Mr. Tudjman, thank you very much. Mr. Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87535	Dear Representative Tudjman, if there had been digitisation, there would have been no dispute in the Croatian society about Jasenovac about '41. And '45. Until '51 what happened there. So we would not be the hostages of a particular group in Croatian society, which each tells us, if necessary, about what was happening there, although there are still witnesses who are alive and their children like Vukic, who also through the media attacks him and especially Mrs Krist who got fired for giving him even space on HRT to tell the truth about what was going on there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87536	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey, for your thought. Now we have Mrs. Voter. She's gone. ... And she wasn't the Voice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Excuse me. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87537	Dear colleague Culey, I support you in your struggle for truth because the truth must come out eventually. And that's why I expect you to vote on this bill because 80,000 files will still be closed behind the door. We expect you to vote against as we expect you to support and vote tomorrow when it comes to the law of your colleague Mira Bulja to declare August 29th the Day of Peace, on the day of Dr. Ivan Schreter, who we still don't know the truth about, still wonders why we don't know the truth, is it because it's much more important to support the government than to have the government give their opinion of the bill. That is why I expect you to continue as a fighter for the Croatian state to fight for the truth and the truth means to remain open archives as is now and also the truth that must come to light what happened to your party member Dr. Ivan Schreter, who is a model of peacemaking, has to be recognized in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87538	Doctor, thank you. And I'm sorry, I read the wrong paper, it's my fault. Here you go, Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87539	Pandora's box about Dr. I think I opened the door, but she's welcome to some promotions. My finger is connected to my brain and he always presses when his brain gives him a signal. That's how I learned in my life when I was able to see that my former commander was also an associate of marriage and some other times about it. And as for dr. The debate tomorrow will be more than a bile, will be more than an argument so that many will be recognized, many may not even be in the assembly because of some problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87540	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Misic who's been before Mrs. Strenje-Linić, but I've made a little confusion, so I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87541	We certainly understand that in this beautiful Croatia still turns out for something is not the time to open the archives. Of course, who doesn't want to open the archives means '45. By the age of 91, of course they don't want to, our historians who have finished history... Before, between the two of these wars, they're only relevant to talk about archives and crimes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one else. This is the crap that we heard on television the other day, which is naturally popularized by television and wants to let it know that we are all lying and that no truth can be explored. Because they've all investigated. What someone else should be looking into. So until we open up and let's be clear, that's why our people from Croatia are leaving and of course such people want to leave Croatia. And this is the cause of our mentality and this is the cause of the departure of young people from Croatia who must, the truth must come out in Croatia, the sea. Until then, we're out of luck, we're out of prosperity, we've got no rule of law, we've got nothing. Without truth, there is no justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87542	Thank you. Mr. Culey's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87543	My dear colleague, you understood exactly what I was talking about. In Croatia there are various historians, academics and others, with many others, Mr. in front of their name and they were first of all spatrated and not academic canonized, so that today they're smarting us beside ours, for some as they say, we're smart enough to go to Google and Wikipedia, and we also know well what our old, such truths about what was going on in that war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87544	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Ante Bacic will have his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, another greeting. Here we have heard a lot in these individual debates and in the debates on behalf of the club on this historical factor of archival construction and opening and closing documents, I think so much about it, I think there are enough experts on the subject here, so I'm going to just a few sentences about maybe the future of the archive material itself and the general service of the archives which I and in the initial replica of the minister mentioned so just one positive example which may well convince this bill. Namely, the Proposal for a Law on Archive materials and archives provides for a regime for the protection of public and private archive materials, and for the establishment of archives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, specialized and private archives. What I mentioned at the outset also means this bill, but also the old '97 law, provides for the possibility that units of local and regional self-government solve the problem of archive material, when I say the problem I mean the problem of the maintenance costs themselves and everything that the law requires of individual institutions to keep certain documents, to store generally archive material, especially these obligations digitising them. Namely, many of our units of local and regional self-government, cities, municipalities, various institutions outside the state archives themselves do not have the ability to store laws of mandatory such documents and are found in major problems what many of their spaces can use for other things are used precisely for inadequate preservation of archival buildings. Namely, good, I repeat, good example and good persuasion of this bill and I would like this to be repeated several times and notes is exactly the archive in the Split-Dalmatia County. So the building of the archives of the Split-Dalmatia County itself, which was opened here before the incompletes. the day in Dicm shows the only archive that the only county has opened since this law exists and shows one good direction not only to us but also to colleagues from the EU who have been at the opening of this archive that they have seen as being made and this is one that is for other units of local and regional self-government how to solve the problem of the archive itself. Namely, the building of the Split-Dalmatia County archive is at 700 m2, located as I mentioned in Dicmu, has 5 km of shelves, can accommodate 50,000 registrators and at this time one of the safest and best equipped fire and fire-breathing buildings that have been built. We know that the Split-Dalmatia County is the largest county in the Republic of Croatia with outposts in 10 larger cities, there is a large archive material that needs to be moved and normally that this investment that may have not looked in some way like a good investment as to why you spend so much money on a new building, but when you look at the costs of all cities, municipalities and the county itself and the state as much as they use to guard certain buildings and how inadequate it is, in a few years I think it will definitely pay off. As far as the Split-Dalmatia County itself is concerned, it has also digitised all documents related to business processes since 2009 when an electronic document management system was introduced, so that the archive building itself will also include this digital segment not only analoguely guarding the archive building. And normally, under this new law, the archive of the Split-Dalmatia County will also be responsible for the material of all institutions whose county is owned or founded. It is almost 200 institutions and the building's capacity itself will be sufficient for the next 5 to 10 years. As we are in the opening of archives that were before the month. The archive will be available and open to all towns and municipalities in the Split-Dalmatia County, even some contacts with state institutions, to store certain buildings. It has been announced that how many cities and municipalities even contain such documents and registrars and in digital form, we have seen that this building will not be enough for all of this, that in a few years more will be built, the annex of the Split-Dalmatia County archives, because I think that all this that has been collected in recent years and this entire historical building definitely deserves a quality and adequate space to preserve so many important documents and so much important buildings because what we see every year is happening in different offices, by various storage spaces that simply and for the sake of elemental disasters and doing the very climate and for the sake of changing time itself, this archive and that building simply collapses from day to day, so that we definitely see here, and for a good example from Split-Dalmatia County, I think we should definitely save for all our history and what we need to do, and normally from the loneliness of Croatia, so that we can't be able to keep all the cities in the first place, so that we can't be able to save ourselves in the right time, so we can't be able to save ourselves, but when we can't be able to stay in time. So here, along with this whole historical story of opening and closing different files and documents and archives, I think we should definitely submit a positive story to this new bill, which is a story from our Split-Dalmatia County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87546	Thank you, too. No, he doesn't have a right to a replica. ... It's an individual debate. [[You can't hear it.]] Mr. Grmoya, you have an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87547	Thank you, Vice President. Although you have given me no reason to recall today during the debate over the nervous outburst of fellow Shucker, At the end of what needs to be concluded after all these discussions that we have heard here, colleague Bulj has well noticed that the minister is not here today in one pleasant position, that he must defend something that is indisputable, that there are no answers to many of our questions that I personally raised and during the debate on behalf of the Club, but which we have asked here through the Minister's questions and through all these replicas that we have had. [[We're starting again.]] It's clear to me that you can't give an answer when logical questions are asked when you're always saying you're opening what's already open, and you're actually closing it. We've shown this through a series of concrete examples. What I would expect from my colleagues from HDZ, I see that there is a colleague, Škorić, that there is colleague Tudjman, colleague Kovac, colleague Stier, was at the very beginning, colleague Culej, to show that within the framework of what they have indicated as a new, new direction within the HDZ itself will vote on his conscience, that he will not vote for this proposal which closes the archives. If they don't believe what I'm saying and they don't know which one of us is telling the truth, Minister Oblisen or I, I call here on my colleague Skoric to go to the state archive to make sure the funds are fully open at this point, and that this bill will close it. You can't ask from the campaign campaign to lustration, to face the past, to this communist regime, and then when we finally raised those standards, when we opened the archives by December 22nd, we now go to prison calling for protection of personal data, which is why 80,000 files, colleagues Škorić and colleagues Kovac, who are now open to closure. So close them down and make them inaccessible to the public, the public. And only through those files can we get to the stalker. We don't have a stalker record in the archives, only through the victim's files can we reach the stalker indirectly. And if you really care about what you're saying all the time, if you're as credible as the HDZ slogan says, then you won't support the bill we gave 58 too many amendments to. This fellow Kovac is not small corrections that the minister might take into account, these are changes that change the meaning of this Law itself, whose sole purpose is to close the archives. I expect you, as you are on another case, to act in accordance with your conscience in this case, to reject such a bill and thus show that what you are declaring, what you are saying in the election campaigns, means that you have been repeating to Croatian citizens for many years that you want to face that past, that it is your real position, not just some fine position to get votes in election campaigns. So you brought along these changes that opened the archives and now I don't think it would be good to go to jail. After all, in his first reading, Kosor made it clear here that he does not understand why this concept is changing, why it is going in one other direction and why we all supported something, and then we are going to change. It's obvious what I'm expecting, and here I repeat again here that according to what you've been saying and according to your conscience you don't support such a bad unsuspecting bill that only, its sole purpose is to close the archives. A colleague Bulj called it an interesting, lex-college, but precisely in that case Vladimir Seks was over the victim's file he came up with that he meant, was an associate of the service. So, right through the victim's file. And that's the only way to get to an associate. And you will show this, if you support this bill of law that you want to protect the persecutors, that you want to protect those who were part of that system, and that this story of dealing with the past and I don't know, the fact that we want to take a unique view of the totalitarian regime that has persecuted its citizens, that it is actually a fined position that you only use in pre-election campaigns. So I repeat again, several problems mean the key to this law. Personal files are closed under the cover of personal data protection, 80 grand means files. It also means that this period that is now open until December 22nd is now closed. It's said that it's because this date is historically important. If it's a historically important date, then we're going to declare that date statehood day. Some colleagues have already talked about it at the Assembly, announced that they would do it, and here it is not yet done. And this has nothing to do with it. So we want this process of transition from the communist system, the democratic one, to see who these people are, who ran through it. Are there any of these people sitting here in the Croatian Parliament? Here's what my colleague Culey was talking about. Which people went to HDZ, and they were co-workers of those services. I was asked by a colleague, or a journalist on television, by the announcements of a large coalition, I say, the announcement of a large coalition could come true, but then, practically, that one sentence would come true, that party in two parts, you'd be whole again. Because one large part of the people in that former system went to HDZ. So in that sense, I don't know what you HDZ colleagues are afraid of, if what I'm saying isn't true, then don't close the archives. Don't close the archives, Mr. Tudjman, if what I'm saying isn't true. What are we afraid of? Who was an associate of these services? Are there any of those people in HDZ? Let's see it, why are we afraid, what are we afraid of? These are questions that require answers, and I hope that part of HDZ's representative will not support this bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87548	Thank you very much. Mr. Skoric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87549	Thank you, well-respected chairman, dear colleague Grumoja, here I am surprised by your debate, so you have had the opportunity, along with us, to resolve these issues, to contribute, to open topics, to close topics. We all testify in our workplace, in our environment, how we treat the former totalitarian system, to the people who came out. I can honestly and honestly tell you that I have no such problems in my environment and no organization that I run, absolutely know, who he was, who he was, who he wasn't, and there are no people in my ranks who should be ashamed of their past. Therefore, let each of us clean up in his own backyard, and I believe that with this law, nothing will hide, nor hide, therefore, but we must put everything within the framework of the legal rules. So you had a chance and you didn't take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87550	Here's a colleague of the Grmoi, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87551	I took advantage of this opportunity, I took advantage of the situation that the local elections went to you and that you had to support it, that you voted in favour of this law and thank God you opened the archives. And now the Minister of Culture and the Proposer wants to close the archives. I didn't ask you if you, who you have in your environment, didn't have anything to justify to me. So I'll just see who is who, when there's a vote on this bill. I will see who is Miro Kovac, when there is a vote on this bill, I will see who is Petar Škorić, I will see who is Davor Ivo Stier, I will see who is Miroslav Tudjman, I will see who is Ivica Misic, I will see when there is a vote on this law on archives. This will show who is who in Croatia and who is who on the Croatian political scene, who wants the truth and who hides the truth. And that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87552	Okay. Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87553	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to get involved too much today, but the fact is that my colleague Grumoja has been abused for a long time by this pay phone to deal with one man, and that's Mr. Shex, whom he deliberately puts into one relationship, which he has repeatedly denied publicly, especially in the media. Apparently, there's no courage to meet him and explain it to him in four eyes, but you use a pay phone, you call out a man who can't answer you. This is not a characteristic of a good parliamentary representative, but of a man who wants to collect certain points on some lies and manipulations. And that is precisely your biggest problem, why you want to use the time of the formation of the Republic of Croatia to deal with anyone you don't like. You won't do it, and fellow Shacks apologize, he wasn't an associate of marriage, he was a victim of marriage, publicly, five times already denied, written and published, and may be ashamed of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87554	I thank my colleague, Boric, the answer, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87555	It is always moving for me to watch my colleague, Boric, perform the tasks. He's doing a fantastic job. Always playing that patch and one such would be a good patch, one defensive scale, Croatia in Russia. So he always plays the task of defending someone, this is where he defends Vladimir Shakespeare. So I'm not afraid of Vladimir Shakespeare, I'm facing him in the eyes of the Open, wherever Vladimir Shakespeare wants to come, I'm ready to go into a duel with him. And prove that what he claims isn't true, it's true what the documents say. What Boric writes in his papers, and you must defend Vladimir, you must defend Vladimir Seks, just as you must defend Andrej Plenkovic, just as you have defended Tomislav Karamark, you are a man for all time and for all tasks. And it's always useful to have a player like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87556	Mr. Tudjman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bolt has asked a question. What are we afraid of? I'll answer what we're afraid of. We are afraid of the nonsense of exclusion, intolerance, and accusing HDZ of beautification is politically insolent and historical insolence. And you are the first to question the democratic structure of the Croatian state and of the Croatian authorities, as of May 30th, on the Christmas constitution. Therefore, your exclusion is something that is unbearable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87558	The answer to Mr. Grmoy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87559	You know Mr. Tudjman who's been to HDZ, you know that well. And when I talk about the fact that some of the people in the former system have gone to HDZ, they're facts. We don't need to talk right now, if we're going to list the names of those people who were in HDZ who were associates with the signs of these services. So let's not lie, Mr. Tudjman. But I wasn't talking about all the people in HDZ or HDZ as a foreigner, I wasn't, I wasn't, I was saying that one part of the people had crossed and been and acted within HDZ, and that's a fact, you can't deny it. So you can't deny it. And if you care about the truth, and I care about the truth, I want it to be open, available and public. It's just that and nothing else. It's just that and nothing else. So we can't deny the facts. You're trying, colleague Boric is trying to deny facts, documents No, I just mentioned Mr. Boric. [[No, no, you're answering Mr. Tudjman now.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87560	Thank you very much. - Five, thank you very much. And now we have Mr. Mira Bulj who will speak for 5 minutes on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists as a final performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87561	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman, distinguished minister with her assistants, colleagues and colleagues. Last year we opened the archives, now we're passing the law, again as we open archives, that's what the minister says, no matter what reason she hasn't given, no response to the re-opening of the archives. They close themselves by this law, first of all, you have not answered the ministers on many questions, I can now repeat them from the creator of the archival structure, who is it, when it is prescribed that you are not the most important archival structure, I have heard, colleague Culej mentions the Homeland War. Yes, you forgot to the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War that documentation archived in general in this law mentioned. It is the most important archival structure, it is the foundation of the Croatian state. You don't even mention the meaning of this very important institution. That's the building. I simply said before, I see that the one who created this government, the creator of this government, that's fellow Shakespeare who... With his finger done, yes, this is a "lex colleague", you are aware of that minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know this isn't easy for you to defend, and this is indefensible, but the fact is that he's prime minister, i.e. as the man who retained Prime Minister Plenkovic and you in this government along with his colleague, Pupovac, SDSS and HNS and others at that time of overdoing, and even here there is no colleague of Zekanovic he even supported at that time and many similar supported it. And at this point we're closing the archives, we're definitely closing it, and it's visible. As far as other stories are concerned, when someone says the great merits of Shex, yes, the great merits, to locate, to arrest, to transfer, to process, it is one of the greatest merits, one of the most embarrassing statements that has been experienced in Croatian history. That's what he says he said on behalf of Stipe Mesic and his father, sorry, Eve Sanader, but the fact that this law, that this law, that's the fact that this law closes the archives, this law has closed the archives. And that's all of you who voted on my colleague Škorić, my colleague, Boric, all of you who voted must know that the archive was opened last year. At this point, it's closed, voting yours. That's why I'm calling you one more time, Minister, this isn't easy to defend. I know what position she's in, and I know, and she's doing it, and she's even doing all the commendation, and I can see that you're silent this time, assistants, secretaries, last time you've been a lot louder, it's not easy to defend these ministers. You must publicly say here that the archives were opened last year, you do not want to say it, you have 15, 20 days you have made a statement that was screaming in the media, the archives of the marriage are opening, and the archives are open for a year and now they are closing up so that this manipulation, every honor for that manipulation, I think you would be envied by all the PRs in the country, every honor to you and another congratulation. And I hope your colleagues and colleagues don't think you're gonna support Lex's colleague and that this paperwork stays the way it is. Here are these 58 amendments from the minister on behalf of the club we have well-intentioned, which we have well-intentionedly given that you will take a good look at in the interest of the archive building and that you will accept these well-intentioned proposals that you will have to consider until the vote and I hope that the colleagues who were to open this archive last year will be credible and that this time will support the amendments or if not the amendments then will not vote for this law. But it would be best if you could find a way and now in the final speech to withdraw this law so that you could save it in the third reading or that it would be best not to bring it in because the simple archives are open. Here's me and in the best faith, I believe that you could explain it very easily to the employer, which is why and how this has to be done because you can't defend this. Here's one more time, we're going to make constructive proposals, we're proposing in the first step that you withdraw, 58 we're giving you amendments of well-intentioned, i.e. Do not close the archives and include what you did not include, which is most important, this is the part of the National War Documentary Memorial Center that archive structure and that we define once everything we need. But I suggest you withdraw it would be most correct because the time of the archive is open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87562	Just one remark, I have to tell you, Mr Bulj, you can do whatever you want, but there are no deputies in the parliamentary system, there are only applicants, there are no employers in the parliamentary system, you can think whatever you want. It's your personal and private opinion, but it has a proposal [[Invader Bulj: Your Excellency, a deep apology.]] It's a termology that needs to be used and we'll talk about the rest later. [[Intruder Bulj: Your Excellency.]] When we're out I'll tell you a few more things about what I think about it. Mr. Boric had a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87563	Thank you very much, Vice President. Once again, breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 238. He clearly showed his colleague Bulj that he had used the final address on behalf of the club The item by its behaviour deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. [[Intruder Radin: 238, which item are they asking?]] So he abused the speech on behalf of the club in the final way that he's dealing with another man he can't answer. They do this often, often with lies, slanders, manipulations to make themselves look bigger than that man who has made it clear to the creation of this country as opposed to them who can take their merits in the policy of awareness of such nonsense as they say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87564	Time, but no injured Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, half the speech could be that way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87565	239 239 One is just that item, you're supposed to give a warning. [[/Intruder Radin: Which item?]] Yeah, there's one item, you needed a warning, there's a warning. [[Intruder Radin: 239, one. Wait a minute.]] You should have told the president a warning, Mr. Boric, he doesn't know my contribution to the Homeland War for sure. Second, let him say where he was in which trench. The other thing, me. [["It's been a while, I'm sorry."]] [[I'm not sure what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87566	Mr. Grmoya, you have a second warning and you can't perform anymore, you have another warning. And you, Mr. Bull, time's up, please sit down, please sit down. Timeout [[But you should have given him a warning.]] Timeout [[You should have given him a warning.]] Time. [[/Intruder Bull: But why didn't you give him a warning when the man found himself offended in anything?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87567	So who said to arrest, locate, transfer, deliver? Who said that? It's the most embarrassing statement, it's a statement issued by all the principles of the Homeland War. More documents you sent... In The Hague, are you ashamed to defend it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Shame on you, be ashamed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87568	Mr. Bully, and Mr. Bully, why are you acting like this? And for what? And why are you acting like this? [[Why don't you give him a warning?]] I said he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. [[/Intruder Bull: Why are you acting like this?]] What makes you so infantile as a child? You're acting like a child. [[/Intruder Bull: Why are you acting like this?]] Please nice, please nice [[Intruder Bull: 239. is injured.]] You have a reminder. [[You didn't give me an explanation.]] Please, because you're having sex with me, please. [[You've got two.]] Please enough, final word, ma'am. [[Intruder Bull: So you ask yourself, answer, so the Rules of Procedure is not done for you.]] That's the end word. [[What are you nervous about?]] I mean, it's too much, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87569	So I will try very briefly to respond to a series of comments and claims made here. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your concern, you don't have to worry about me personally or about me as a minister or as a government, we know exactly what we're doing, what we're proposing with a clear conscience in front of this House of Commons with bill proposals. I'll start with a line on certain topics. First of all, the issue of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. I will repeat, I was the secretary of state then in the HDZ Government, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War was founded, we initiated it, we founded it. He has his own special law and claim that this law does not apply to an institution which, in its basic law, calls for it to be an archival institution, it is simply a lack of knowledge of the rules that I have to apply to the public. As regards the question of the reason for this final draft of the law, I would strongly refer to the presentation of the esteemed representative Tudjman, as we communicated last year, the basic reason for this adoption of this law is the need for the activity of the archive to be brought into line with today's needs of today's time and technology issues. In that sense, we have created a prerequisite through one series of provisions that what you rightly indicate is when the complete system of CDU editing, the Centre of shared services, therefore the issue of state information infrastructure, security and therefore all the regulations that will be derivated, that, within the framework of the regulation that will be passed according to this law, we can actually accept the data so defined as meta-data and what is to be found in this so-called state cloud, in fact, into the archive system. I note once again what I have said several times and in the context of the Law on Museums in August of this year goes into the implementation of a major project, a national digitalisation project, you have rightly indicated that certain states have set a very clear deadline after which they will no longer collect material except in digital form, we need to make all of these advances, build infrastructure, align regulations and under legal regulations with those requirements, go to one I would say, ambitious effort to digitise and what is crucial and what this law assumes, create a prerequisite that what today is created as digital material, that it can actually be collected. Whether we during work and on a project of digitisation and the adoption of regulations on the centre, that is, the whole state infrastructure may have to come at some point with some more amendments and additions to this Act, that is possible. But at this point, we've been anticipating to the extent that we've been able to compare to the rules we've adopted so far. It's part about digitization, and I'm glad that here through a series of discussions it's recognized that in fact the digitalization process and the collection of digital archive material is actually one of the key instruments that the problems that exist in the archival service are solved. In that sense, the issue of digital transformation that you mentioned and the question of the body responsible for digital infrastructure, as you know, are all of these regulations, part of the regulation has been passed, part is still being adopted. This was also about rules that must be adopted and why this Law to a greater extent is not governed by certain areas than is left for regulations. First of all, as part of the regulations of archives, libraries and museums, we have this system where certain specific questions are regulated by the rules because it is very complex procedures and we also make sure that the Law must withstand that test of technological neutrality, so it must set basic principles and basic postulates, and through sublegal acts that are much easier to change we will actually in time adapt these procedures. What's been a lot of talk today and during the first reading and what I need to answer completely unequivocally, first these are the questions of the flat-rate review of opening, closing archives, I repeat once again, we in the nomenclature of this Law don't talk about it. In the archival profession and archive legislation, we are talking about the availability of data, so far the data have been available 30 years after creation, so data on archive material is now available immediately. A hundred times thesis that does not have a foothold in the text that we have brought to this high house will not be able to find in this text what is not written in it. So it's completely unfounded to read such grades that something opens or closes. As far as the date is concerned, I will now try to be as specific as this pay phone and this esteemed home can endure. Until May 29th, the person who was president of the executive presidency... The Socialist Republic of Croatia was Ivo Latin. [[You can't hear it.]] By establishing the first democratic parliament, the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman assumes the post. If we want to derogate under the ego under the argument set out in the Law, the personal data of the first Croatian president who entered the post on 30 May. That is the key reason, 30 May is the date when the transfer of power was brought. Now, second thesis. The second thesis that we're closing something, so that's what I would have unfounded in the law, but it's very maligning. Someone who was a member of the personal data service by May 30 or May 29 is still available. What we think must be a turning point is that people who started public service after 30 May or who entered the service including the MUP and MORH and the services, other services with those found there before the transfer of power, cannot be equated. And that's why the insinuations and the plantings that we're listening to not only today but the last months and the last year are not only untrue, they're very, very malignancies and they're not based on the text of this Law. Nothing closes with this law. We are only talking about respecting personal data and protecting and implementing the laws passed by this House. So I'm going to say it one more time, all those people you're trying to claim in your debate right now that their data will be hidden, so they've been in service on May 29th and May 28th and May 1st and all the time before. Therefore, the names of these people in the ministry are publicly and publicly available. What you want to imply here is that people who in the 7th month, the 8th month, the 9th month may have been people who were victims of this repressive apparatus accessing these public services, you want to equalize them. And you keep saying that you stand for openness or closure of the archives. These are some accounts and these are some of the thesis for which there is no standoff in this Law. And now you're talking about the 58 amendments. You didn't explain any of them. You're dealing with 80,000 files. Where did this law come from? Where'd that data come from? So, we'll consider every reasoned debate and every proposal...... Yeah, we'll study them, I'm just saying [[You can't hear it.]] I'm just saying that in your debate, you haven't been making arguments about individual amendments, you've been giving some general political evaluations, which as the day moved on to the end, are getting further away from the culture that I come from and further away from the measure of the law that we're discussing today. [[Intruder Radin: Excuse me Minister, please continue your speech.]] At the very end, I would like to point out once again that during this period we have answered all the reasoned questions and all the questions that have been related to the text of the law that we have brought to this High House. We can't respond to impressions and interpretations and what someone thinks they write here and what it doesn't say here. So unlike the existing and valid 1997 law, which had a 30-year period of inaccessibility for all archive material, we now have that period of availability, i.e. inaccessibility abolished, and the archive material is all available immediately. As regards the issue of derogating personal data on behalf of both the Government and the party on behalf of which I am here, I cannot agree to such a single replacement of the thesis in order to equalise Mr Ivo Latin and the first Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. It's simple that I don't think we can accept it, and therefore I believe and I am convinced that anyone who reads this law well on purpose, who has looked at the public debate, who has looked and read what experts, archivists, historians, have said about this law, and with full confidence that it contributes to the development of this activity will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87570	You have no right to speak anymore. ... No, you don't have the right to speak any more because you, it says, have taken away the word of the bush. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But Mr. Bulj, however, has the right to replicate. [[/Grmoya's intrusion: The minister, the minister, persistently manipulates. The Minister keeps manipulating, insisting.]] Here you go. Mr. Bull, you're right. You have the right to replicate. [[Grumo raider: And the story of equating and we're looking for an archive opening and she wants them closed, so she keeps manipulating and misleading the public all the time.]] Here you go. Don't, don't, don't. Just because you're repeating the same thing all the time doesn't mean it's true. No, it doesn't, it just means that you campeically repeat the same thing, keep repeating the same thing, keep quiet already. [[Brubbers: It's true.]] Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87571	I thought you guys were done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87572	No, you, you can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87573	Oh, thank you. Dear Minister, you have not answered the key things all along whether the archive is open by law and whether it is in accordance with the Law on the Sign of Data Protection of the last year of the 4th month we proposed and did not answer many questions and you cannot imply that to the Most and impose on us that we have not given amendments. We gave 58 amendments in accordance with the law and explained them in writing. And you can't manipulate a pay phone and speak no truth, at the very least lies and deceptions at the burden of the council club, the club of MPs who explained the 58 amendments. You say that right now, we won't accept them. And I know this isn't easy for you to defend, and I know you have to defend this. And the best thing for you would have been if this law had been withdrawn. That would be the correct thing for you. Not a single question from fellow MPs who were asked you gave an answer. Unfortunately, this law closes the archives and that's your primary goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87574	Mr. Bull, thank you. Mrs. Secretary's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87575	Dear Mr. Representative Bulj, if we haven't said this clearly enough, there has been a period of inaccessibility of the archive material of 30 years by law proposed by this Government to the Croatian Parliament, a period of inaccessibility of 30 years has been abolished and all archive material is immediately available to the creators and I think it answers the key concerns that you show during these months whether the material is available or not, and I suggest once again, that we actually use those terms used in archives and that is the question of availability, so immediately, if it is not naturally classified or protected by some other regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87576	The last replica, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87577	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have explained the whole situation from the 35th to the Christmas Constitution. The fact is that gentlemen don't want to believe what you're saying, they don't want them to believe anything, they're the only truth in this House, in this country. Whatever they say is only true, everything else is lies and manipulations, and it is they who manipulate, lie, to create a platform on which they can always persecute those who are not willing. The fact is that they used this to deal with some people but about that, the law is good, the archives are open, even more open, and they had a year on their law to pick up everything that's interesting to them and find all those who might be bothered to produce it again and say that they're right and that they all know and they only know everything, they're the only ones who deserve it, everyone else knows nothing. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87578	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. ... You're not, uh... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, it's not. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I watched him, he didn't. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I watched him and he didn't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I watched it and it didn't but you know what, look... But look me in the eye, I'll trust you so I'll give him... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Shut up. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll trust you, and I'll give you my word. There you go, but it's not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87579	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. An esteemed colleague violated Article 238 because otherwise... The session's work is disturbing the session's work because it's been giving the minister a replica all along and saying we're lying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And did 58 amendments and open archives and the minister hasn't answered anything but you're a really good side patch and it's for the truth, if anything a colleague has said so far, exactly as... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87580	Time. Cheers, be healthy, sleep well, tomorrow we have the Final Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children in Second Reading, of course, at 9:30. Thank you very much, go get some rest. Session interrupted at 18.20 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87581	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. We move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. No. 219. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the MPs' club Independent for Croatia, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Most Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. A review of all amendments was submitted by electronic means. We're moving on to the amendments. First amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. I'm calling Secretary of State Mr. Ivica Polick from the Ministry of Culture. In Article 1(1), the words “use of files on archives” are replaced by the words “use of documentary and archive materials in archives and outside archives”. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87582	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs, the amendment is not accepted. The term "use of archive materials" has a broader meaning, includes documentary and archival material and the conditions of use of materials outside the archive and private material are regulated by creators.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87583	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87584	We have referred to this law a large number of amendments, of course the law is in its being bad, it is practically not to be fixed, the concept of the law is such that it closes what was opened more than a year ago, means the archive funds themselves but here we have tried at least to help the ministry to make it look like something. That is why we have added this concept of documentary material to this first amendment, because it is also required to be used outside the archives and we, while it is called archives, still do not know whether it is archival or documentary material so that in that sense, this amendment is fully justified. So we tried to clarify the terminology, make the law more comprehensible through all our amendments, and I am very sorry that the Ministry and the Government does not want to accept those amendments that went in the direction of repairing the law itself, although it is, as I said, in its being irreparable, its concept is to go and that its intention is to close everything that was open more than a year ago to the Most Law on Archives, or to the archival material in archives when we forced the ruling before the local elections, means HDZ to vote for this law, and we will see today what will be accepted, which will be rejected but when all of our amendments were accepted, this law by its concept is very poor and it is much more restrictive than the law we passed more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87585	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Grmoya raider: Looking for a vote.]] We move on to the second amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia to Article 3. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87586	The second amendment is not accepted. The term "supervisor" shall not be used for the reason that the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia uses the term "owners" defined by a law governing property and other real rights. The fact that certain creators have ceased to exist as legal entities and the material is located among non-creator owners but are legal followers of the creator. In that sense, the ‘holder’ has depreciated a legal term which cannot be used in a specific case because it can be interpreted incorrectly in terms of its meaning, of course, with the exception of the material produced by 30 May 1990 because the term ‘holder’ was then used.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87587	Thank you. Comrade Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87588	Dear Secretary of State, your argument is, of course, completely unfounded because if it were founded and if you had in mind what you're talking about, then you would find yourself in this law the term "owner" you're talking about. If you don't understand why the term 'owner' is important, I suggest you go up to II. the floor of the institution where you work, where there is a permanent archive of the Ministry of Culture, so the Ministry of Culture is not the creator of this archive, but rather the documentary material which has been initiated by your ministry, so the legal obligation to carry out a list of these materials, to surrender to the public, surrender, and therefore to this Parliament, we continue to insist that in this legal proposal next to the creator of the archives there must be an idea of the archive holders, and in this sense we are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87589	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. We move to the third amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Art. 3. ct. 1. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87590	The amendment is not accepted and this is because the conduct of an archive activity cannot be limited to one legal form for all entities, and the acceptance of this restriction would be contrary to EU rules governing the freedom to provide services and to the Service Act. Otherwise, state archives and archives of units of local and regional and regional self-government are established as institutions under the Law on Institutions, and therefore this issue does not need to be regulated by this Act, and other types of archives can be established as any form of legal person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87591	I would like to thank Secretary of State Polick. Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87592	Dear Secretary of State, there are a whole range of legal persons in the Croatian legal system, states, counties, cities, municipalities, companies, institutions, foundations, foundations, foundations, associations of citizens, trade unions, political parties, religious communities, legal entities with different meanings and purpose of existence. The maximum number of such legal persons by their being, legal constitution and purpose is not suitable for carrying out the activity of the archive. It's not legally possible to, for example. a religious community so that it could be established to engage in archival activity. Article 1(2) The law on institutions is prescribed that an institution is established to carry out its activities on a permanent basis, including the activities of culture, if they are not carried out in order to obtain profits. What is it like to be ordered by the law of the Member States? 30th of this final proposal provides that archival activity is normally carried out as a public archival service, i.e. archives carrying out public archival services in the following article. 6th, St. 1. The Law on Institutions is permitted to establish exclusively as public institutions. Other archives which are not in the public archive system shall be established as institutions, with the application of the provision of art to such archives. 1st, St. 4. The law on institutions. So this amendment of ours is completely justified. As I said before in this first amendment, our amendments have gone in the direction of correcting this bad law, which is of course and that you accept them all impossible to fix, but you don't want that either. So we've been well-intentioned even though your intentions mean that you're heading towards closing the archives aren't like that. We went to fix what was bad, but it seems impossible to fix I'd like to know how the HDZ colleagues will vote on this proposal of yours. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87593	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, are you looking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87594	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87595	Thank you very much. We move on to the 4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Art. 3. ct. 1. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87596	The amendment is not accepted because the definition is in force in the Law... Technologically neutral, and refers to all selected documentary material which meets the prescribed criteria i.e. that it has a lasting value for culture, history, science or other activities or for the protection and exercise of the rights and interests of persons and communities for which it is kept permanently. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law contains the definition of documentary material in digital form and that proposal does not constitute an improvement of that definition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87597	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87598	Therefore, the definition of archive material as a process of estimating the selected material is applicable exclusively to documentary material which did not originally appear in digital form. The material produced in the digital form is not subject to evaluation for the very nature of the digital data. So the inability to distinguish the original from the copy. So that's impossible to tell. Different data storage conditions and due to exposure it is necessary to extend the definition in such a way as to show that the document material originally produced in digital form does not succumb to the valuation itself. If we have something in digital form to store that data, we need very little space. Why should we value this material in the sense in which we value the rest of the material? So it's quite clear in which direction this amendment is going, but obviously you don't know the difference at all between what's produced as digital material, so in storage it takes much less space and the fact that there's no difference when we have digital material between what it means, the original and what's a copy. This is such a ill-written law, which was obviously the only purpose of closing what was opened more than a year ago, and I do not understand how my colleague Šipic, my colleague Babic, my colleague Djakic, would vote, now colleague Brkic, means our vice president, will now vote for such a law while more than a year ago they voted in favour of opening the archives. How is now going to be justified in front of their voters, means if they vote for something like this that you're proposing, and you don't even want to fix such a bad law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87599	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87600	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87601	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. We move to the 5th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in relation to Article. 3. ct. 1. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87602	The amendment is not accepted because the definition of public archive material is written clearly, precisely and unambiguously, and the selection process is prescribed by the legal provisions so that it is clear that public archive material is selected document material in the evaluation process.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87603	Thank you. My dear comrade Grmoya, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87604	So it is quite clear that this amendment of ours proposes to determine that the material is selected by the evaluation process, since the evaluation is the only defined concept in the law, unlike... So the Proposer didn't define the other concepts and we're trying now to put this only term that's defined in the whole of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We did everything to make a bad law, one law that is not at all defined in many of its specifics, and we help the ministry who obviously doesn't know the problem itself and doesn't understand or deliberately pretend that he doesn't know the problem in order to get through this law some other things. We talked all the time about what was the intention, it was no use changing these changes that are currently in effect because I invite you HDZ colleagues to go to the State Archives and you will see that the archive funds are open, that the UDBA archives that you can at the moment until this law has yet entered into force you can get an insight of the entire funds you can get into, freely. Here's to making sure, buddy, you're looking at me with wonder, that's true. Go to the State Archives and ask for UDBA funds and you will see that everything is open. This law will close it and thus the HDZ shows that if it votes such a law, it is not up to the truth, it is not up to him to face the dark past of the communist regime, but rather to protect those who were part of a repressive apparatus, a apparatus that imprisoned people, who persecuted people, who were stalking people. And I can't believe you're gonna vote for something like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87605	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87606	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87607	Thank you very much. We shall move to the 6th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists in conjunction with Article 3(1). Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87608	The amendment is not accepted. Political parties cannot be classified as public authorities, and this takes into account the provisions of a special law which explicitly prescribes that political parties cannot act organisationally within the body of the state administration, legal entities listed under the public authority's terms in this definition, as was the case until 30 May 1990 in the not democratic regime. Political parties shall have the obligations of the owner and the creator of the archive material prescribed by the provisions of this law relating to private archive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87609	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87610	I think it is clear to all of us here in the assembly that political parties have an important influence on politics, culture and history, and because of their legal position in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to include them in the definition of the body of the public authority, the more the majority of the parties, and all those sitting here in the Croatian Parliament, are financed from the state budget. All the political parties that do not finance here are those that are not part of this smaller political party, which are not part of any government or local or regional, or as you are all here at the state level. And that is why it is necessary to include political parties in a sentence and thus avoid potential disputes in the interpretation and application of the legal provision. After all, it is clear to me why you do not want to agree that political parties are being defined because by the next year and according to this political party's law, among them HDZ should disembark all that is in its bags drawers hard. It would be better if they landed everything they have in their bags that they've sown this year, but it's going to be a lot harder. But everything they have regarding the documentation they'd have to land and surrender. And according to this law, the HDZ should do it for the first year of the Croatian state, but you do not want it, and it is obvious what your intention is. And what we will always fight for is truth, transparency, and whatever this insidious attempt to close the archives I promise you here you will not succeed. We, with a law like this... I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87611	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. We move to Amendment 7 of the Independent Lists Bridges Club in conjunction with Article 6(2). Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87612	The amendment is accepted. In view of the fact that the provision of Article 16 regulates the transmission of materials to the other public authority for the purpose of carrying out activities, this is about the nomotechnical correction of the text of the provision. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87613	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. We move to Amendment 7 of the Independent Lists Bridges Club in conjunction with Article 12. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87614	The amendment is not accepted. In view of the fact that Article 12 is governed by the treatment of material which has expired time-limits, which has no meaning for the current business of the builder of materials or property of archive material or cultural goods. Such material may be excreted and destroyed, and the title above Article 12 shall be fully maintained by the content of this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87615	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87616	Well, as I have already said in previous amendments that do not concern the very measure of the law but concern correction or terminology or the very concepts or better definition of the law, we are convinced that these amendments better define certain things, so I don't know why the Ministry and the Government don't want to accept these amendments. Obviously, the intention is to accept something small to show some kind of openness, but basically as I said at the very beginning, when all amendments would be accepted, it could not fix such a law or change its intention that has been apparent since the beginning. This intention was clear after media data on certain people who were senior officials in both the Republic of Croatia and here in the Croatian Parliament, linked to the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia after it became evident that this current law that was in force actually allowed us to learn many things about people who had a key role, not only in the former regime, but who had moved into this new democratic regime, was clearly in which direction the Government of the Republic of Croatia would go. And here in front of the entire Croatian public I repeat, they say whether the archives are open or closed, most of them are probably removed from the archive or not at all committed or withdrawn, it does not stand. You can never hide everything and hide it. It's impossible, you might as well close your own file, but your name will be found somewhere else. It's about a lot of pages, a lot of pages, and it's impossible to cover it up, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87617	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 9 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Article 12(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87618	It is also not accepted that Article 12(1) is technically neutral and refers to all the materials for which the storage deadlines are prescribed, and after that, the creator may extract the material, destroy, of course, if other criteria are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87619	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87620	So here it is clear, and this is said in the explanation of Amendment 3, the documentary material originally produced in digital form should not and should not be subject to the evaluation process because of its very being, the transition to digital business completely loses the difference between documentary and archive material. It is also necessary to renumber the remaining items of this article for the purpose of adding a new paragraph. So we wanted to do everything to fix this irreparable law, but we see from now on how this whole situation develops that, to show some kind of a minimum of openness, you're only going to accept some petty corrections, but I repeat again that you accept all these amendments, it wouldn't change the essence of this law itself, which is to close the personal files of people who were victims, it's about 80,000 files, and only through the files of those people we can get to the stalker. It's the only way. It's rare that those who had the victim's record, as a victim, as one who was persecuted, had the victim's record, or that they had a file from which we could find out that they were stalkers. We can only do it through the victim's file and it happened in this case that I was talking about. No colleague found in his personal file, he was found in the victim's file as an operational link. In the victim's file and in the victim's files, we can find the stalkers, and your goal is to close it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87621	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move to Amendment 10 of the Club's representative of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Article 12(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87622	The amendment is not accepted. All public documentation shall be subject to the evaluation process and the prescribed storage time limits. The creator cannot be obliged to keep at his expense material that does not have the property of archival material or cultural goods, i.e. it is not relevant for the current business of the creator himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87623	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87624	Well, these are always the same or the same here. It's about concept, it's about concepts, it's about us trying to explain what the difference between something that is archival material, which is documentary material, how to distinguish it from each other, especially when it's out of the archive. It's that there's no difference between something that's created in digital form or something that's created in other forms, and that's one big challenge where we try to clarify the terminology, but it seems that the Ministry of Culture doesn't want to hear about it at all. Why? Because they would admit that they do not practically know the problem itself and that the only intention was to pass the law as soon as possible, but certain situations that occurred in the public space slowed them down a little bit, especially this case I was talking about, after which this process of passing a new law was significantly slowed down and waited for this practically this month in which we have a world championship, in which we have a series of laws and regulations here in the Croatian Parliament. I don't know, we've had seven and a half days on the agenda, my colleagues from the SDP have given INA and HEP an impelation, it was a debate here at 9:00 p.m. last night, no one knows it was debated here in the Croatian Parliament at all. As of Monday, we start working again, as many laws as possible, tickling for the ruling majority, will refer to the procedure, push through somehow the opposition of these proposals, which are dangerous for the ruling and them as soon as possible to discuss and thus conclude the whole story. But the people remember, and the people will remember what you do. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87625	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We move on to amendment number 11 of the club's representatives of the independent lists. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87626	The amendment is not accepted because the public archives responsible should be submitted to the public archive material in order, recorded, in rounded units, technically equipped in digital form which is suitable for permanent storage and which precedes the selection of this material from the documentary material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87627	Thank you very much. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87628	So the term selection is not defined by law, and also in the provisions that make up this chapter is not regulated at all and does not mention selection. So we want to correct what can be fixed, but obviously there is no hearing about it and here I don't know what more we can talk about here, this as much as we can, but to the Ministry of Culture, Minister Obulen, Andrej Plenkovic and his colleagues, it doesn't matter. So they decided, they have a clear intention and they decided to spend today, and we will see if Peter Škorić will help them in that way, whether Ivan Šipic will help them in that direction, whether he will help them to help them with the other HDZ colleagues. Will you play for a colleague today, or will you work for the Croatian people today, for the future, for the truth, on a healthy basis? We'll see how you vote, if you vote to close the archives. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87629	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Moving to Amendment No. 12. Representatives' club for Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87630	The amendment is not accepted as the existing formulation of the provision allows public authorities not to hand over public archive material within 30 years of its creation, if I stress it necessary for them to carry out their activities. In that case, these bodies shall send a notice to the competent national archive and shall specify the time limit in which the material will be submitted. The specified material is available to the creator before handover, again stressing to the competent archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87631	Thank you, Mr. Polièka. Here's a colleague of Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87632	Dear Secretary of State, of course, I do not accept your argument for the sake of clarity of expression this deadline is precise, it is necessary to specify precisely because the regulation of exceptions without their detailed explanation would allow the conduct of the contrary to the fundamental purpose of this law, in particular, in relation to the surrender and availability of archival material originating by 22 December 1990, which is now being moved counter-lustration on 30 May, and thus the screw facts closes the archive. So you know exactly what material it's about. It's about the materials of the Yugoslav communist secret service. And what ministry does this material need for operational action unless this action is directed, and it does not take place as a continuation of exactly this Yugoslav communist action? Here we open up the possibility of arbitrarily acting in a way that any minister, by political decision, is aware of which bodies are primarily SOAs and the Ministry of Interior refuses, and this seems to be until today to hand over archives for Yugoslav communist reasons because they need them for the ongoing operational action. So what are we talking about? On which the ongoing operational action is concerned unless, at the head of these ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior or the head of the Secret Service, not people who grew up and became familiar with this period and with this Yugoslav communist material. It's part of it now, but soon it won't be and we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87633	I thank my colleague Hasanbegovic. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 13. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87634	The amendment is not accepted because it is a matter of classified data passing the declassification procedure in accordance with the Data Securitisation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87635	Thank you very much. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87636	So, dear Secretary of State, it's clear what the intention was of what we suggested. Under the law, the law cannot be amended. And we're asking that this be clearly defined, so it's put in, that is, by a sublegal act passed under the law. You can't sublaw, that's your intention, that you decide what will be available and what will not be available, by sublegal acts to decide what will be available and what will not be available. It's clear what your intentions are. It's unfortunate that we couldn't conclude this theme of archives. I think that the Croatian people are sick of these stories, that they're interested in the economy, that they're interested in prosperity, that they're interested in discharging entrepreneurs, that they're interested in opening jobs. And that's why you, who talk about lustration from the election cycle to the election cycle, talk about dealing with the past, which makes you a political option that never talked about. Before the local elections, he writes you the law and opens the archives. To conclude this story more that this was done by historians and you couldn't last another year because immediately after a few months you started making a new law, but certain situations that came out in the media slowed you down a little, and you're here today in the summer practically, when no one almost follows you decided to close the archives. It won't work out for you, we'll find a way around what you intend to do. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87637	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Amendment No. 14. Representatives' club for Croatia, first minister, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87638	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as for the previous 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87639	Would you like to explain the amendment? Mr. Hasanbegovic, I didn't see you in the corner there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87640	So I can only repeat the fundamental fact known to every student in the first year of law school. Therefore, the additional conditions can only be prescribed by the law of the same rank. Here it is quite clear, not hidden, but an open intention to create fluid legal principles which will then be completely trampled and given them a different legal meaning through the politically-determined rule. Without the illusion that it will be accepted, like all other amendments, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87641	Thank you very much. We're going to the vote. Did you ask for a vote or not? Okay, I just jumped in, Mr. Hasanbegovic. [[Intruder Hasanbegovic: I think you can vote, though.]] Amendment 15, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87642	The amendment shall not be accepted since the provision of paragraph 4 has been formulated in such a way as to prescribe the conditions of the handover of the material in both analogue and digital form as from that material to which it is converted into a digital form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87643	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87644	So here we are again explaining the difference that I've been trying to explain to the secretary of state this whole time, but it doesn't seem to work. So there's a difference between something that's created in digital form and other material. Something that was created in digital form should not go through these procedures because to store such data it takes much less space. We're already in the digital age, Secretary of State. Moreover, when something is produced in digital form, there is no difference between the original and the copy. I don't know how to explain it to you, and we're trying through these amendments to actually a little wake you up and remind you that we're in the 21st century. I'm not doing it at all, here, and through these amendments, but also through these arguments here that I'm constantly giving you, I'm trying to explain to you the difference between the materials that occurred in digital form and the materials that were created in other forms. And we're trying to fix this bad law of yours, we can't change your intentions, unfortunately, we've made sure of that, it's clear what your intentions are, but at least when you're doing what you're about to do, so don't be embarrassed. So you decided to do something, we can't change your intentions, you decided to close the archives, but at least as a Croatian government and we're citizens of the Republic and parliamentary representatives, so at least don't be embarrassed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87645	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment 16. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists. Secretary of State, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87646	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous 15th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87647	Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87648	So there is no need for any longer explanation since it is the same struggle that is impossible for the Secretary of State and the Government to explain. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87649	Amendment number 17. The Club of Representatives also Most Independent Lists. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87650	The amendment is not accepted, given that it is material necessary for the public authority to carry out its activities and therefore does not have to be handed over to the competent national archive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87651	Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87652	So it's the same challenge but only here is a little bit different and an additional explanation and an explanation of the request. So the amendment is proposed to specify that the provision applies only to materials that did not originally occur in digital form. So for the material originally produced in digital form, there's no obstacle to handing over a digital copy at any time. So at any point, Secretary of State. And that's what we're trying to say here, but obviously there's no hearing. The intentions are clear, and what I can only regret is that it is not easy for the government to do something that is good. But even when he does something that's good, it goes in less than a year to change. This is what I can't figure out and what it all is because you have to be aware of one fact, a lot of people in this period were narrowly in the building of the Croatian National Archives something that was once available cannot be made available again. And you are constantly forgetting it and doing one shame to this government, HDZ, to go in a single attempt that can only embarrass you and in which you cannot succeed. And that's what's sad. So much of your desire and so much of your attitude to go do something but actually the odds of doing anything, all you can do is further embarrass yourself and show that HDZ protects the persecutors, protects those who did what they did in the communist regime. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87653	Thank you, too. Amendment number 18, Club of Representatives of MOST as well. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87654	The amendment is not accepted since the provision of this chapter refers to the availability of public archive material which makes the selected public document material so that the indication of public documentary material here is completely excessive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87655	Would you like to explain, Mr. Grmoya? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87656	So, since it's an art. 18.St. 1. prescribed that the material is available for use from the beginning, it should be specified that the provisions of this chapter refer both to public documentary and public archive material because at the time of creation it is not known what will be the result of the evaluation process and whether some part of the documentary material will become part of the archive material or not. And that's why it's necessary to specify that because we don't know what's going to become of the documentary material. I can't possibly understand that the Ministry of Culture after two readings, after all we've been told, what we've been warning here, presented everything well-intentioned because what you're going to do we can't stop. He will raise his colleagues from HDZ hands, and then he will raise Miro Kovac's hand, then he will talk about his struggle for lustration in the next election campaign. Davor Ivo Stier will raise his hand today and then sell to Croatian voters the same story again. We can't influence that, but at least then you could define the concepts more precisely and not be ashamed in front of the Croatian public. At least you could have done it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87657	Thank you. Amendment No. 19th, also the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Mr. Polièka, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87658	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the previous 18th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87659	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the Most want to explain the amendment? Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87660	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you have appointed in this law on archives or lex-columns to fulfil your obligation to the people who created this government, which is Vladimir Seks. Of course it was awkward to come to the minister here, that you came to defend this closing archive after a year after the archive was opened. And I'm really interested in how you're going to vote on your HDZ colleagues, I can see they're gone, but in very little numbers, they're going to vote on closing the archives, and they're calling for lustration. You all refuse amendments in essence without any explanation other than an explanation, the only reason you have is that your only purpose is to close the archives and archives from the communist period. How will you explain this to your constituents who are always invited before the lustration elections? So let's let the historians deal with history. This law is a lex-college, we can call it a lex-college, it's come as a commitment, Your Honor, to fulfill, you're aware that you're closing the archive now, you know that. But this is your obligation to whoever created this government in this way, in a way that is tradeable, non-democratic and against the will of the people. And after a year of those who voted for the Archives Act, they will now have to vote to close the archives. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87661	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. Now we move on to Amendment No. 20. Also club representatives of the Independent Lists. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87662	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87663	The representative of the Most, Mr. Grmoya, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87664	So it's quite clear that we can't know if it's something documentary, whether it's archive material if it's outside the archives, and if it hasn't passed that material, it hasn't passed certain procedures. But it's clear to everyone but the Secretary of State, except Minister Ouljen, except Andrej Plenkovic. Here, I don't know, my colleague Bulj mentions a colleague that he's actually the author of this law. I don't know if he's the author of the Law, but he's hit by this law that's in force. He was hit and had to hire an entire team, he said he hired a team and entered the Croatian State Archives and that his team found that he was not an associate. What else would his team be able to determine? But the papers show the opposite. And of course they're hit with it, but what's the problem, fellow Bull, is that there are very few people who are willing to deal with it. It's thousands and thousands of pages. It takes time to study it, and they are aware of it, and they want to pass this Law as soon as possible. It's a huge building, it's a fund with hundreds of thousands of pages that would reveal a lot that they're not doing what they're doing. But we'll find a way to repeat how to get to that. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87665	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. Moving to Amendment No. 21st also Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87666	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87667	A representative of the Most, if he wishes to explain, Mr. Bulj, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87668	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you can't determine by this law that we know what archival material is. You left it essentially a space that can be manipulated, and basically everything that's with the aim of your colleague Grumoja is saying closing the archives. This law closes the archives and our public needs to know. The HDZ colleagues must also know about their coalition partners. Here, colleague Kirin, you're closing the archives today if you raise your hand for this. You need to know that. Don't fall for deception. And a year ago, you voted for the MOST's proposal to open the archives and, of course, before the election, any one of you will call again for lustration because that's the only way to deceive people, how you get voters. And this is Law and Obligation, I see no more colleagues from HDZ here, the only thing you've gone to is that I don't know why they don't listen to this very important law that they're getting elections to and from election to election, lustration, so let's give the historians the profession to enter the archives according to the law because the current archive is open. And today you will vote if you raise your hand on closing the archives. I am sorry that there are no colleagues, Šipic, that there are no colleagues Mira Kovaca, that there are no colleagues of my Djakic and many other colleagues, even Miljan Brkic has now called if they would be uncomfortable with Mr Furio Radin coming to listen if he does not know how he will call for lustration in the next election. What kind of model are they going to find now? They think they'll forget in five days. It's a short head for the people. You simply have an obligation to shut this down according to the welder of this law, and that's a colleague. This is a lex colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87669	Comrade Bulj, time Thank you, Mr. Bull. [[Intruder Bull: We are looking for a vote.]] We move to Amendment 22 of the Advocacy Lists Bridge Club. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87670	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87671	Now Mr. Grmoya will give an explanation on behalf of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87672	In view of the fact that Article 18(1) provides that the material is available for use from the beginning, it is necessary to specify that the provision refers to both public documentary and public archive material because, at the moment of its creation, I repeat again, it is not known what will be the result of the evaluation process and whether some part of the documentary material will become part of the archive material or not. It is unacceptable to introduce a category of material which is not submitted to the competent archive and by discretionary assessment of the unknown person. What's this about? This implies that there is a danger that certain material will not be submitted to the archive. And who decides that? Some discretionary assessment that something will not be given. I can't understand what you're trying to do here, what you're trying to do. And the craziest thing you've been doing for days was the Minister of the Day on the HRT story of opening the archives of the UDBA and then she's the head of the asking what you're opening up to right now, she's executed the poor thing that a woman is going to do because she knows she's cheating on the public. That at this point, everything's open and you're gonna close it. Well, it's embarrassing to watch you honk over the media to open archives, and you're actually closing them. And the archives are open right now. It makes me uncomfortable, if you don't mind me looking at it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87673	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. Moving to Amendment 23. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87674	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87675	Mr. Bully will explain it in the name of the Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87676	Thank you very much. You cannot answer the question i.e. And in the discussion of what is archival material, who will determine, who is defined and competent to determine archival material, who has this discretionary right, which colleague, who will do it? And you clearly and loudly intend to close the archive material from the communist period, it is your only interest and you know it, dear secretary, that we are closing the material today and that colleagues from HDZ and most of them will vote on this law, in fact, which they opened the archive material last year. I'm sorry she wasn't a minister, when there was a debate here it was hard to watch because she was aware she wasn't giving any explanations. The media tried through the cover you tried to drag through to open UDBA archive material we're opening archive material. It's manipulation and a lie. In today's day, you're closing the communist-era archives, and we need to make it public. And I really want to know how the HDZ colleagues are going to vote for the public because when they go around the village then they convince people of lustration, they deceive people. So let's give it time to history, to historians, to explore this period, not to manipulate our citizens and bring them back to history. They're all interested in manipulation, and you have this obligation to whoever created this government, who made this upstairs balcony a finger, you remember like this, that he's been chickening in the halls like this to catch some MPs. I'm asking that this amendment to the Lex fellow law be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87677	Thank you. Moving to Amendment 24. Are you sure 100 years is enough? Try to calculate. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87678	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 18th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87679	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87680	Therefore, given that Article 18(1) is prescribed that the material is available for use from the beginning, it is necessary to specify that the provision refers to both public documentary and public archive material because at the time of the creation it is not known, I repeat again, which will be the evaluation process. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87681	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya. We move to Amendment 25 of the Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87682	The amendment is not accepted. The archives are responsible for the preservation and protection of public archive materials and implement and measures to conceal the identity of persons, i.e. the anonymity of creators and holders of public archival material created by 30 May 1990, are also obliged to ensure that it is available in accordance with the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87683	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya will explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87684	So it's about not understanding the basic concepts of the Secretary of State, Minister Ouljeno, who has not had the courage to appear here today on the basis of these amendments. We can see there's no colleagues from HDZ, and they're not comfortable listening to the truth either. The truth is sometimes very unpleasant, the truth seeks to conceal itself with this law, and it also seeks to bypass a debate in which you have no arguments in which we are aware that your intentions have been revealed, that we have realized long ago what you want and that here you have no minimum correctness to accept those amendments that seek to improve the law itself, and that this intention that you intend to implement will not change in any significant way. These amendments will not leave archives open, what we are discussing now, but will at least improve certain things a little bit, and in the process it will define what is documentary, which archive material and will introduce the right concepts, but you do not want to hear it. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87685	Thank you, Mr. Grmoya. We move to Amendment 26 always of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87686	The amendment is not accepted because it is personal data contained in public archive material, i.e. material selected from public documentary material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87687	Mr. Bully will explain the amendment on behalf of the Most, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87688	Thank you very much. Secretary, the ministry didn't purposely define what archive material is, which is documentary, that's your goal and interest. But it's time, and that's why we opened the archives, to find out who was responsible for the murders of Bruno Busic, the Ševo family, the numerous murders that took place in the country and outside the country, the numerous murders to which colleagues were called in the Assembly. What are you closing it for? Why don't we find out the truth where certain people's bones are and you don't know about them from that time? According to numerous caves, what are you hiding that information for? What are you closing that for? Which is why these families wouldn't find out where those bones of dead people who were just patriots, only without a court, without any democratic processes, were killed. What are you doing this for? Why are you closing the archive? Why wouldn't the waist go in and solve those problems? Many worship here my colleagues from HDZ over the wells known and unknown. Why don't we once solve it if scientists, historians determine the actual condition and find out who the murderers are, who the bloodthirsty of these people who are not guilty of anything except patriots, patriots, patriots, were not haters? Why are you closing the archives? What's the reason? So here's only because of these people I mentioned, several murders, where the entire families and vanca in immigration were killed in the Republic of Croatia, so why are you closing the archives? What's the reason? If the archive is open, if it's allowed for historians and people to come in, everyone who wants to deal with finding out, so at least where are the bones of these people by numerous pits. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Bull.]] And who the murderers are. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87689	Thank you. We move on to Amendment 27 always Club Representative of the Independent Lists. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87690	The amendment is not accepted because the provision prescribes that the technical measures referred to in the preceding paragraph are taken in such a way that the original archive material is not damaged or destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87691	Mr Grmoya, on behalf of the promoter of the MoST amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87692	It is therefore that Article 18(1) provides that the material is available for use from the beginning. It is necessary to specify, repeat, that the provision applies to both public documentary and public archive material because we cannot know what is before the procedure itself, which is archival and what document material. But I'd like to warn you of one fact, you said here earlier, that the creators determine the rules of availability of materials outside the archives, and now you say the same thing as in the archives, I've written down what you're saying. Will you make up your mind, Secretary of State? Make up your mind. How this process happens. So this mistake of yours is the consequence that you didn't define it in the law itself, so you didn't define something and you don't know for yourself how it should be carried out and then you make these cardinal mistakes here as a representative of the ministry from this pay phone. I demand a vote on this amendment, and it would be best if you wait to vote on the law itself, tell the prime minister to withdraw from the vote this law and that this goes all the way to the third reading, although in the third reading itself, the question is what will we be able to correct from this law. It is necessary to write a whole new law or not to touch anything in terms of what has been made changes more than a year ago. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87693	Thank you. Amendment number 28 of the Most Independent List Representatives Clubs is now coming up. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87694	The amendment is not accepted. The provision refers to public archive material, hence the selected document material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87695	In the name of the Most will speak, explain Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87696	We are also asking again that your mistakes that you have not defined here, public archive and public document material simply to whom you have given the right to be the one to determine which archive material is and how it will be determined. But the fact and colleagues of the bush and the club MOST and the colleagues of the HDZ who are here would be good to pass on and if they listen that somewhere in their offices they are now under these laps or in some caves here in the basements where they are found to hear that it would be best to withdraw this, that this is a shameful law which essentially voted on last year's opening of the archives, now on closure, a law that is not defined, which leaves a number of questionnaires, a law to which it is the sole obligation, the creator of this law which is the creator and these governments to withdraw this law, would be the most noble thing that could happen in this case and most useful for the archival, for the archive. That's what would be noblest. However, I am sorry that they are not here and it will be neat at the vote, they will raise their hands and their colleagues, Šipić and Kovač and their colleagues, Brkić and everyone who is here, they are invited, they are always often called to lustration, to fundamental values, I don't know what. On this day of day, if they vote on this law and support it, they are essentially losing all credibility. That's why they're not here in the Parliament. Now they're not interested in this topic. For what? Which is why now they're not suddenly interested in this and in the campaign of lustration, lustration, lustration, better to speak lies, deceive you folks, while the robbery of states we'll talk about lustration, let's give this to historians, let's give this to the profession and close this story. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87697	Thank you. Amendment No. 29th also Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87698	The amendment is not accepted since the date of 30 May 1990 was elected as a borderline period between the non-democratic regime and the democratically elected authority, while considering the establishment of a new Croatian Parliament elected in the first multilateral parliamentary elections and the transfer of power at all levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87699	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya will explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87700	We, according to this current law, which was practically our proposal that we succeeded here before the local elections when HDZ voted for it because he feared the results in the local elections managed to get it open until December 22nd, '90. And now it's coming back a few months ago, it closes this period of transition from communist to democratic system when many of the former regimes have moved into this new system, taken important positions in society, and now it wants to be closed under some kind of story that it means 30.5th important date, of course, but it has nothing to do with this bill and the intention we had in passing the law itself. He says, that's what I said here in the debate when it was, the director of the state archive Dinko Cutura recently gave a statement and the media passed on, says those 7 months that were open and now we're going to close those 7 months after what colleagues from HDZ propose is the period of the creation of a modern Croatian state and each state protects its secrets. So if it is to believe the statement of Cutur's creation of the Croatian state is covered by a secret that is not for us ordinary mortals. And I asked here from this pay phone if this Cuturna statement has anything to do with Milanovic King-Kong, we have no answer to that question for now, but it is clear what the intention is, to close what has been opened so far, and not to find out who everyone from the former system, who are the persecutors, who are the associates of the former system ended up in HDZ. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87701	Amendment No. The 30th is the same as the 29th, but in any case we will treat it in this form, in this procedure as we have today, we will treat it as if it were a new amendment. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87702	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for the 29th same amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87703	Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87704	Dear Secretary of State, this may be the key point of this insidious anti-lustration cowardly egg of the law. Therefore, by shortening the legal deadline from the existing law from 22 December 1990 to 30 May 1990, the availability of public archive material in a key period of beginning of a double transition or transition from a unilateral non-democratic system to a multi-party parliamentary order is limited. So this is the moment when the five-point turns into Croatian coat of arms and when it was conceived not in the context of this law, the Croatian state but a deep state of conglomerates of various business, para-intelligence, political and ideological interests that captured Croatian society and state until our day. I ask the HDZ what your motives are, and why does each of you individually accept carrying the burden of counter-lustration levers through the closure of the archives? So why are you doing what hasn't been recorded in Lukashenko's Belarus? So gentlemen of the HDZ, we will remind you every day by name and name of that fact, there is none of you, especially we will remind each and every one of you, the names of you so-called. a Christian, anti-Communist and conservative. We demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87705	Thank you, time. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists has amendment number 31. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87706	It shall not be accepted with the same explanation as in the 29th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87707	Would anyone like to take a word on behalf of the promoter? Here you go, Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87708	Dear Secretary of State, we will therefore request a vote on this amendment. I think it's much fairer and more honest to say what Mr. Cudtura said, so every state has its secrets, should clearly tell the Croatian public that, therefore, we are closing the archives precisely because some people who were in the UDBA, in the security services, were stakeholders here in some way, in a political way, who from the 1990s were present in the political system, we do not want to know. That's legitimate, but I think you have to say it publicly. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87709	Thank you very much. Number 32, Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87710	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as for Amendment 29.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87711	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasanbegovic, I presume.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87712	Remind me, please, what's this about, you didn't say What is the legal article? [[/Intruder Radin: 32.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87713	You want me to read it to you? Article 20(1) is amended and reads "public archive material has been created.../ Yeah, yeah. [[/Intruding Hasanbegovic: You are talking about item 1.]] I'll read you your amendment so you can remember, can I? [[/Invader Hasanbegovic: Which item is he talking about?]] [[Bukarica raid: Item 1]] The public archive material created by 22 December 1990 is available for use without restrictions other than the cities referred to in Article 18(4) and paragraph 5 of this Act and the materials prescribed in Article 19 of this Act, that is your amendment. He wants to explain it? Paragraph 1, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87714	I will repeat once again, so this article of the Government's legislative proposal is key proof that it is an anti-lustration coward's egg which closes the archive against the existing legal situation. So, once again I call on HDZ deputies to show their conscience, I wonder if there will be one among them who, in accordance with his conscience, refuses to vote for this counter-lustration legislative proposal, or if everyone will act in this particular case as from their sister party in June 1991 when they withdrew and fled the assembly, when they voted on Croatian state independence. There was also a representative in HDZ who would play an honorary and forgotten representative, Marko Vlasic, from Korčula, who refused to submit to the party's path, stayed in the Croatian Parliament and voted for Croatian state independence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87715	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. Would you like to vote for the amendment? ... Thank you very much. [[Intruder Hasanbegovic, not understood.]] Moving to Amendment 33. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87716	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87717	Thank you very much, the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Moving to Amendment 34. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Here you go, pal Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87718	The amendment is not accepted. This condition should not be entered in order to allow the availability of data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87719	Thank you very much. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87720	So it's proposed to edit the text in a way that clearly distinguishes the categories of persons whose personal data are not protected, that's a total of 3 different categories. And these persons who acted as public officials and persons who were members, employees of some of the security services, which respects the fact that there were more security services and persons who were not public officials or members of some of the security services but worked with security services or other bodies in such a way as to participate in the violation or restriction of human rights and fundamental freedoms of third parties, which respects the fact that they did not exclusively protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. So, this amendment that the HDZ colleagues gave where they corrected that mistake we warned them about, so the ally itself has changed, nothing changes to things. Why? Because it was not changed that you stated that there was one security service, there were more of them, you did not appreciate the fact that they were rarely defined as service associates, that there were persons who were not defined and that they co-operated either with services or with other bodies. We define everything in our amendment, but you want to protect such persons. You want to protect those operational connections, and we know who the operational link was. That's what you want to protect, and it's unfortunate that it's supported by those who sell themselves as great patriots, who want to clear up with the communist past, but they won't. If they press green for this law today, they won't forget it, and they won't get away with it. Vice President Brkic, if you support today this law on archives closing down, you will no longer pass the story of the lustration of the communist past. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87721	Thank you. Comrade Grmoy, please do not belittle anyone and you are not here to call anyone. You're looking for a vote, thank you very much. We are moving to Amendment 35 of the Independent Club for Croatia in conjunction with Article 20(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87722	The amendment is not accepted because this condition does not need to be entered in order to allow the availability of data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87723	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87724	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Your answer is underestimating common sense. So it can't be an explanation because it's not necessary. So I'm asking you why it's not necessary? So the least you can do is make an argument. We remind again because of the public we have an existing legal state which opens archives, which are clearly defined so-called. Public officials at all levels are now refusing these amendments, and this legislative proposal is closing the archives. Therefore, the purpose of this amendment is to maintain the availability of data from public archive material from an existing legal solution. The proposed provision in this HDZ against the lustration chicken egg would significantly limit the introduction and availability of existing public archive material, since it opens up the possibility of cumulative application, so now it is the game with the allies by which the restrictions would apply only to persons who were at the same time public officials and co-workers of the security service. So the amendment made it clear that the security service in one should be replaced by the notion of the security service in the majority, since more state security services worked in the Yugoslav communist system. If you do not know that you do not have to ask historians, ask some of the prominent party officials, ask some of the ministers in today's Croatia... /The speakers speak at the same time./... the facts about the existence of several secret services. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87725	Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 36 of the Independent Club for Croatia in conjunction with Article 20 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87726	The amendment is not accepted because the transitional provision of Article 57 provides that the creators of the public archive material established by 30 May 1990 are obliged to ensure its availability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87727	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hasanbegovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87728	So now I remind you of one bizarreness. You have now mentioned in your answer the word holder, the same notion that you refused to include in this legislative proposal to our first amendment. That's when you reached out to the argument that the law doesn't know the concept of the owner, and now you mention the owners. So which owners are it? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87729	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. We move to Amendment 37 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 21. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87730	The amendment is not accepted in view of the fact that Article 30 is stated that public archive services are performed by state archives and archives of local and regional (regional) self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87731	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87732	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary, in Article 21, the word public archive material would be replaced by public documentary material and public archive material, if you did not define this law, which is where public document material belongs. You've been refusing such an amendment all along and you don't want to specify it and whether it's part of the documentary material whether it's going to become an archive material or not. Who's going to determine that? But it's much more important for you here, with reasons and not accepting our amendments from the government and the minister, is, of course, your employer lex colleague this law as I have called it, it's much more important for you to get through this. You're not comfortable listening to all this because you're aware that we're right. you are aware that on today's day, colleagues from HDZ and coalition partners and I do not know what will happen to others that will vote on this law. I can't believe that because of all the killings during the communist regime, I mentioned the numerous murders from Djurkovic, whose trial was next to the Ševo family, which doesn't know what happened, Bruno Busic and many other immigrants that in Croatia you are closing the truth and history and profession to find those who did it and to get the facts out of hand. I do not believe that Mr. Millian Brkic will vote for this law, I cannot believe that you will close this archive today, I cannot believe that this will be done by colleague Schuker, colleague Boric everyone, colleague Jelkovac, I cannot believe. Maybe it's funny, but I can't believe we opened the archives together last year, let those people go, and now you're going to vote for a lex colleague. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87733	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Comrade Bull, I understand your niche, but you don't have to teach me patriotism, you don't have to teach me any of your colleagues here. I was taught patriotism by my late father and mother, and we live with patriotism every day by our actions. ... And as I vote, that's my business, I certainly won't listen to you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We therefore move to Amendment number 38 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Article 21(1). Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87734	The amendment is not accepted because the archives store public archive material, hence the selected public document material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87735	Thank you. The answer of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Grmoy, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87736	So it's the same challenge we have here from the very beginning, but the secretary of state doesn't want to accept the arguments, and the truth is what my colleague Bulj is saying, colleagues from HDZ will mean today to close the archives, and that's true, that was the intention from the very beginning when we made them change the law on archival material and archives before the local elections to support it because they were afraid of the results in the elections that their electoral body would realize that they were actually being deceived, talking about illustrations, and they didn't do anything about it because they could illustrate who they were? Only yourself. If HDZ were illustrated, Croatia would be illustrated, but they cannot be illustrated because key people who are today pulling ends within the Croatian democratic community are actually co-workers of these services. The man who boasted that he had encouraged Ivan Vrdoljak to coalition with HDZ through certain checkpoints is actually according to documentation that came out of the service associate. And how will HDZ illustrate Croatia if it should illustrate itself? And that's why here the colleagues you've come up with will support this bill. He won't listen to you, Mr. Bulj, he won't listen to you, but he'll listen to his colleague, he'll listen to Andrej Plenkovic, he'll listen to Nina Obulen, and what they've been up to since the beginning, he'll intend to do today, and he'll do it just like communist Yugoslavia's had employers, executives, and today he'll be his colleagues from HDZ, and we all know exactly who the employers are. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87737	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We shall move to the 39th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Article 21(2). Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87738	The amendment is not accepted because this issue is governed by the general acts of the creator of the materials and by a special law, for example by the Law on the right to access information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87739	Thank you. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87740	Dear Secretary of State, the Croatian public wants to know who was persecuting Cardinal Stepinco, who was persecuting Mr Vlad and Mark Veselic. So by not accepting the amendments, there is a secret to the archives, and here I am going to tell one truth, so the Romanian government is closing corrupt politicians, judges and directors, and the Croatian government is closing the archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87741	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. Are you asking for a vote? A colleague of the Ice creams? Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 40 of the Independent List Bridges Club in conjunction with Article 21(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87742	The amendment is not accepted because the archive contains public archive material, i.e. the selected public document material and the proposed provision is therefore inadmissible in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87743	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87744	It is therefore proposed to introduce a category of archives that behave as a public archival service because this concept is wider than the state archives and archives of units of local and regional self-government and also more practical to use. As I have been saying since the beginning here, we have tried this bad law of yours, which is much worse, one very bad intention to close the archives, correct that the Croatian Government and the Ministry are not ashamed. We tried to clarify the concepts, define certain things, but you accepted a single amendment that practically means nothing, but as I said at the very beginning that you accepted all the amendments, it would not change your intention, and we will see if your intention will support your colleagues from HDZ. There aren't many of them here in the assembly, they weren't almost any of them at one point, but here some have come, we'll see what they decide today, how they will vote, whether to lead their own conscience, I'm curious about how fellow Stier, colleague Kovac, colleague Brkic, colleague Šipic, colleague Šuker told me that he is particularly sensitive on this issue, that he does not want to close the archives, so we'll see how he will vote today. I want to believe him, I want to believe that he's not the one who wants to participate in this dirty business of closing the archives, I want to believe that he has a spine and his conscience and that today he's going to vote against this bill and I'm going to congratulate him first here and give him support. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87745	Thank you. We move to Amendment number 41 of the Representatives' Clubs of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 21(3), (4) and (5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87746	The amendment is not accepted since the question of compensation for the use of public archive material is regulated by the Regulation and the exemption from the cost is provided for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87747	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87748	Well, here we are, with the closure and we see that in this case we have a restraining order... i.e. mobile phone records in the archive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is another of the additional things that are closing this archive, and indeed after all this it would be best to withdraw this law that those who listen to your employers are aware that you can't defend this here, that colleagues in HDZ are aware that they can't be in the assembly, and here they are calling on the archives, because we have to leave the archive open and because, as my colleague Sladolev said, my son Mark Happy, his persecutors, to see how these people lived, so the Croatian springers who preceded the Croatian states and the many people who fought. Why shut down from historians and people who did this job, professionally, shut down archives? For what? Why wouldn't I know what was going on with Mark Happy and other people of that time? These are symbols of resistance and struggle for an independent Republic of Croatia. I'm Mark Happy. The club of the councilman of the Most Sinj proposed to bust in Sinj. But that's not enough. We need to investigate who his persecutors are, who are in the pits of the dead bones of those who threw without trial, without judgment. Let's see who the associates of that time are. I don't believe, I really don't, I can't, that my colleagues from HDZ will vote for this law. Here, me and my colleague Šipic, he's not here, he's been here for a while, so he's gone, and I don't think he'll be able to explain it in Cetina Krajina to people why. Or colleague Culey says he'll vote. I can't believe it, here. I really can't believe they're going to vote on closing these people's archives. So let's leave it to the historians, let our people explore that time, and let one day stand still, and not just before the elections to call for lustration. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87749	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Moving to Amendment 42. Representatives' Club for Croatia in connection with art. 21st century 3. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87750	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous 41st amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87751	Thank you. Dear colleague Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87752	Your Honor, Secretary of State. The purpose of this amendment is to enable the use of archival material to all interested citizens, which would significantly limit this same insight and use by introducing fees without clearly prescribed conditions. In addition, the proposed amendment is an integral part of the existing legal solution. As a historian, I felt on my skin for years, which means completely irrationally imposing financial obligations on banal copying documents, which was actually an indirect instrument of limiting and preventing the use of archive material. So, this amendment is an integral part of an existing legal solution, as was an integral part of this legal solution and a deadline, a clearly prescribed deadline for handing over archival material to the Croatian state archive, which is now being abolished by this anti-lustration cowardly egg, and without surrendering to the archive and without the availability of the entire law becomes immaterial. An integral part of this Law is our amendment to which your... the formulation of public service managers, co-workers or those who cooperated with the security service in fact clearly explain who these behaviours are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, all the employees of the specifically mentioned service of the Yugoslav communist apparatus, which you are now canceling.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87753	Thank you, dear colleague Hasanbegovic. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87754	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87755	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 43. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Art. 21, century 6. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87756	The amendment is not accepted since it is handed over to the competent state archives to keep public archive material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87757	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87758	We've been having the same argument here the whole time, but I can see that the secretary of state doesn't want to hear anyone here from the MPs. It is sad to see that this way goes into the amendments to a law that opened the archives, which made them available to those who are historians, researchers, but also to the general Croatian public and is good to my colleague Bulj, it is shown here. The HDZ colleagues are embarrassed to listen to the truth, listen to the arguments, they would like to sleep through all this, and only today at the order of Andrej Plenkovic when the vote comes and colleagues squeeze green. That's all we'd like this one to go through, but the Croatian people will remember this. You'll be remembered by your colleagues if you support me, so you're looking at me there, you're not here in the benches. They'll remember for sure if you support a law like this. You've shown that you have a spine already in the Istanbul Convention vote, you disobeyed the party's president, I hope you'll show that same spine today. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87759	Thank you. Moving to Amendment No. 44. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in conjunction with Art. 21, century 7. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87760	The amendment is not accepted because this question is settled. 21st century 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87761	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87762	Thank you very much. Here, documentary material again, you don't know... material. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You didn't define anything. So it's simply this Law that you're closing the archives, a number of ambiguities, but you're leaving the possibility that someone has the right, an individual that has the right to work with an archive of what they want and how they want. This lex-collateral, basically, distinguished secretary, is best to withdraw this law that was made for many to preserve numerous birds of hair, birds of the village, various and domestic birds that do not move, Miller, numerous code names and this lex-collar really is the time to pull it back. I'm asking you here and a colleague is here, very few people are from HDZ, show your consciousness today, vote your conscience, not that proposal that MOST proposed last year about opening an archive that you voted for, colleagues and colleagues, this time to close. Don't do it for the dead, don't do it for the truth, don't do it for those who put this government together so they want to impose their attitude on you. This is Lex Collega, which was drawn up by a man who was worse when the government came together, remember, when his colleague was upstairs on the balcony so when he did his finger like this, he was hectic about how to put together this government, which is an anti-democratic, anti-natural, anti-natural fornication in this government, this is an unimaginable government. Well, I'd like to ask you once again, be credible, here's my colleague Jelkovac once, at the Istanbul Convention she voted on her conscience, I believe most HDZ and colleagues from HDZ will vote on her conscience this time, and I believe that this will also be the vice president of the Parliament and many others, that she will not allow the intention of her colleagues to close the archives. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87763	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Moving to Amendment number 45. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87764	The amendment is not accepted because this provision is contained in Article 21(8).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87765	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87766	I don't know what to say other than what a joke told us here that President of Parliament once, waved at you, didn't wave to them anyway. He warned you, cautioned, the secretary of state is nevertheless, the culture ministry is nevertheless, the Minister is wearing off anyway, the prime minister is however, they have their intention to carry out. There's only one questionnaire left here. Will the task of counterparts, Prime Minister Plenkovic's task as Minister Obuljen, be carried out by HDZ representatives? Is he going to agree to that, and that's the only thing left to question in this whole story? We will see today very soon when they vote in which way they will be asked on this issue. This is an opportunity to position themselves, to show that on such a policy that is intended to protect those who have collaborated with the services of the former regime that such a policy will not support and that they want the truth on a healthy basis, a healthy Croatian society that will leave the past to historians who will deal with the real problems of our society, of course always looking for the truth and insisting on the truth. We will see today as counterpart Bulj said he would vote by his HDZ counterparts, how our vice-president, Miljan Brkic, will vote by counterpart Jelkovac, who will vote by Miro Kovac, will vote by Davor Ivo Stier because if they said they voted on their own conscience, here's the occasion. Here's a chance to show that's how they intend to keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87767	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Grmoya raider: Looking for a vote.]] Next amendment number 46. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87768	The amendment is not accepted as that question is resolved in Article 21(10).
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87769	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87770	Thank you very much. Well, the story repeats itself, but I just don't understand why this law wants to essentially forget the roles and the historical times in fact to be erased, i.e. put yourself back under control, archives have opened up numerous of our people and victims of the communist regime. Here comes another Sinjanin Tihomil Raja, recently built, one great patriot, humanity, a Democrats who has promoted the entire world of HSS to emigration and free Croatia, who has been followed, who has been beaten, imprisoned only because of his love for Croatia, the numerous murderers of our numerous people in immigration and in Croatia, many caves are still unexplored, so why are you protecting murderers, associates of these people? All over the world, Croats fought before the independent state and before us Croatian defenders promoted the truth about the Croatian state. Why are we closing that archive? Because of a couple of birds? Are you protecting them, colleagues? Well, because of those dead bones, let's give them the opportunity to explore, to find out the truth. Crime doesn't get old. A number of Democrats in Croatia have been called in this Croatia that were co-workers of the UDBA. When the crime doesn't get old, we leave the archives open. Why are you closing them? Why are you closing archives, colleagues from HDZ and last year you accepted the MOST proposal only because in local elections, when you did not know how you would explain to your voters why you would not vote for the proposal, and you always call for the same thing, lustration. So let's give the historians who want to explore the truth. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87771	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Moving to Amendment 47. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Here you go, Mr. Policach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87772	It is not accepted and since the previous amendments have not been accepted then this logically adds to it, so neither can it be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87773	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Okay, thank you very much. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] Amendment number 48. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87774	It is also not accepted because it does not comply with the introductory provision of Article 3 of this Act, which clearly defines what is public archival and what is selected public documentary material.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87775	Thank you, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87776	I don't know what arguments to use anymore because the obvious arguments here don't mean anything, it is necessary to complete it as soon as possible, that is, to execute this order from Prime Minister Plenkovic and his chief adviser Vladimir Seks, and this is all that we propose, which stands, which is justified, which is correcting the law itself, they don't want to hear it at all. They only accepted one amendment and that's all. But I repeat again that they have accepted all amendments, it would not alter the intention of this law, which has been apparent since the very beginning, the only purpose and purpose of this law is to close the archives. Who is being protected by the secretary of state, who is being protected by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is being protected by Minister Obuljen, who is being protected by Vice-President Brkic? Who's being protected by a law like this? We, like I said, will find ways to bypass your law, but I don't know why you should have been so embarrassed in front of the Croatian public. First with the intention itself, and then with the execution that you have brought here before us through this law. The law is very bad, we're looking for a third reading, although that third reading won't change anything, it won't change the intention itself, but at least one longer period will leave the archives open. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87777	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We are moving to Amendment 49 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 22. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87778	The amendment is not accepted because the title above Article 22 has explicitly reflected the contents of the provision of Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87779	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87780	We suggest introducing a category of archives that behave as a public archival service because this concept spreads state archives and archives of units of local and regional self-government... more practical to use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you don't want it, we repeat a number of amendments here, this law is irreparable, irreparable and best to withdraw it, this is a lex colleague, and of course this law, as my colleague Grumoja said, is just waiting to be executed when you're going to press the green button and close the archive of times of the communist regime and all the victims. I'm sorry there aren't many colleagues here, I'm sorry that colleagues Šipic, Kovac, aren't here to talk, let's see. I believe and now that they will vote against this law, I believe if last year they voted for this law to open the archives that Most proposed, I see no reason why they closed the truth, why they made it impossible for people, historians who wanted to know the truth, and all because of their justice to the people who fought, wrongly suffered, fought for Croatia in that time. The evil is not old, and these are the Mosquitos, and their servants, why do you hide them? Can the dead bones of these people, these families, not know the truth? The crime doesn't get old, it's been called here, crime doesn't get old, but we need to nick, locate, transfer, deliver our generals, we need to deliver all the documents to the Homeland War, we need to do everything. He doesn't open the archives from communist times. And as for the Homeland War, close everything. While Croatia was robbing, while robbing the INA, while robbing the Telecommunications, while robbing Croatia, you arrested all the generals, sent the officials complete documentation to defuse the Homeland War. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87781	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, thank you very much. We move to Amendment number 50 of the Independent Lists Bridge Club in conjunction with Article 22(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87782	The amendment is not accepted as Article 30(1) is determined who performs the public archival service.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87783	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Grmoys.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87784	So what you forgot to mention in the first place, that the National Homeland War Documentary Centre is running a public archival service as a specialized archive, and you forgot that, and I'm not talking about this here, which I'm warning you all about. So what we can't possibly understand is that you've made mistakes like this, that you've forgotten such an important institution that collects construction from the Homeland War and you haven't put it in that institution to perform public archival service, you haven't mentioned it in the law. So what are we talking about here? And that's why you'll vote on your HDZ colleagues for a bill like this. You'll vote for a law like this. Do not lower your head, do not lower your head, do not lower your head, show your spine today, do not vote to close the archive, do not vote to close the archives of your colleague Boric and do not run from the Assembly, do not run from the meeting room of your colleague, Boric. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87785	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. We move to Amendment number 51 of the Representatives' Clubs of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 22(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Dear colleague Poljičak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87786	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous 50th amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87787	Thank you. Answer? No one, thank you. Comrade Bull, please come in before you make an appointment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87788	We agreed, and we know how we're going to vote on this bill, fellow Vice President of the Parliament. I'll tell you, I don't know how you're going to vote. You certainly won't vote like last year when the archive opened. So we agreed on behalf of the club to vote on this, we have a clear view of this. I'm sorry that the Homeland War Documentation Centre and this archival structure were not taken seriously, it's inconclusive for you. Much more serious were the things that colleagues said to arrest, locate, transfer, deliver our most prominent sons to The Hague, the Brussels officials, worship here Karli del Ponte, give them more documentation than has happened, forget about the generals from Croatia, Croatian generals from HVO and it was much more important than, but obviously it doesn't matter to you how important it is to close this archive. If Djakic's Homeland War Documentation Centre is not an archival structure, then what is it? Well, you can't vote now, here's the chairman of the board, the president of HVIDRA, so we can't vote against this, so there's no Documentation Centre isn't an archival structure. Archival construction of fellow Djakic under this law, I expect whoever votes for this to vote against the archives of the Homeland War. Why don't you put secretaries in this law that the archival structure of the Homeland War Documentation Center is very serious? It's not an archival structure, so what's the reason? While at the same time you're protecting the birds of the Kosovos and the numerous names that all have colleagues. It'll be a shame to back this up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87789	Thank you. Dear colleague Bulj Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bulj: I demand a vote by the honourable Vice President of the Parliament.]] I'm asking you to explain the amendments, not to disrespect fellow MPs. We are moving to Amendment 52 of the Representatives' Clubs of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 22(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, pal Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87790	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 50th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87791	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87792	There's no need to talk, but we're still going to talk because we realized that the truth here hurts colleagues from HDZ, many have left the assembly. A colleague Djakic is very nervous, but his colleague Bulj asks him a good question. Within this law there is no mention of the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War to perform a public archival service at all, not mentioned and he will vote for it. But he voted for a lot of things that went against both the defenders and the Homeland War, and it's coming through and he's going to vote and he's going to vote here today to close the archives, he's going to vote to close the archives, and he's going to sell us the same story again. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87793	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. I am really asking you to explain the amendment without disrespecting or calling other agents. The next of your deeds will be a warning for you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87794	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Grmo was injured by Article 238. He began to talk about another topic, started calling, insulting and putting words in his mouth as well as accusing, which absolutely was not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. So I ask you to use article 238, and to give your colleagues a warning so that he will no longer do such acts, or to return to his firm Grizzly again, and let him discuss some topics there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87795	I thank Mr. Djakic, in your injury to the Rules of Procedure, you have done exactly what you expect others do not do to you and I do not think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and I would also ask you not to disrespect other fellow MPs because I will give you a warning, and you will not teach me how I will lead the session. And I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, so I'm asking you in the future not to disrespect any other fellow MPs in your institutes you have. This time you abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure even though you heard earlier that I asked my colleague to be done in such a dictionary in the future. My colleague Bulj, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I hope you don't repeat what my colleague Djakic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87796	I will repeat what I have called for in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you, as chairman, will judge. So you know in advance, you can know in HDZ So he hurt his colleague, Djakic, in his 238th article because he demeaned his colleague Grumo, did he say he was not talking about the subject. [[Invader Brkić: Say it.]] My colleague was just talking about the topic. It's the National War Documentation Center, which is important for this law, and it's in line with this amendment he's given. So, let's face it, Mr. Grmoya's colleague did not speak against the amendment or otherwise, he spoke precisely about the amendment, but it's a shame not to mention in this law the documentation centre, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87797	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been hurt, and I don't think that by saying that he hasn't spoken about the subject in any way belittled but otherwise. We shall move to the next amendment of the Association of Representatives of the Bridges of Independent Lists No 53 in conjunction with Article 22(5). Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87798	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 50th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87799	Thank you. Answer, please, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87800	So it is that we are proposing to introduce a category of archives that behave as a public archival service because this concept is wider than the state archives, the archives of units of local and regional self-government and is also more practical to use. So I've already pointed out on many occasions that this is a bad law, and I'm glad that this is where my colleague, Dodig and colleague Culey came in, and I'm sure they won't support closing the archives. ... No, I said I was glad, so why can't I mention it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Can't I mention you? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why? I said I'm glad you're here and I hope you won't support closing the archives, so why are you nervous? Well, I'm just saying I'm glad you and my colleague Coley are here, and I'm glad you won't support what the Ministry of Culture proposes to close down the archives, so colleague Dodig
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87801	Dear comrade Grmoya, just a little bit. So, dear colleague Dodig, I've already asked my colleague, Grumo, not to call anyone and thus belittle them. So I am asking you, colleague Dodig, do not enter the word of your colleague Grumoji, but I have asked him and allow us to continue the work of the plenary session, and once again I ask you not to call your colleagues in any way, but to explain the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87802	It happened to me for the first time that when I told someone I was glad to see him, that he was attacking me. This is the first time in my life that's happened to me. So I'm just saying that I'm glad to see my colleague Dodig and that he won't support this bill and the man attacked me, I don't know what's going on here, I don't know what's going on here. You want to protect me? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I hope that the representatives of the ruling majority, who are obviously uncomfortable here, because it is clear that today they will vote to close the archives and therefore react in this way, means that they will have, that today they will act on their own conscience and will not vote to close the archives. And I will repeat it here as much as they find it uncomfortable and as much as it means they themselves are aware that today they will work for the employers of Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87803	Thank you. Are you looking for a co-worker vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87804	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87805	Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 54 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 22(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87806	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 50th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87807	Thank you. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87808	So here's the secretary, you don't accept the amendments, of course it would be best to withdraw this law, if you had accepted it wouldn't have helped much, because here the goal was to close the amendments, close the Archive Act. I also don't believe that my colleagues and comrades of the Homeland War will vote to close the archives. Here's an example, today we'll also have a vote on the peacemaker's day. Ivan Schreter, he was also persecuted during Yugoslavia by various birds of the Kosovos and the migratory birds. I don't believe it, either, and I'm glad that my colleague Culey is here, and I don't think he's going to vote on his conscience and not allow it because he voted last year, along with me on opening the archives. And I don't think he's going to vote to close the archives now. It won't be long, but I trust you won't let your colleagues close the archives for all the victims in communist time. And not to protect birds all sorts of things, like I said, the selves, the Kosovos and the ones that don't move, who are well domesticated, and even at the top of the government, which are now one of the key people who put together this government and we're aware of that, we're aware of that. So pull the secretaries, pull the secretaries of this law, call the creator of this law to a colleague, and tell him that this is insecure, this is insecure, I know that this colleague is watching, but it's insecure to close the archives a year after you accepted it exclusively from the local elections. Who do we have to protect? Who do we have here to protect? Let the archives remain open to our historians, all interested and let them see who were persecutors in our people's communist regime. All those who vote here today will vote for this law to close the archives, and last year you voted to open the archives. I don't think you're going to do that. Vote your conscience on a majority of your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87809	Thank you. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87810	I'm asking mandatory.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87811	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment number 55. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87812	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the 50th Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87813	Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87814	So it's the same thing where we suggest introducing a category of archives that behaves as a public archival service because this concept is wider than the state archives and archives of units of local regional self-government and is also more practical for use and the possibility of a complaint is explicitly written for the silence of the administration can happen to us that some request by the administration is not responding and the possibility of appeal is being introduced, so that those who wish to have access, this is their ability to achieve it. What is very important, here are colleagues now arriving because there will be a vote, so it is important that they understand that this is about closing the archives and that they will not support such a proposal from the government and the ministry, and what counterpart Bulj said, we will have here today and his proposal to delete the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter, I would like to know how the HDZ and ruling majority representatives will vote on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87815	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87816	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87817	We shall move to Amendment 56 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 30(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87818	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amendment results in state archives setting up units of local and regional, or regional self-government, which is not in line with the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87819	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87820	Therefore, the proposed definition leaves out specialized archives that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia and specialized archives that are the founder of units of local or regional self-government, so the text of this amendment proposes to be complemented, but clearly there is no hearing, as counterpart Bulj said, is not mentioned at all by the Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War and it does not bother the ruling majority to support such a proposal. It's something I can't possibly figure out and I can't figure out that the kickings are going to go over this, that they're going to vote to close the archives. And that's exactly why they're so nervous, why two colleagues have already left the assembly after the debate we had here because this is indefensible, this can't be defended, they don't have any arguments left, and all they have left is hope that this will go away as soon as possible, that they will press that green button, and they will execute the order of Vladimir Seks, Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Obrazen. My colleagues, I hope you won't vote to close the archives. I believe that you will vote on your own conscience, not on the orders of those who want to protect the persecutors, who want to protect service associates from the former communist regime. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87821	Thank you. Moving to Amendment 57. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in relation to Art. 30, ct. 2. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87822	The amendment is not accepted because the issues proposed by this amendment are already regulated. 30. Final proposal of the law on archive materials and archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87823	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87824	My dear secretary, you do not accept amendments. So, this poor episode of Croatian Parliamentism is coming to an end, but I expect that the archives will not be closed today, and I expect it because of today's proposal that motivated me to propose it on the Day of Peace of Dr Ivan Schreter, who was also persecuted in Yugoslavia, but has since the Yugoslav regime, but has remained consistent with peace, was a peacemaker, was called upon in the most difficult days of war and the beginning when the Serbs occupied, began to blow up buildings, houses in his area, he called them to peace, dignity, not to return these people, he called them to his brothers, that he could not without them. And because of this man whom today the Government does not want his name to be heard in my proposal in the day of peace because of this man, Dr. Ivan Schreter, peacemaker, Croatian Gandhi, withdraw this Law. Drag this law for colleagues in HDZ who are not easy to listen to. It's not easy for them to vote for this. How are they going to explain that? Here, I mentioned my colleague from nearby Trill, Mr. Šipić. How will he explain that he voted to close the archives? Don't do this for the sake of people, for the sake of the victims, and primarily don't protect the birds of the village, the persecutors of the Catch in the communist period, both in Croatia and outside Croatia in immigration. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87825	Thank you. Moving to Amendment No. 58. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in relation to Art. 31. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87826	The amendment is not accepted because it is in art. 31.St. 1. states only for example some of the archives, and others are added, which means that this includes both scientific and possible other archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87827	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87828	When listing examples of specialized archives, it is necessary to take note of the fact that the special law defines that the Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War is defined as a specialized scientific archive. And that's why this amendment of ours. So, you've been subdued by one big mistake that you didn't mention within the Law the memorial-documentation center of the Homeland War. However, you did not want to admit that you were wrong, and therefore you did not accept this amendment, and you also do not want to accept all that we have proposed, which is why we wanted to fix this bad law of yours. Your intentions can't change, your intentions are obvious. After a year and something after we opened archives, we made them available archive funds and researchers and historians and all Croatian citizens, go from HDZ to the Croatian State Archives, and you will see that the archives are open. You're bringing us this law today. So, you're going to use this crowd, you're going to use the world football championship, you're going to take advantage of the situation so no one cares what's going on in the Croatian Parliament, that shows this number of our colleagues here as many as there are in the assembly and you're going to push through a law that closes the archives. We wanted to conclude this story. We have constant stories about Ustashas and Partisans, stories about comforters more than a year ago we wrote you the Law even though we never talked about it, made you open the archives before the local elections, and now after a year and close them with this proposal. I hope all HDZ colleagues will not support this proposal and I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87829	Thank you. I welcome the gallery of members of the Croatian Student Political Forum from Mostar. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Give it up! Moving to Amendment No. 59. The Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists in relation to Art. 31. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87830	The amendment is not accepted since if the Republic of Croatia establishes a specialised archive, the proposing act on the establishment is the ministry responsible for cultural affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87831	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87832	So I've been trying to explain something to the secretary of state ever since, but it's not working. We have tried these amendments to better define terms and things, but there is no hearing from the ministry or from the secretary of state. So this amendment refers to the fact that the provision refers to the establishment of specialised archives that are not the founder of the Republic of Croatia. Why couldn't I set up a specialized archive that would deal with a certain period in the past or some particular case? Or I don't know, one of the colleagues who's interested and who's historians. And we are working through this amendment to define it, but you have no ear for it, you have accepted only one of the 60 amendments that we have made to the greatest extent from the Most Club, something and colleagues from other opposition clubs and one HDZ amendment to which you corrected that mistake that happened to you in two readings where you practically opened the file of only two people from the former system. Because you don't know the difference between the constituent and the divorceal allies and you fixed it today, but you haven't fixed three important things again. I remind you, co-workers were rare to be defined as co-workers. We explain in our amendments that there should be open files of all those who cooperated, with all the security services, and there were more, you define in law only one security service, which shows that you don't even know history. And besides, you don't list all the other bodies because it wasn't just security services in the former regime, it was other institutions, and besides, it seemed like colleges, and we're saying it all, and you're saying no. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87833	Thank you. We move to Amendment number 60 of the Representatives' Clubs of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 31 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87834	The amendment is not accepted as the consent procedure is settled under the General Administrative Procedure Act, which also provides time limits for the adoption of certain acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87835	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87836	Thank you very much. We ask that, i.e. We allow this proposal that if someone is not allowed to access the archives, that there is an administrative dispute, you do not allow it, and you do not accept it. Of course because your intention is absolutely to close the archive, the law on archives. It's an absolute intention for you that HDZ colleagues voted for last year, we must not forget that. Here we see representatives of the Croats from BiH, will they also support this law on closing the archives, and last year you voted to open an archive from that communist period. My colleague, Rajug, do you want to vote? We'll see if it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87837	Buddy Bulj, buddy Bulj
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87838	Will you vote for the truth to know how many Croatians ended up in immigration, in Herzegovina, in Bosnia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87839	colleague Bulj, colleague Bulj.../Advocacy Bulj off./... Comrade Bull, your microphone's off. .../Speaker disabled./... Comrade Bull, you have the right to explain, but you have no right to call. .../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87840	This amendment and I will defend this law. It's my right to speak for two minutes about the amendment to my Rules of Procedure, to you, if it's of interest that you forbid me to have a watch and take me out. You have a choice and you decide. And you take away my word to defend the amendment you won't, because it's not your right to do business.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87841	You're out of time, pal Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87842	I ask that votes be voted on the amendment and I call on HDZ, MPs, if you vote on closing the archives, you are participants in the protection and persecution of Croats during the communist period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87843	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I give you a reminder based on Article 238. 239. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We are moving to Amendment 61 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 32 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87845	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the status of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, including its jurisdiction and activity, is governed by the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. That law establishes that centre as a public, scientific institution, i.e. a specialized archive and of interest for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87846	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87847	Thank you, Vice President. This is what we said during the discussion in the second reading, that the law itself did not mention the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, and we are trying to correct it with this amendment. The fact that the activity of the center itself is governed by a special law, of course does not prevent us from mentioning in this law that it is also a specialized archive. If this is the law on archive material in archives, then the law should mention all archives operating in the field of the Republic of Croatia, and especially this important archive that deals with archives from the Homeland War. And what I do not understand is that HDZ representatives will support such a proposal, which closes archives, which does not mention the Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War and which is only made with one intention, to protect persecutors, is the sole intention of this law. And what happens is that we have opened the archives by amending the law in May, and any one of you can go to the Croatian State Archives to look for any file, meaning any person or whole fund, for example. A fund concerning UDBA and UDBA files and you will see that this is publicly available and that you can use it. Under this law, it will be disabled, and 80,000 personal files will be closed for the protection of personal data, and only through the victim's file can we reach the stalker. We don't have a stalker record, we don't have a UDBA doing the stalker's file, we do the victim's file, and we can find out who the stalkers are, and that's what you don't want to understand or understand, and you don't want to do it on purpose. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87848	Thank you. We move to Amendment 62 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 37. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87849	The amendment is not accepted because the provision of that article includes all types of state archives which are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87850	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87851	It's incomprehensible that the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Center is not in this law, it's incomprehensible. Why would you want him erased by such a serious institution that he's not in this law? We didn't get an explanation even during the debate because you're only interested in closing the archive. That you showed interest as you close the archive to protect Croatian national interests while arrested, located, transferred, delivered the most prominent sons to The Hague without any standards, justice, justice, when you sent tons to The Hague untested from the Homeland War, and here is an institution that protects the Homeland War, which protects the truth about the Homeland War, which protects the truth about the Croatian soldier. If you had stepped in to protect the people of Croatian generals in The Hague in the case of HVO's recent verdict, you would not have been charged in time with neither Croatian nor Croatian generals and there would have been no tragedy in the case of General Praljak if you had washed your hands for years from these people while protecting the persecutors here, and you forget to install the Memorial documentation centre from the Homeland War into this law. Is that embarrassing? Well, that's more than embarrassing. And I really don't believe that you colleagues who accepted the Bridge's proposal to open archives last year will now be for closing archives and protecting persecutors of various Kosovos, Kosovos, settlement birds and domestic birds who have persecuted Croats on every corner of Croatia, BiH and around the world. And there are numerous victims both from my Mr. Marko Glee, Tihomil Raja both from all over Croatia. Please don't support this law. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87852	Thank you. We move to Amendment 63 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 41. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87853	The amendment is not accepted because the issue of management of the State Archives is equally resolved in Article 41(1). Final bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87854	Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87855	State Secretary, this is another nonsensical of this law itself because the Law on Institutions can only be established in the form of a public institution State Archives, another nonsensus. But aside from all those nonsensions you've done on purpose to hide the real thing that's going on that we've been warning you all morning and you're probably pretty embarrassed. But when they talk about you closing archives, here's proof, so your archive director said a few days ago when they ask him why you're reducing the period, the bridge opened your archives a year ago, and you're now cutting the period from December to May. Why are you doing this? And that's what a man answers, so every country keeps its secrets. So do you need anything more obvious than that sentence so that the archives are closed and they are closed. But what worries me is whether the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will know that you have betrayed everything you have preached for years, so the patriotic coalition of your famous was known for its lustration, you marched the streets and spoke lustration. We've been listening here for years about Ustashas and Partisans, now all of a sudden you don't want to talk about it, you're closing everything. Why are you closing the archives? I must ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87856	Thank you very much. We are moving to Amendment 64 of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge in conjunction with Article 53. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87857	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons that all rules adopted under this law should be adopted in the same period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87858	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of the Grmoys. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87859	So, fellow Secretary of State Poljičak, you want to tell us that the regulations take you more than three months, the regulations of the Ministry of Culture need you more than three months. We have clearly prescribed this three-month amendment to bring those regulations to you, but we have given you a period of one more difficult rule regarding digitization for a year because we are aware that this is a complex question. You don't want to hear any of it, here's the tide now, the ones that only show up when the vote is, came to do the task, to press the green button, to do the order of Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic, to close the archives. They don't want to hear the truth or the arguments or what we've been bringing out here all morning. Will you intervene, Vice President of the Parliament, calm down your colleagues from the HDZ who have come to execute the order?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87860	Continue your colleague, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87861	I can't go on because there's too much marble in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87862	You can, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87863	It wasn't you, colleagues from HDZ, that came to execute the warrant and vote to close the archives. I can see that my colleague Davor Ivo Stier is here, too, and I'm just wondering how he's going to vote right now. Whether to vote on his own conscience or to execute Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic's order. I'd like to know how you're going to vote on your HDZ colleagues, will you close the archives? I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87864	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Moving to Amendment No. 65. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87865	The amendment is not accepted because it is not a legal provision whose subject is to calculate deadlines for handing over public archive material in digital form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87866	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you if you have any debates, my colleague Škorić, I ask you if you have any debates at any level that you do not do this at the plenary session but allow colleagues to finish explaining the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87867	And here, all the time, trying to explain the difference between the materials produced in digital form and other materials. It is clear and we are just in the digital age that what has occurred in digital form that there is no difference between originals and copies and that to store materials in digital form requires much less space. We're trying to explain that difference to you, too, but no one here wants to hear the truth, nobody wants to know the truth here, and all they want to do here is just do the task, push the green button, and close the archives. All morning here are the representatives of MOST, most colleagues from the ruling majority were not present at all, probably because they found it difficult to listen to the truth, listen to arguments to which the Ministry of Culture and the Secretary of State had no answer, the minister was not worthy to appear here in the assembly before us MPs. And this shows that the only priority and intention is to close the archives as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to perform the task by order of Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic. We will not agree to such behavior and we will find ways to bypass this intention to close the archives. And again, I am interested and this is the only question in this whole story that will be voted by those HDZ deputies who have announced that they will vote on their own conscience in future cases. I'm curious about how he's going to vote in this case and whether he's going to vote to close the archives. And I also hope that my colleagues from the SDP won't be able to help HDZ this time. Don't help their colleagues close the archives, there's no reason to help them. Let it be seen that HDZ protects those who were co-workers of the service. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87868	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87869	The amendment is not accepted as Article 57 of this final draft of the law has been settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87870	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87871	We are looking for what you have also forgotten to be written in archive material and to surrender to archives which has not been done or will be done because the simple discretionary right of colleagues and the author of this law where it is not easy for you to listen to this and where, in general, we see the murmur of colleagues who voted to open the archives last year, you gentlemen will now vote to close the archives. It's a little funny, I can see that fellow Shipic is laughing, but the fact is that we are protecting by voting persecutors, persecutors of the communist regime. By voting, we protect the persecutors of the communist regime. From Mark Happy, Tihomila Raja, Dr. The shretcher you're named and now you're ashamed of. Because you'll see in my proposal that the government doesn't want his name to be mentioned in the Peacekeeper's Day, which was persecuted in Yugoslavia either. That you tried as hard as you are now trying to close the archives, that you were trying to protect Croatian generals when they were arrested, located, transferred and arrested, and when the engineer, i.e. If they were trying to protect them then surely the Homeland War Documentation Centre would be in this law where it is not. But by voting on this law today, you also vote against the Homeland War Documentary Centre, you don't give it any importance at all, but of course the legislator doesn't care, it wasn't easy for her to defend it. It wasn't easy when she didn't give money for General Pralj's book, which documented the Homeland War in time. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87872	I thank my colleague Bulj and once again, I ask that you do not call your representatives by name. So please behave properly in this High House. Moving to Amendment No. 67. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Polièka.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87873	The amendment is not accepted because the final bill regulates the handling of materials that occurred until 30 May 1990.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87874	Thank you. Dear colleague of the Grmoys.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87875	So as we have spoken from the very beginning, a period of 7 months that has been opened by this proposal of our law or by the amendments that we have all brought together in May this period is now closing. A period of transition from communist to democratic system. And the excuse is supposed to be important on May 30th. This is an excuse and it is actually the protection of those who have moved from one system, who played an important role in the former communist system and then moved to HDZ and took important positions. It is the sole intention of this law and it has proved after the Secretary of State here refused almost all amendments, so one amendment has been accepted insignificantly, that the intention to close the archives. You HDZ colleagues have come here to perform the task, you have come to perform the warrant and that is what is absolutely unacceptable to us and even though you have supported this proposal for more than a year now, you decide to go to closing the archives. I was hoping at least you'd fix this bill of yours a little bit and you'd accept one part of the amendment but none of it happened. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87876	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. This is what we've exhausted all the amendments. I thank the promoters, Mr Petrov, Mr Grmoja, Mr Bulje and Mr. Sladoljev for the reasons of the amendments. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Secretary of State Ivica Poljica and Assistant Minister Marica Mikec for the reasons of the government's views on the amendments. They'll vote on this when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break until 12 o'clock and 15 minutes when we're going to go after the vote. It's 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87877	Final proposal of the Law on Archive materials and archives, second reading, P.Z. No. 219. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists offers a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament on the final proposal of the Law on Archive Papers and Archives will be held on the third reading. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to make a statement on the proposed conclusion, with us is the esteemed Ivica Poljičak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87878	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is no good reason to accept this proposal because the new full law on archive materials and archives has been implemented long and extensive debate over a long period of time, all of which have been included, including all the parliamentary representatives, from everything and from today's presentation of a number of amendments, it is clear that everything that has been said has been practically shown and there is no reason to have a third reading, because we do not believe that we can come to any new knowledge. All attempts to point out that from this morning's presentations, the archives are truly false and I call on all parliamentary representatives to include the entire Croatian public, I hope, after this law is adopted today, to come into all relevant Croatian archives after its entry into force and that I can personally make sure that all archive material and including that archive material is available to my interested public by 30 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87879	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87880	So, this proposal and conclusion...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87881	No, no, you can't do that, you have no right to speak now in this situation. This isn't an amendment, then. [[I don't have a right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87882	Then I ask for half an hour's rest because all of the MoST's amendments were rejected except for one that was insignificant. It is about 67 amendments to the total MOST of independent lists and other political options here in the Croatian Parliament. None of this has been accepted, all the Secretary of State is false, the archives are open at this point. I call upon all MPs to go to the State Archives until the entry into force of this law and make sure that everything is available now. By proposing that the Ministry of Culture protect 80,000 files for the protection of personal data, the period from 30 May to 22 December is also completely closed and this is the period of transition from communist to democratic system. Similarly, this proposal did not define persons who cooperated with the security services but only introduced the term “co-operating” and we know that they were rarely listed as co-workers. They were simply either operational connections or co-operated with the services. This law lists one service and we all know there were many more, so this is a law that goes in the direction of closing the archives. That's quite clear. All the MPs who were here in the assembly during the morning were able to make sure that the secretary of state had no argument on the amendments made by the MOST club but brought by counterpart Hasanbegovic, so that in that sense it is clear what the intention is. The only question is whether you HDZ colleagues will execute the order given to the culture minister by Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic or by your own conscience. And now there's one thing the secretary of state, where we're going to bypass your law but this has nothing to do with your intentions, the intentions were to close the archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87883	I approve of the break. Professor Tudjman has yet to report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87884	I would also ask for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club because it simply needs to be repeated at the club that what is said today is that archives are being closed, that it's a simple binary decision, binary logic where the facts are falsified. Here it is done first, on the one hand all documents are open, on the other hand the problem archive is far greater because the archive as we have spoken on behalf of the club should become part of a major national project where everything that is being created today should become an archival structure that is available at the same time. And this is about protecting 80,000 victims of the communist regime who simply now, for certain reasons, want to be portrayed as something else. On the other hand, the tendency to set the border with the adoption of the Christmas constitution is delegated to the Croatian government, which was elected in the first multi-party elections, which is simply politically harmful and historically untrue, therefore with such one exclusion it simply needs to be put to rest and it simply is not acceptable, so I ask a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87885	I also approve of this break. Comrade Dodig, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87886	On behalf of the club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, I am also looking for a break to explain and explain what happened this morning and to give the Croatian public an insight into this problem because the morning prevailed on the opinion that everything was cut out in one completely different way where we questioned the moral integrity of people who might have voted differently and who think otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-20-0.u87887	We have a good break by 12.45 minutes, then we'll proceed. It's been 12.35 hours. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] Now we'll proceed with the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the Advocacy List Bridge Club, please vote, which the government does not accept, of course. I find that the proposal has not received the required number of votes and that we have not adopted the proposed conclusion. We move to a vote on amendments that the government and applicants have already been manifested, we have 67 of them, and we move on. I'd like to approach the vote now. Let's go to the first amendment of the Independent List Bridges Club, which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 2 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, which the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Third amendment to the Independent List Bridges Club, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Fourth amendment to the Independent List Bridges Club, which the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. He didn't get the votes he needed. Fifth amendment to the Independent List Bridges Club, which the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 6 of the Independent Lists Bridge's MPs' Clubs, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 7 of the Independent Lists Bridge Clubs has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 8 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 9 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment to the same club of MPs number 11, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of the Independent Lists Bridges' Clubs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 14 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 15 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 16 of the Independent Lists Bridges Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 19 of the Advocacy List Bridges Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 21 of the Independent Lists Bridges' Clubs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 of the same club MPs did not receive the required number of votes, no, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23 of the Independent Lists Bridges Association Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 24 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25 of the Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 26 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 27 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 29 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 31 of the Independent Lists Bridges' Representatives' Clubs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 32 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 33 of the HDZ Representatives Clubs has been adopted and becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 34 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 35 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 36 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 37 Advocacy Clubs of Independent List Bridges, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 39 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 40 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 41 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 42 Representatives' Clubs Independent for Croatia, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 43 of the Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 44 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 45 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 46 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 47 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 48 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 49 of the Advocacy Bridge Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 50 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 51 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 52 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 53 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 54 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 55 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 56 Advocacy Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 57 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 58 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 59 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 60 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 61 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 62 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 63 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 64 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 65 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 66 Representatives' Clubs of Independent Lists Bridges which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. And last amendment to the 67-Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists, which the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the law on archive materials and archives. I would like to vote that with 72 votes in favour, 15 abstentions and 20 votes against the Law on Archive Papers and Archives.
