ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66846	Thank you. I would like to request a break for 10 minutes, please, on strategic investment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66847	Comrade Pooh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66848	On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm looking for a break on the subject of hate speech and alternative facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66849	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66850	Thank you very much on behalf of the MOST club. I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The theme is passenger concession, passenger ports in Zadar Gaženica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66851	He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66852	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10-minute break to discuss the announcement of pension reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66853	Okay. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66854	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66855	I'm a colleague of Ljubic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66856	I demand a break to discuss the 23rd anniversary of the Washington Peace Agreement, which has determined the fate of the Croats in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66857	That's it. Six breaks. Resume at 9.50. It's 9:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is the esteemed colleague Željko Glasnović Advocacy Club Independent for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66859	Dear colleagues, fellow Members. We have two pregnant women, I can't tell pregnant women, I have to tell pregnant women I'll have to say it soon, they're improving the demographic image here somewhere. There is little to say about the strategy on Croatian strategic, this word strategy, strategic investment, strategic framework, but where are the strategic investments? You have a difference in war, for example in peace, you have a strategic level, operational and tactical. It has already been proven that 30 years after Croatia has gone to its internationally recognised borders, after the Storm for almost 30 years, we have no system and this system is not working yet, therefore we do not have a legal framework for the arrival of money here. That has to change very quickly, if it doesn't happen in the next five, ten years, we might have that Venezuela script waiting for us, where someone kills you for a pork butt when you go to the store. As possible with these powerful ministry advisers as many court advisers as there are bureaucrats, the bureaucrats brigade that we haven't yet learned the foundations of managing a state system. If we don't have priority A and B always go before C and D, who's going to come to the country where 5% of the land is arranged, that's what I'm talking about before, and we're talking about the OPGs. Who will come to a country where there is no legal certainty at all when it comes to the investment cycle, I also mentioned what is an average of 10 years, if the laws change almost every year? If we don't have anti-corruption laws, fines of simple laws, simple laws that are enforceable on the ground, last week Mr Lovrinovic spoke of speeding up this and this is a key matter of speeding up the legal procedure. We come here every week looking at laws that aren't yet the laws of reports from '14, '15, '16. year, so is there one order for us to take care of what's priority and move on? Is that intentional sabotage, or is that ignorance? I think there's a combination of ignorance. Example one, the Private Property Act, that's what's been delayed for another 10 years, which means we're still deep in that former system because we haven't solved fundamental rights. Here is the Croatian diaspora, so is it possible that 30 years after the war we don't have another real law on Croatian diaspora? Croatia's diaspora in the 1970s, money outside, covered the country's failing trade deficit. What is it today? Today every year, the deficit in Croatia is 16 billion and something kuna, it comes out for pensions and wages, it comes from the same basket. And these 16 billion kunas each year are compensated by a Croatian diaspora numbering nearly 3 million people, and these people are not desirable. Did it take 30 years to end that law that needed a Croat until the third generation, that he should not know the language? These processes need to be accelerated. I don't know what we're waiting for here. If some heads don't know how to work let them hire private companies and there must be synergy between ministries and centralized planning, this is how we spend time and resources and people leaving. In the end, I'd say something, not about this subject, but about a teacher's statement, Mrs. President. Varga, I think, from Osijek, who recently said from Osijek up there that they would come here like Satan and rap and cut some people down and throw them in the pit. But she was actually embodied by one side that has been here for a long time on a political scene that is totally against the constitution that should have long since been banned from action in our political space. But I won't say the name of that party, it has its heads here, in fact, in each of them squatting little Stalin, and they should have, long ago, had to be banned from acting in that space, and they're still here with us. Also, the fifth column of NGOs receiving money from the Croatian state, millions of dollars, kunas ironing Croatia's state outside and asking for money in the private sector and from... and from the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66860	Thank you. Second debated colleague Maria Puh on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66861	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's this party today would be used for an unprecedented amount of hate speech, which unfortunately we can see in our public space on our social networks, on our portals, in front of various articles. Last week, we had the opportunity to see how many insults, how many threats, how much hatred was showered on Minister Blaženka Divjak, Ivo Radic and many others who supported the Istanbul Convention. Unfortunately, what's the big problem is that this hate speech is justified by alternative or actually fictional facts. I would now be very, very brief and only cite three false facts and give their true justification. The first false fact used in a public debate is that the Istanbul Convention introduces gender ideology, that's false news. The concept of gender was introduced in the Croatian legislation in 2008 and finally the Constitutional Court itself stated in 2013 that in the Republic of Croatia they were sex and birth, that in the Republic of Croatia they were protected by the Constitution. The second false fact used is that the Istanbul Convention will take part in the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and, among other things, that justification is found in a professional body called Grevio, which is listed in the Istanbul Convention. That's not true either. So far, many conventions have already been signed that function in a similar way. One of them is the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which we have long been applying, and in the same way Croatia must send reports to the United Nations on the implementation and protection of children. We have entered the European Union, we have entered NATO, so the fact that the Istanbul Convention is taking away part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is definitely not standing. The third fact that is very often withdrawn, even more pointless, is that children at school will determine whether they are girls or boys. Absolutely an alternative fact. I would pull the parallel and ask if you remember when we entered the European Union, all those threats, concerns and fears that we will no longer have cheese and cream, that there will be no more necklaces. Here we have entered the EU, we are still in the EU with cheese and cream and still our citizens can make necklaces. I call everyone to account, I call on MPs, I call on the media, and I call on the citizens themselves to be responsible. Together, we must fight against hate speech, against lies, and against the alternative facts that ensnar us. The misunderstanding, unfortunately, stems in part from ignorance, and unfortunately the other part also purposely serves certain stakeholders with false and different interpretations. It all pulls together how important education is to us, how important it is to us to reform education and how much we actually have to work on education itself, both children and all adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66862	Let's move on, now it's time for the club of representatives of the independent lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66863	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to warn you of what is happening with the passenger port of Gaženica in Zadar. Construction began in 2009 in the term of then-Secret Minister Bozidar Kalmeta, opened during Minister Hajdas Doncic. A total of about 200m euros or about one and a half billion kuna secured by foreign bank loans were spent. It is now given to a concession on a 20-year Turkish company for just over 32 million kuna or 1.6 million a year. So a billion-and-a-half worth for just 32 million kuna, which is going to be 1.6 million kuna a year. Isn't that suspicious? The gauzenica is for those who do not know built in an excellent location. It's 1600 meters off the coast, right next to the city of Zadar. This port is an exceptional strategic resource of the Republic of Croatia. The MOST has been warning by young people in Zadar since the start of concession bids for Gazenica that a greater involvement of the ministry and government is needed. In fact, the Zadar Port Authority does not have enough human capacity to hold a successful concession tender because it is a passenger transport that includes cruisers. Unfortunately, this proved true because only one offer had arrived. We do not know the exact references of this company International Port Operation Zadar, because it is reportedly based solely on this competition, and it is owned by the same Turkish company Global Port's Holding, which has broken the contract because of the ministry's irregularities, the pre-contract for concession of the Greek passenger port in Dubrovnik. We're wondering what are the conditions she's offering? We don't know. In fact, local council members and activists are being denied the insight into the tender procedure to see on the basis of which such a financially harmful decision is being made for the Republic of Croatia. We strongly oppose this harmful concession received by the Turkish company through the decision of the Port Authority Management Board for 20 years. What does it offer and how much do they get and what does Croatia lose? For use of the entire port, infrastructure, catering, for exclusive use, the entire built passenger infrastructure is worth a billion and a half kuna. They offer 20 years per year per million and 600 kuna, concession + variable share of the earnings of 2%. That part can be largely omitted. So in 20 years as long as the concession takes, the Republic of Croatia would get just over 32 million kuna. Only the annual loan return is 7 million kuna or 5 times more than a year's profits. The Republic of Croatia loses at the port of Gaženica, at the company that reported to the competition, wins at a minimum of 20 years. This is the value of the infrastructure for neither the 50 parts of the value invested. Where's the bill and the benefit of our country? It is also offered to employ 28 people, as far as we can hear from the shrubs, available data. MOST and partners offer the establishment of an economic laser through which the Port Authority of Zadar would receive all the necessary help to carry out all these tasks independently, on its own... for secondary activities and for their own time employs more people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Decisions at the expense of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, Zadar, were made in a narrow circle of people, as the decision was made by seven members of the Port Authority Management Board led by Mayor Longin. The council includes Boris Fundlin from the Ministry of the Sea, along with Ivica Gašparic, Zivko Kolega, Marin Slavic, Krešimir Astru, Andrija Saric, Nikica Miletic. I note here that there are people in the county who are directly subordinated to the mayor as head of the county and we wonder what their independence is in making decisions? On 12 March, they reviewed and assessed the offer and declared it valid, and all this without public awareness because our local council members refused to give the conditions of competition and offers contrary to the importance of this strategic port of Zadar and of international conventions that prescribe public inclusion in decision-making of strategic importance for the community. Maritime well-being, ports, concessions, that's where Croatian people are being robbed and why young people go away, and that's when it comes to some conventions, under the radar we're going through these criminal acts. I will personally refer to the Transport Committee, the thematic session since I am a member, and make it public to let everyone in and discuss this. I expect you MPs to attend, I will also invite the county council members and have this harmful contract and concession for the Republic of Croatia discussed in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66864	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66865	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. These days, we are hearing announcements about pension reform as the existing system lies ahead of collapse. In Croatia, we currently have 1.14 employees compared to 1 pensioner and in certain counties, for example. in Slavonian, the number of pensioners is already more than the number of employees. The result is the unsettling problem in the economy that has resulted in demographic disaster, primarily through the emigration of young people. There is a big problem for new pensioners born in 1962 and younger who should receive pensions from I. and II. the rate which will be lower than 500 to 1000 according to the notices compared to those who receive pensions only in the I pillar. The government did not know how to solve the problem of most pensioners so far who have far too little pensions, more like social assistance while on the other hand sharing tens of thousands of preferential pensions and unnecessary early pensions, etc. surpluses in once-successful companies. So today, we only have 19% of the pensioners who did full-time work. In a mirror of its own incompetence, HDZ's majority again reaches the worst possible measure, namely for EU instructions and proposes additional costs for employees and pensions for pensioners. An increase in the separation in II is required. The post as well as the payment of the allowance for future pensioners. This payment of the allowance would, of course, come from the budget. De facto, that's how the government introduces IV. and the V. pension column and the question is, how many more pillars are needed to make the pension system sustainable? The whole column talk is turning out to be a bust. It's necessary under emergency II. Turn the pension column into a voluntary and to all those who wish to switch to column I, make it possible without any special conditions. Of course, along with the funds they've saved so far. II. The pension column is a complete failure because, besides increasing the public debt by 1/3, and thus the taxes and interest that we pay, the pensioners now end up having even more miserable pensions than before. The state paid 92 billion kunas and 1.6% of the current GDP, and Minister Pavić has no other solution but to tell them more. The question is, how long and how long? Are we going to spend 1/3 of our salary on pensions in the future or are we going to be out of 1/2? How much longer is it necessary to close the holes in the pension system? As far as pension societies are concerned, it is clear to the citizens that the stories of the succession of payments in II are. A false pillar because money can only be inherited if the insurance company dies 65 years ago. Otherwise, you can't inherit, and in addition to saving money, pension companies take 10 to 30% of the fees. Croatian citizens must know that you are their money so-called. fund managers pay about 150 000 euros annually without any responsibility for the success of the companies they manage. Among other things, they buy shares that very often fail as was the case with Dalekvod, Agrokor, Petrokemia and others. The government also proposes to extend its working time to 67 years and to lift bonuses for extended work experience and to lift the benefits of an unfettered working internship that the Living Wall most resolutely opposes. Before any extension of the employment, the issue of unemployment needs to be addressed. Croatians today live for an average of 75 years, which means that the announced pension reform would enjoy their pensions only 8 years on average, of course. So, following this, we call on all Croatian citizens to oppose the announced pension reform because it is obvious that there is an additional discrimination on the already difficult situation of the pensioners and we could even say that the government is implementing euthanasia in its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66866	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras, is not here and loses his right to speak and afterwards the club of HDZ Representatives, dear colleague Bozo Ljubic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66867	On Sunday, 18 March, we marked the 23rd anniversary of the signing of a Washington peace agreement, an event that has historical importance for both Croatia and BiH, especially for the fate of Croats in BiH. The agreement stopped the war between Croats and Bosniaks in BiH, the Croatian-Bosnian Federation was created. On behalf of the Croats in BiH, the agreement was signed by President Tudjman and before Bosniaks the chairman of the BiH presidency, Ali Izetbegovic. With the Federation's position which is... in 10 cantons, on behalf of Bosniaks, he signed Haris Silajdzic and on behalf of the Croats, the president of the Croatian Presidential Council of the Republic of Herceg-Bosnia Kresimir Zubac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Federation was established in the territories under the control of the BISH Army and the HVO, i.e. two interim administrative arrangements of the Republic of BiH and the Croatian Republic of Herceg-Bosnia. In Washington, it is concluded that after the end of the war, the entire BiH will be cantonized. The Croats from the BIH were not happy that they had to give up the Croatian Republic of Herceg Bosnia in the newly created Federation, an entity that enabled them to defend most of the areas inhabiting and through which social and economic rights were exercised throughout the years of the war. The more they entered the community with many more Bosniaks who fought a bloody war for a year, justifiably fearing majorisation and domination. In return, sponsors of Washington, the United States, promised Croatia support for the integration of temporarily occupied territories, the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And Croatia guaranteed Croatians the establishment of confederal relations between Croatia and the Federation of Equality. What came after that? The Dayton Peace Agreement was established in two entities, Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, and the Confederation of the Republic of Croatia and the Federation was rejected. In 2002, the amendments to the Constitution of the election law entities by representatives of the international community, under the motto of the consistency of all three peoples in the entire territory of the BIH, the instruments for the protection of the collective rights of Croats in the Federation were eliminated, and nothing was obtained in the second entity. The consequence is that Croats today are no longer able to elect even legitimate representatives to the institutions provided for by the Constitution of the state entities for the representation of the people. On the basis of my 2014 appeal, the Constitutional Court of the BIH ruled that the electoral law is necessary to amend each nation to allow legitimate political representation of peoples in institutions such as the Houses of People, Entity and State and the Bureau of the BIH. At this moment, the Bosniak Party is very openly obstructing the implementation of the letter and spirit of the Constitutional Court Decision, which threatens destabilisation and the BIH with possible consequences and in the wider region. Why? The answer is very prosaic. By retaining domination, selective, disproportionate redistribution of financial and natural resources is carried out. I'll give you only one example, and I could give you dozens. Based on discriminatory coefficients of distribution of VAT revenue and customs from a single account according to municipalities and counties, Sarajevo County has been "accessible" over 1.2 billion conversion marks over an 8-year period, and all of Croatia's majority counties have lost. How? So Sarajevo County has been allocated a coefficient of 2, and Croatia's Herceg Bosnia, based in Livno Coefficient 1.1. That's why he wants to retain his domination. The position of Croats in Republika Srpska's entity is even worse because there are Croats ahead of a complete disappearance and the number has dropped below 5% of pre-war numbers. But it has nothing to do with Washington, so it's another time. Why am I saying this today? There is still a month and a half left to amend the election law because there are elections in October. Because the Constitution guarantees constitutionality among other things, the Electoral Law, as the most important act after the Constitution. Because Croatia signed both the Washington and Dayton Peace Accords on our behalf. Because Croatia is a member of the Peace Implementation Council in BIH, the Supreme Sovereign BiH. Because Croatian spaces in BIH are empty of Croats and the highest of Herceg-Bosnian counties covering 25% of the territory of the Federation of BIH and guarding the back of most of the south-west of Croatia. It has been more than a year since I sent a proposal from the Croatian Committee on Croatians outside Croatia to put a point on the position of Croats in BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina as the most important neighbour of Croatia. So far, nothing. We've been discussing for months whether you need a break to collect bananas at 9.30 or 14.00. For a year on the symbols of World War II, we are discussing world-wide issues as if we could change each other's world-view, and we are running out of people in the neighbouring country, and from this country, people of all kinds are leaving, and it is symptomatic that there is always an obstacle to foreign investment. It's the only thing the people can leave in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u66868	Thank you. We're moving on to our agenda now. - Proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2018, the Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The adoption of the Plan shall be subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the 2nd reading of the Law, based on Article 2. 214. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would now ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. With us is Foreign and European Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76716	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament. As is said, you have before you a Plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for 2018. In accordance with the current dynamics of the EU legislative process with acquis, the Republic of Croatia has, as before this year, developed the Programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take over and implement the EU acquis for 2018, which is an integral part of your debate and subject to the adoption of the Economic Coordination Plan. This Plan presents comprehensive information to parliamentarians on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans during 2018, resulting from membership in the EU, our obligations, further takeover of the EU acquis into national legislation and all obligations arising from the RS response in breach of EU law. Taking into account the fact that the EU acquis is constantly developing and changing, Croatia is now changing its legislation in parallel with other Member States as a member of the EU. But also as an equal partner at the table with others, Croatia actively participates in preparing and making EU legislation through its representatives. It is important to highlight the key role of the Croatian Parliament in this process that the national parliaments received with the so-called The 2009 Lisbon Treaty. It is a role that is reflected through its right to conduct, directly, together with the national parliaments of the Member States, the procedure of verification, respect, the principles of subsidiarity in EU legislative acts proposals. In addition to this direct participation of the Croatian Parliament, its impact on the development of EU-level legislation is also achieved through indirect supervision of the work and action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in EU institutions, primarily by considering the position of the Republic of Croatia on EU documents, in order to achieve and protect the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the role of the Croatian Parliament is reflected in the adoption of national laws, which take over and ensure the implementation of the new acquis adopted by the EU. Therefore, the Government also adopted the Government of the Republic of Croatia's programme for this year and adopted for 2018 a one-year programme document that represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the acquisition of legal property. An integral part of the programme for the Governments of the Republic of Croatia for the takeover and implementation of the acquis is the legislative harmonisation plan for 2018. The plan contains 59 laws, which take over the new acquis of the EU, where Croatia is changing its legislation by actively monitoring the development of legal property by the competent authorities of the state administration. And this year, this legislative plan, it's oriented to neighborhoods. Thus, in the first quarter, it plans to go to Assembly 35, in the second 14, in the third 7 and fourth 3 legislative proposals that are in line with the acquis. I note that, in addition to the new acquis for 2018, it also contains all obligations for 2018 arising from the Republic of Croatia's response to infringements of EU law. In particular, I stress the importance of taking over the EU acquis in a timely manner, because in the event that there is no legal gain in national law within certain deadlines, against the Republic of Croatia before the EU court, a moveable procedure for breach of EU law, and the final outcome of the proceedings before the court, can lead to the establishment of a fine for breach of EU law. The plan therefore also represents an effective instrument for planning and monitoring the takeover of the EU acquis, and also has a preventive effect on the procedure which the European Commission can launch against Croatia for breach of EU law. The legislative harmonisation plan, Croatia with the acquis, in the current year, is one of the documents that contributes to effective functioning in EU membership conditions, as well as promoting national interests through participation in the creation of common EU policies. It is important to point out that by continuing to take over national legislation with the acquis, ensuring timely and correct application of the legislation adopted, aimed at improving the legal framework, whether it is fundamental freedoms, transport security, public health protection or other areas. For example, by applying the Law on the Accessibility of Network and Mobile Apps, these Member States will allow a new, more accessible way of accessing websites and mobile applications, to all users, and especially to disabled persons. An extended definition of drugs, e.g. In the Law on the control of drug abuse, trade in substances that are life-threatening and health-threatening will be prevented, thus ensuring the protection of public health and society as a whole. And the introduction of unique tickets for all public transport lines, which include trains, buses, trams, ships, will facilitate the organisation of travel for Croatian citizens. In this regard, taking into account the key and irreplaceable role of the Croatian Parliament, in the debate and adoption of legislative proposals, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament, the adoption of this plan, the harmonisation of Croatia's legislation with the acquis of the EU, for the current 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76717	Thank you and the minister. There's no replicas, so then we move on to club debates, do any of the board want to take a shot, do any of the board representatives want to come forward? If we don't, then we're going to the clubs, and it's our first turn at HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76718	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Prior to the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis, it provides for the adoption of 59 legislative measures for 2018, i.e. new laws or amendments and additions to existing laws. Most of these legal measures, 49 out of 59, are proposed by the government to bring them to the Croatian Parliament's summer party. This is how 7 laws are foreseen for 3 quarters of 2018 and for the last 4 quarters only 3 laws. In this regard, we believe that it is very possible to expect that, at the end of the dynamics of the adoption of new laws or legislative changes, it will be somewhat different from the plan that the Government of the Republic of Croatia today presents to the Croatian Parliament, and more so, in the first half of the year, the legislative acts that were provided for in the last year's plan, such as that. The law on foreign affairs. However, we believe that while it is likely to transfer some legal proposals from one quarter to the other, the most important thing is that the process of harmonisation with the acquis is ultimately in the various time frames, i.e. to avoid the European Commission's proceedings against the Republic of Croatia, before the Court of Justice of the EU. In this respect, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs has a co-ordination role, and I would like to highlight here the dedicated work of the employees of the sector for European law in the IHR. However, of course, successful work in the process... depends on the effective functioning of all government resolutions that must prepare legislative acts in time as well as of course discussions and decision-making in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, I would like to highlight the support of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives, and I believe that the same opinion is shared by other clubs in the Croatian Parliament. Support to the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Deputy Prime Ministers and all employees of foreign and European affairs, and conclude that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposed alignment plan with the acquis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76719	Thank you. We have two replicas. First is the esteemed colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76720	Dear colleagues, Mr. Stier like this. It seems to me that all these processes are going too slowly for us. That's what I said this morning. I think it's more than five before twelve. The harmonisation of these EU rules if it goes on indefinitely we will never create a system at a certain time. We don't have a legal mechanism to apply them on the ground. Everything sounds good at strategic level, and there is no tactical level of implementation. We have a dysfunctional judiciary, we have the legal legacy of the SFRY. We have to deal with it, we have to wrestling, we have to fight the mostly gray economy, corruption at all levels. I don't know if we wait, for example, for example, we selectively apply these EU laws. An example of lex perkovic. Some judges decided to hand over those ex-cons. Some of them were against it. Now private property. Outside private property is a saint, sacred as a right to vote. We don't have that. Look at the Croats when you have Croats outside, when we say the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what rights the Croats have in the Parliament are entitled to minorities in the Serbian Parliament. Is there one there? In the Hungarian Parliament you have Croats only he has no right to vote, and we are unique in this matter. It's done selectively. I'm afraid too slow. That red tape that lasts so long that we solve key problems. If it comes too late, I'm afraid for this country that we'll experience what I said... And Venezuela. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's talking about it. We have to work fast, speed up those processes. That's what Mr. Lovrinović said. If we don't do it quickly, if we don't have a legal framework for investment, if we don't solve corruption, then it looks like we're going to experience a scenario like those failed former experiments. It's going too slow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76721	Before my colleague Stier's reply, I would just like to welcome the students and students and their teachers from the Vugrovec elementary school from Kasina. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament! Comrade Stier, here you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76722	Mr. President, this is why it is important to give support here and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs that has this coordinating role so that it is not too late to pass all the necessary laws that we are taking over the EU acquis, because you are right when you say it is not just about us announcing that we are going to do something, but actually to do it in time. Otherwise, of course, a mechanism that also has the European Commission can also sue the Republic of Croatia before the EU court is in motion. But it's not only that, it's much more important. Our citizens will not feel the benefits of these laws unless they are passed and, of course, they are consistently implemented. As far as these other topics are concerned, you have opened a series, but I fully agree with the questions of respect for private ownership as one of the fundamental principles on which we can really build a modern Republic of Croatia. We recently had a question called the so-called question. The former tenants' rights, today's protected tenants, the way they've been debated here by me went in a completely wrong direction. Clearly, as a social state, we must meet those who are weakest, but first we should know which ones are the weakest in order not to use taxpayers' money to give it to those who really don't need it. And the way it was debated really didn't respect that principle of private ownership to the right extent, so I remembered... when he dedicated his book to all the socialists in all the parties. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, sometimes that could be said here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76723	Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76724	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Representative Stier, when we are discussing the EU's acquis, it might be good to once put on the very subject of the EU's gains. Because it's, it's not a homogeneous group of states, it's a heterogeneous group. We see that we have more and more pronounced today, so to speak so-called attitudes. A multicity group that is a kind of resistance movement to say so to an EU that has a different, means attitudes and I can say gains. So it would be good to really discuss one way that these are gains, where the Croatian people are there, where our tradition, culture, to what extent we fit into it, etc. I signed up for this replica, because you said very briefly here that the agenda item means harmonising with the EU acquis, and you said that the HDZ club gives unreserved support to it. So I would ask you, in this context, whether you are supporting you and the HDZ club both unanimously and ratifying the European Convention which also has to do with gains, legal gains to our system of values as you say. So, if I had a little bit of that right now, not that it's confusing, but I'd like you to clear it up for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76725	Replication response, Comrade Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76726	Yes, thank you very much for that question. To clarify about the Istanbul Convention, it is not in this plan that we received today from the government of the Republic of Croatia for the simple reason that it is a Council of Europe document, so not the EU, therefore, is not a legal part of the EU's gains. The Council of Europe and the EU, even though they have a similar name, are two different organisations, e.g. in the Council of Europe, the Russian Federation has not even signed the Istanbul Convention. Of course, the EU is another group of countries. 28 of them when the UK goes away then 27. As regards legal gains in principle, as you know, legislative acts which are mainly adopted on the Commission's proposal, and then, with the Member States' decision through the Council and the European Parliament representing citizens, may be or regulations that apply directly or may be directives that require each national parliament to regulate it through its own laws, following these guidelines, but taking into account special opportunities in each country, so we do so with this plan for the Republic of Croatia. As for this other one, I'll tell you now my opinion. I think Central Europe includes, of course, Austria, including, of course, if you want Bavaria as part of Germany, it also includes the Visegrad Group. Every time we closed ourselves to Central Europe, unfortunately, we ended up not in some Benelux but in the political Balkans. I think we should have our views, our attachment to Western democracy, but very good relations with those members in the EU as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76727	Thank you. Let's move on with the debate. It is up to SDP advocates' club, respected counterpart Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76728	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Marija Pejcinović Buric with a co-worker. And right away at the beginning I say that the SDP Representatives Club will also support this plan and we are extremely happy and pleased that this plan has always been supported by the pro-European sides in the Croatian Parliament and I think it should remain that way. It brings one-year coordination measures, or the dynamics of alignment with European acqis, which is very important for all of us here together. The reference he would refer to is that this plan is being submitted today, but today is actually the end of the first quarter and if we want a plan for the whole year then we should submit it at the beginning of the quarter so that we have for all four quarters a review of the things we will adopt in the Croatian Parliament. What is extremely important is also the issue of controlling the implementation of this plan. We know he's always been to every government session and I think we should keep it. The government must simply monitor how this plan is implemented every week because it has its own reform potential, a reform character, because that is where Croatia is harmonising with the legal gain that it ultimately defines through its participation in various formats of the Council of Ministers, and ultimately through our representatives in the European Parliament. What's legal gain, it should be known to everyone. One who is unknown can find it in the EU database, so all legal documents that make up the acquis can be found there, and I believe the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs can do so. So there shouldn't be any misunderstanding. In political terms, it is a common denominator for all political families and groups operating in Europe, whether it is about Democrats, Social Democrats, Liberals, Greens and all others elected by European citizens. Therefore, in a valuable sense, I think the same can be debated, but we will not come up with any problematic things on which the acquis itself is founded. In addition, when we talk about reforms, yes, this document has a reformal one character. On the other hand, it is unfortunate that it is the only reform document we receive in the Croatian Parliament. We are aware that a few days ago, the European Commission made it clear within the framework of the European Semester that structural reforms are not being implemented in Croatia, which is no wonder, when we are unable to ratify or ratify one convention, but we are bringing it past its meaning, content and purpose in the context of internal struggles for predominance or fighting between different political parties completely separate from the meaning and content of such a convention. So we are not simply able to concentrate on the content to improve the quality of life for the people of this country in any segment, including in the segment of the protection of women from violence, but we are going to turn every thing here into an internal battle for predominance, be within the interparty battle for supremacy in the state, forgetting those for which we are here in the Parliament, and these are Croatian citizens, forgetting their problems and forgetting that we are here to improve their lives in all segments. And that's what's defeated in our Parliament, we argue, we argue here we put pressure on each other, emotions about completely irrelevant issues for citizens, while simply because of ignorance or other things, things are going through that we're here for, and that's dealing with the problem of citizens themselves and raising the quality of their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76729	We have one replica, dear colleague Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76730	Kola Klisovic, regardless of who belongs to which political option, since Croatia's entry into the EU, so when we become a member, Croatia is the only EU member that has harmonised legislation with EU legislation and has practically had to implement it immediately. While those tens before us had one different process. But let's take these 5.5 years, how many laws have we changed to change one economic and economic picture in the Republic of Croatia? How many laws have we changed to allow their entrepreneurs to be even in the race with their colleagues? And these results, which show high export growth, are exclusively due to people finding their own way, have opened their own borders and started to place their own products. So, I'm glad you finally said that some things don't have political color. They have something that's for the benefit of our citizens, and now it's just a question of whether it's some reform law, which we all know in the depth of our soul, that it brings something good to Croatia and to Croatian citizens in the long term, and right now it might be a good political joke against those who are in power, is that right now, should we put this politics aside and put together that law into place and bring that reform? I think it is a fundamental question for this Parliament and for all of us who work here, because simply anyone who takes any reform procedure, one who at that time is not responsible for Croatia is attacking him, and that is what is not good. We should simply recognize what is long-term good for Croatia and support it all together because we will all be better and better at living in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76731	Answer, colleague Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76732	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shucker, the answer to your question is yes. Politics should be thrown out when it comes to key reform issues in this country that affect the improvement and quality of life of citizens. But it's not just politics between the parties fighting for power in the country, it's politics, unfortunately, and within the parties. And it's not one that we understand each other, it's most of us. It is a modus operand of the Croatian political scene. The one that drags us down into the mud instead of getting us up. I will personally fight it and try every time not to try, but to do so. Every time you vote in this House according to your conscience, if I understand the matter that is subject to the law. None of us can say that there is an expert in every legal matter and that he understands quite well, but what I understand is certainly not going to vote past my conscience, I call on others as well. Nor will I put an inter-party or inter-party struggle for power and predominance or for political influence over the content of the law that makes us here. As for our participation in the definition of legal gain, that when we entered the Union, it was already a pretty big body of rules and we had to accept it, the whole negotiations were actually harmonising with the acquis. It is not a question of whether we will get or not to get something from the EU, it is a question of the process in fact, adapting to the acquis. Now that we've come in, now we're just like the others defining such things and that's what's good and that's why I see actually, our work in Brussels as the only reform work. Why? Because no Croatian government has had enough political power to make real reforms, because we've always been involved in these political things that you're talking about, whether HDZ is in power or SDP is equal and that needs to be changed. But we are responsible for such a thing, we must show by example that it can work differently and function on a political scene. And every day when you open the portals or you take the front page of the newspaper you see that we've fallen back on that task.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76733	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis for the EU for 2018. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the draft plan for the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the EU for 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 108 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the adoption of the RS legislation with the EU acquis for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76736	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs. The Defence Act was adopted in 2013, and these proposed amendments and additions cover 33 articles. The draft law in this House was adopted on 26 January 2018. The final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the bill further regulates the definition of concepts, suggesting that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia use the name Croatian Army. Since the Earth's anti-aircraft defence system, apart from air monitoring and guidance, has already been allocated to the Croatian Land Army, it is proposed that the name "grane" instead of "Croatian Air Force and Anti-air Defence" be "Croatian War Aviation". An important Law on Defence prescribed that armed forces should be used to assist civil authorities and populations in the event of disasters, major accidents and accidents, search and rescue, transport of disabled or sick. The proposed provision stipulates that the transport of disabled or ill by the Croatian military includes an emergency medical flight. The mobilization of the armed forces is carried out in a state of war and in a state of immediate threat. This law suggests that the mobilisation of the Croatian military can also be carried out in the event of disasters and major accidents. The proposed law allows the establishment of high schools for the implementation of educational and scientific activities for defence purposes. You know that at the Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tuđman performs study programs that are within our universities, study programs, military management and management and military engineering. They are performed within the framework of the University of Zagreb and military maritime activities within the University of Split. It will start in the academic year 2018/2019. Just as the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education has given the framework for the establishment, so the proposed law provides a framework for the future status of Croatian military school as works of the university community. In addition to the above, the objective of amending and supplementing the law is to extend the legal basis for the more operational and efficient operation of the defence portfolio, so that one of the key roles in the home security system can be fully taken over. Therefore, in support of the above-mentioned normative act, we propose to supplement the provisions of the Defence Act, given that the provisions of the 2013 Law are not detailed in respect of reserve obligations and rights. A clearer definition of all categories of military taxpayers, handbooks, sorted and unclassified reserves is also proposed, as well as a more precise determination of their rights and obligations. These changes will allow for the extension of the personal base to complete the professional and reserved composition of the Armed Forces and thus allow for greater operational performance in the performance of the tasks. The reserve composition of the Armed Forces is divided into a contractual and mobilization reserve, and the mobilization reserve on a non-classified and sorted reserve. During the service in the armed forces, the legal status of the reserve in a working relationship is governed by the Labour Act. Guards invited to the Armed Forces are entitled to cash compensation and travel expenses during the service in the Armed Forces. In 2017 we made a decision on a fee of 150 kuna per day for each reserver. Voluntary military training has been conducted since 2008 at a time when military service is not in force. Since 1 January 2017, we have increased the fee to handbooks for voluntary military training from €1160 to €2000 per month and has certainly contributed to the first time since 2008 in one year we also had a third deadline for voluntary military training. Under the proposed law on voluntary military training, military bonds can be sent to the last day of the calendar year in which they are 30 years old. This proposal differs from the provisions of the law so far under which military training can be directed to a military official who turns 29 years of age. Voluntary military training acquires the necessary skills to serve in the reserve and fulfils one of the reception conditions in the active military service. In accordance with the National Security Strategy, this law proposes the possibility of launching a training programme for members of the reserve composition of a younger generation through which a security culture will develop. The proposed law regulates decision-making in the section relating to the use and use of the Armed Forces. It is proposed to regulate that the Armed Forces can cross borders to provide humanitarian aid at fire protection tasks based on a decision taken once a year by the Government. Based on experience in the current application of the Defence Act, it is necessary to prescribe the proposed regulation of this problem. It is also proposed that the decision to cross the border of the Republic of Croatia for the protocol of ceremonial activities of water-level units and lower by the defence minister. That area has not been regulated so far, and the Proposer proposes to regulate it in this way. Based on experience from practices in support of civilian institutions in the task of protection and rescue, it is proposed that this law empower the Chief of Staff that, with a view to increasing operational capacity, it may order the temporary deployment of part of the Armed Forces unit to stand by. Finally, the financial resources for the implementation of this law are provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the division of the Ministry of Defence. We suggest that the law be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76737	Thank you, Secretary of State. One is a replica of a respected colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76738	Dear colleagues. You're soldiers, you were the gunman there with the last 7th Guard brigade so I wouldn't tell you some things you know. I'm interested in three things and I'd just like you to transfer this to other levels there, operational strategically. First of all, I mentioned these fighting tribes this morning, one thing I'm curious about, which I know from my former experience. The former armies had problems with the fullness of fighting tribes and everyone wanted to go there, wanted to be technicians there dental technicians, security systems, etc. The chefs, and in the end it's settled this way that in some armies they have applied one law when you sign a contract that for the first three years you have to spend in combat generations, we know what artillery is, infantry, armor. The second question, I asked that before, who makes tactical manuals that founded our... lesson and experience? I don't know if it's done all the way. Who writes these tactical manuals from water level to brigade? If we don't know today what a firearm is at the water level, that means we didn't do the job. That's what I'd say, and learned lessons. You have some armies they've established for example. Americans have died on a tactical level, Americans only have schools to standardize tactical procedures and that's also important. These are the three basic things that I wanted to mention, those active reserves you were actually talking about the reserve, but first I'd talk about these combat breeds, the new contract, the second one was tactical manuals and the third one was what I said last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76739	The reply to the replica of Secretary of State Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76740	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, here I am going to say, Mr. General. Now, I can answer you positively on all three questions. As far as genders are concerned, we have a division of combat tribes, tribes of combat support, and this is otherwise resolved by the Law on Officials in the Armed Forces of Article 41 in a way that the Chief of Staff proposes to the Minister how this is addressed. In that decision there are also services and support services and all the elements necessary for the quality of the tasks to be carried out. As far as the lessons learned in the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces system are concerned, there is a system in which the lessons learned are defined. You know well that after every action, surgery, they have to work... and certain analyses to make us better, so make sure it's arranged. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And they are betrayed among other things and taught lessons. And as for the manual, we have an orderly system of publishing, and in the design of the manuals themselves, the professional bodies of the armed forces and the Ministry of Defense work. And thank you very much for asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76741	Thank you. Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? If not, I'm opening the debate, and it's the first turn of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76742	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. As already said in the debate in the first reading, these amendments and additions to the Defence Act are closely related to the Law by the Homeland Security System. Because by establishing a system of homeland security, the role of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is gaining greater importance. The Homeland Security System was created to meet the security challenges of today's Republic of Croatia successfully. After the Homeland War, the biggest crisis was the migrant crisis. At the annual level, we are faced with a number of elemental disasters. Today we're fighting floods, last summer with fires. In this context, it is necessary to address the shortcomings and, as soon as possible, to establish a stable defence system, ready to respond to any challenge. These amendments and additions to the Defence Act contain a series of solutions which should allow for this. Moreover, the Proposer accepted a series of remarks made in the first reading debate and thus improved the final draft law, indicating the need for a common approach to solving security problems, through mutual cooperation and respect. In order to achieve satisfactory risk resistance and... National security needs to extend training and education of the active and reserve composition of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and to define the obligations and rights of the reserver in more detail and detail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These amendments and additions to the Defence Act will enable the launch of new training programmes for trainees of reserve composition, younger generations through which security culture will develop, and will strengthen awareness that participation in defence is the right and obligation of every citizen. It will also extend the personal base to complete both the professional and reserve composition of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and thus enable operational performance in the performance of the tasks. These amendments and additions regulate the possibility of establishing a higher university, for the implementation of promotion, education and scientific activities for defence purposes. Furthermore, it is prescribed that armed forces can cross the border of the Republic of Croatia, in order to provide humanitarian aid based on a decision taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the prior consent of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which constitutes a development of the provisions of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Seven. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Also, one of the more interesting newspapers is the establishment of the authority of the head of the head of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, so that, in order to increase operationality and conduct, it can order the temporary deployment of part of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to stand by. However, one of the most interesting changes may be the one relating to art. 3rd point 3 allowing the Croatian Army to use the name Croatian Army for the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. From here, I congratulate all members of the Croatian Armed Forces, the Croatian Armed Forces, on involvement, defending against the floods, where they truly help our fellow citizens who are unhappy with these floods. And finally, the HDZ Club proposes that we pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76743	Thank you, we don't have a single replica, so we're going to the discussion of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the esteemed Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76744	Thank you, President, here's a very short, just a few things you'd like to point out on behalf of the HNS Club. As far as this law is concerned, therefore, the category of reserve assembly of non-classified and classified reserves, of course, we know and we saw that training and education of the active and reserve state of the armed forces, we are aware of that. And we've seen the unfavorable events, which have elements and have been declared elemental disasters, that the military has played a great role and that we think that this system and civil protection, and thus the reserve handbooks, could certainly help our country's security. What's most important and perhaps I can't say more controversially, just that part, which is regulated by the service in the reserve, I'd like to point out here, that it's already secured from earlier, in Art. 21. The law, therefore, which spoke before the military obligation consisted of a recruiting obligation, military service obligations, or civil service and service in the reserve of the armed forces, is therefore something that has already been in accordance with the Constitution for many years. What this law prescribes, exactly when this happens, shows the need for when it is not in force, the obligation to serve the military term, that, clearly for and certain, the material rights of those people who are actually young from 55 when it comes to men between 18 and 55 and between 18 and 50 when in the case of voluntary women, when they are being spoken of, that, as we have heard here from the promoters, their material rights and their other rights are not thus questioned. So when we talk about both finance and pay, and so I just want to point out here, that this is absolutely not supposed to be, and not at all, some, let's say the prerequisite for the introduction of mandatory civil service. Of course, the HNS Club and the HNS have done this a long time ago and have been to end mandatory service. So, only most of it is regulated by the rights of what is already in place here, so we think that in the end, for those cases when we had in 2013 how much you remember where there were a lot of resistance for people who work, who have trades that have certain and family status, I think it's pretty well regulated who can, who can't and who can't postpone it, and I think that part is carefully arranged to really respect all the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76745	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76746	Your Honor, your Honor, your honors. In short, just a few objections now to this defense law that we have beside us. The bridge club of independent lists will support this law because we believe at this point what it brings definitely improves the situation within the Ministry of Defence of Rights and Obligations that will result from all the duties that soldiers and officers should perform within our defence system itself. So, the National Security Strategy was a fundamental document that was important to bring forward in order to preserve the integrity of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens in the coming decade. Despite referring to a relatively long period of time, it was something that defined threats, goals, ways and means to remove them and was definitely in the new light to be brought when we know that the last one was made in 2002. After this strategy was defined, we were able and we saw how a system of national security should be organised, which was also seriously damaged and many of the situations that occurred since the Kornati tragedy, the icy rain in Gorski Kotar, the catastrophic floods that are now taking place and the refugee crises that took place in the body 2016. These phenomena indicated that the crisis management system has serious gaps and that they need to be redefined. After that, the need to bring about changes to the Law on Defence followed, and we particularly welcome what is finally a defined concept of how we intend to organise a reservation in the Croatian Army. Thus, the winning end of the Homeland War and the calming of the situation in wars and aggression covered by the former Yugoslavia necessarily led to a significant reduction of military effects in the region itself. The rapid reduction of the Armed Forces and their transition to a peace-making facility has not been accompanied by adequate care to maintain or slow down the disappearance of enormous experience and ability. Croatia is today a stable democratic state, a full member of the EU and NATO, there is no direct threat to its sovereignty. But entering the collective security system freed huge potentials and resources needed to hold a large standing army. In all this, however, the fact that we must be able to defend our territory and rely solely on NATO is a great illusion. The reserve structure, which was eventually pushed to the margin of interest partly due to the economic situation, and partly due to lack of vision and political will, is one of the essential factors in the country's national security. Its significance is not only military but sociological, psychological, historical. And she had just booked on her back the first stage of aggression on Croatia and in the fall of '91. It should be recalled that the mobilization of 285,000 soldiers and the creation of 77 brigades, and the mobilization at the very beginning, and all of the people who trained as reserves in the former state were then established a strategic shift and halted aggression. The Keeper was the foundation of this army of ours. So the task the reserve should have in the next period is not just military. Of course, the basic task of the reserve is to support the tasks of the Armed Forces in the country and in foreign missions, but also to help civilian institutions in various situations, especially natural disasters. It is too expensive to raise such a few active Croatian armies in such tasks. Therefore, investment in the reserve in the future should not be taken as a cost but as an investment in the security of the country, and the funds that would be spent on it and not so great when comparing the gain that means having one ready reserve, reserve battle in the area of each county and for all the tasks and challenges ahead of us. What's even the most common layku in the eye is that nowhere in crisis situations there isn't a force that normally appears in almost all orderly states is the first on stage, so the armed forces reserve until the moment we finally define it. The Guard of the Armed Forces was completely abandoned immediately after the Homeland War ended, although the war could not be won by victory that its participants were not trained as I said as reserves in the former state. Both the ordinary soldiers and the command line from the lowest to the highest level in the next ten years and the youngest of the generation that brought forth the Homeland War will become too old for any form of crisis organization. In parallel, generations of young races are completely uninformed and untrained, disorganized and left to themselves and in the event of any threat to the country or any part of it. So the vast intellectual, physical potential that can be exploited in crisis situations so far has remained on the sidelines. Paradoxically, this potential wants to be used, as the self-organization of defenders proved before the catastrophic floods. So our support for all these changes we have in this final reading, we as a club will support this law and we think it will make a good contribution to better organisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76747	Thank you. We don't have any replicas, so before we move to an individual debate, I would like to welcome the second group of students and pupils of the Vugrovec elementary school from Kasina, welcome to the Croatian Parliament. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Stevo Culey. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76748	Dear President, dear colleagues. I will generally talk about the Croatian army and what came out of it and where we are now. The end of the Homeland War ended the need for a large majority of Croatian soldiers as well as their officers and officers. All these people found themselves once unallocated and unnecessary in a new time, in a new future and today we are witnessing that their acquired knowledge and experience is far from unnecessary. New times also bring new tasks, new times bring new problems. But once you've gained experience in the hardest of times, you can't possibly forget. Here, too, a colleague of Strenja was talking about the catastrophic floods that hit us, and today we are witnessing that they are happening. I'd just like to bring you closer to the flood situation in Gunya. The moment the rash broke at Gunja, when all the forces mobilized and went to the rescue of the embankment and to help all the places that were threatened was found and the Croatian defender emerged from the Homeland War to give his pain. At the same time, through social networks, through Facebook and other Croatian defenders organised themselves, where they also found the place of gathering. I will start from the Vinkovci case outside the hotel Slavonia in Vinkovci where at one point over 100 Croatian defenders gathered, which Croatian soldiers, which Croatian specialists where they entered the buses, filled them with holes and went towards the County road of Šitaro. It was on the bus that they self-organized. They found among themselves, recognized their commander who by the time he arrived in Stitar or in Županje had already determined who was the leader of the group, how many people he had under his command. So on the paper he pulled out of his pocket, he's already written a coma whose function and duty he's acting on. On his arrival in Stitar, the same commander received 9km of defence from Stitar towards the County and towards Babina Greda. So, he, by his knowledge, came to know the Homeland War immediately, within what would be said, joined the organization of the defense. In what way? In such a way that he divided the rash 9 km into 9 stations, that for each station he determined which would be the commander of the group, which would be the people in which the group and they would go every mile, so that at the same time at any time the commander who had sent them to the task in S.H.I.E.L.D. in the tent could know what was going on at a certain km, 9 km, of the route, the threatened route. Only a Croatian soldier from the Homeland War and a commander from the Homeland War who made his trade in the war. There's not a single office that can organize that. So no service but only one dedicated to his assignment. But the end of the Homeland War ceases at all the need for such people, for their knowledge, for their skills, their abilities, and they each go to their own homes with what they acquired in the Homeland War. Some are disappointed about such a procedure, drugs, alcohol, cubes, everything. Some are deeply injured and sick. Their knowledge is underrated and untapped, and this is just one example that is evident that their need and thus their knowledge was needed. The one who inherited such a Croatian army, which did not continue and there were many ministers who did not continue to build the Croatian army on the basis of what was acquired from the Homeland War, was offended by the Croatian Army that we are also all witnesses here who are sitting, at least those who come from such environments where young people go to the Croatian army, who are happy to go to the Croatian military and police, which is at least as it says in rural parts of Croatia the only form of existence that they would say is a haven for the same. And we have been witnesses in the past that many Croatian soldiers have left, so they wait for their service to meet the deadlines of 4 years already as long as they signed the contract and went to Germany. We get a trained soldier who spends four years in the system, acquires his knowledge and titles again and because of what was happening in terms of wages, means of life, payment of field conditions, payment of guards, separation from the family, the same soldier decided to leave the Croatian army and seek happiness across the border because of the injustice that had been committed. With General Krstičević, Minister of the Croatian Army, the Minister of Defence we get a professional experienced man who based his rhetoric and progress of the Croatian Army only on man, because man is the foundation of everything. The technique isn't worth anything unless we have a quality man to fill it in and do what needs to be done at a given time. The Croatian soldier, if he has to go on guard or on the ground, and think about whether his wife and child are taken care of at home, he will not think about the guards or his work, he will only think about his home and how to come home to protect his family. When he is certain that his family is at home safe and well cared for, not that his wife must go to the wages or not give God to Austria, Italy, Germany to guard the elderly while his parents guard his children, and he is on guard or on the ground that is not adequately paid. That's what soldiers are all about. And the point is that we are from a traveling army that has migrated daily on buses all over Croatia, that at least some of us have approached their houses and their cities to be a role model, pride, security and stability to our citizens, from a military station in Vukovar, military in Sinj, and as we hear it will be in Varazdin. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76749	One replica. Dear colleague Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76750	Dear Mr. Culey. You've brought a lot of things out, some things can't be talked about in the Homeland War yet, but it's time for that, too. You have military secrets, you have national security. Example one: You spoke well, we had no military legal system in place. Nor did the military vaults function, all military problems flowed into civil courts, and I would say that some in war were at the level of treason-breathing. And how can today, as some people today, who handed over their weapons to that territorial defense, TOO being ministers, perhaps, might have handed over their weapons to the TOO, and were secretaries of the People's Defense. How is it possible, if we are talking about a new doctrine, that people from the old doctrine are still working in the Croatian Army, how is that possible? If this doctrine is defeated, aren't there no young people born after 72 who can carry out the work of a new doctrine? I prayed as God at the time of the war to form an honorary staff in the Croatian army. No one listened, now what have we got? We've got the cadavers. It's inevitable. And that the military must provide an initiative of organisations, initiatives and leadership to the lowest level. After 2,000 years, all the generals were removed, no one was interested in the lessons learned, I had because I was setting up a fighting centre in another country with six paths, the largest fighting center in this center of Europe, the conservatory center and the simulation centre, and the lessons learned were not interested, but those people were removed. The only thing they cared about was how to reduce the army. Today we feel the consequences of the destruction of the Croatian army and thank God that Minister Krsticevic came, he returned the honorary watch and these other things, pride to the Croatian army for trying to destroy and destroy our collective memory, the project has not yet been completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76751	Thank you. Replication response. Comrade Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76752	Dear President, Kolega Glasnović, not that you are right, I confirm everything you say, and I will especially refer to this Croatian Assembly often some, who have not contributed anything in the Homeland War or in any good towards the Croatian state, at least until now, may not, but they have often been able to tackle inappropriate attacks both you and me. They often used to say, you were repairing tanks in JNA. Who? Those who destroyed Djuru Djakovic and the special vehicles program of the non-intentional production of M84 tanks. Those who went to help this Djura Djakovic in a way that had been recapitalised by Djura Djakovic, in fact by Tesla's bank and some similar and suitable characters who pulled money from Djura Djakovic and did nothing good to Djura Djakovic, except themselves. I may have fixed the tanks, but I did something useful for Djuru Djukovic because I was their employee who was assigned... The military-technical institute in Belgrade and I know exactly what I'm talking about because I've been working on this programme, on a dedicated programme that we don't know what it's in and what it's going to be like, and the Croatian state and Croatian economy, this programme is very necessary, because the programme, at least in the former Yugoslavia, was good and as soon as the conditions for them to sell equipment with Kuwait, i.e. these same tanks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76753	Thank you. This ended the discussion individually. Now I'm supposed to finish on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, the esteemed colleague Pernar, but he's gone, so he loses his right. And then we're going to the final presentation of the motionary, Secretary of State Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76754	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In the end, I would like to thank you once again for the debate and I urge you to once again adopt the proposed law because it will certainly contribute to an even better and faster development of the Croatian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76755	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Defence Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 268. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Tudjman and the Advocacy Bridge Club. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is the Honorable Zdravko Jakop, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State. Amendment number one of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76757	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs of the amendment are not accepted. It is not possible to accept this because it cannot be regulated by this law. That problem shall be addressed by an updated provision in Article 81. The final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a way that proposes to prescribe that retired military personnel participate in the rituals with the support of the Ministry of Defence in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76758	Here you go, Agent Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76759	I think there's been a misunderstanding. You're talking about the Armed Forces Act, and the president was talking about the Defense Act. [[The incursion president: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76760	I'm talking about the Defense Act, and this issue that you've listed is governed by the Service Act, so it's foreseen and settled in the Service Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76761	Okay, then let me comment on this since this amendment you put it in place of the Defense Act in the Service Act. I will withdraw this amendment because it is resolved in the second law. However, it should be noted that in addition to preserving tradition, the importance of the reputation of the Croatian Army should also safeguard the institutional knowledge of what each institution is resting on, so it is far from disputed that the Ministry of Defence should safeguard this knowledge and tradition on which the entire defence system is based. I am sorry that the promoter has no longer committed his ambition to the ministry to take care of it. However, as settled in the second law in part, I am not fully withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76762	Thank you. So then we move on to the 2nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76763	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. It is not possible to accept this for a reason because it is proposed to cover the already proposed provision of Article 84a of the Law, which proposes that the case be regulated in accordance with the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. This suggests that this is already being implemented through the implementation of study programmes carried out in the framework of our universities at the Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76764	Thank you. Who's going to show up? Dear colleague of Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76765	I thank the chairman. I would like to say once again what the amendment is about, which is that we wanted to add that professional education and professional training is being prepared by the students of the higher schools referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, which you state is recognised as professional education and professional training outside the armed forces, and according to the regulations governing higher education and verification and nostration and recognition of military schools and diplomas, or to comply with civil standards. Why? At present, despite the fact that you have explained to me no military schooling diploma is recognised and no professional or scientific qualification can be obtained on the basis of it. Programs, subjects and lecturers at military universities have already been in line with civilian standards, but so far there has been no political will to bring it into line with the civilian system and in some way to recognise the completion of school within military education as a civil school as has been done to all those who have completed the Military Academy in the former JNA have been recognised diplomats from completed military schools. I demand that this amendment be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76766	Thank you. Then we will now vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're going to vote now...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76767	Mr. President. Before voting on the SDP Defence Act, please pause for ten minutes with an alternative to enable us to speak immediately It refers to the Law of Defence [[/Adversity President: About this law?]] A colleague, Funko Vidovic, will. [[/The President's incursion: here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76768	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. I must show dissatisfaction with the time when this final bill was held in the first place. Tuesday at the funeral of our late General Peter Stipetic when we are all interested in this topic and we are dealing with it, gave priority to sending our late general. For us in the SDP, and I believe the entire opposition is disputed Article 8 of the Amendment to the Defence Act, paragraph 9 and paragraph 10, amending Article 26 of the existing law. Paragraph 9 reads: “With voluntary military training, other training programmes and training activities can be carried out that develops a security culture and strengthens awareness that participation in the defence is the right and obligation of every citizen.” Article 10 is replaced by the following: ‘The programmes and training activities referred to in paragraph 9 of this Article and the rights and obligations of persons in that training shall be prescribed by the Minister of Defence’. It is a controversial notion of a security culture that is nowhere defined, neither in the National Security Strategy nor in this law. The additional seriousness gives an item 10, as stated with the rights and obligations prescribed by the Minister's regulation. We in the SDP want to trust a minister who has repeatedly repeated that he does not want to impose a military deadline on a small door. We want to believe that this problematic item of the 9th and 10th and the particular concept of security culture do not bring that danger to themselves. If the notion of a security culture means recognising the circumstances that should be avoided that at a given time we do not become victims of a situation, illegal action or more force, if, by that concept, the ministry implies in general that it is a culture of recognition and reflection on something that can endanger a person's health or life, home, family, destroy material values, if the minister sees security culture as part of a social culture that is very useful because it helps people to recognize, prevent, prevent or oppose phenomena and behaviors that can endanger them, then it's okay. It is the essence of a security culture, and as an interdisciplinary concept, it includes a very broad range of developed standards and standards of behaviour, or awareness of self-protective behavior that develops and upgrades through education, learning and work. We want to believe that the minister and his team really have such a vision of security culture. It would be a special kind of adventure, not to mention the difficult words, a hypothetical situation in which the minister, despite a clear and unequivocal decision by the Croatian Parliament, tries to unfreeze the military deadline without the consent of this House of Commons. It would be the most cruel form of deception and in this very dangerous fraud. It is a fraud which would be a fraud that would delegate a clear and unequivocal decision that is in force by representatives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in this House of Commons. I use all these words on purpose to paint how much fraud it would be. The will of one minister, contrary to the will of the Croatian people. Finally, we trust the minister when he claims he does not want to impose a military deadline on the small door, and therefore we will support amendments and additions to the Defence Act, but we are asking that changes be made as soon as possible to regulate the concept of security culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76769	Thank you. Before I go to the polls, I would like to welcome the students and students of the first Croatian high school in Rijeka and their professors. Welcome. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 170 for, 3 abstentions and 5 votes against, have passed a new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. We now move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading, P.Z. No. 266. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. I would like to ask again the Proposer, the Honorable Secretary of State, Zdravko Jakop, to address us and explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76771	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of MPs and counsellors. The service law in the OSR was adopted in 2013. In all, of the 252 articles of the Law, these proposed amendments and additions have 92 articles. The fundamental objective of the proposed Law is to raise standards and conditions of life and work of soldiers, officers and officers, officials and tenants. To enable OS members to develop better professional development and return dignity of a military call for greater interest in accessing the OS. In the fifth year of the application of the Services Act in the OSR, certain solutions have been shown to be amended, i.e. complemented and modified in a different way in order to better support the further development of HV. Therefore, the key amendments to the Law include the following: return of work payments instead of the exclusive payment of the duty which has proved both unfair and ineffective. It is also proposed to introduce special fees for guards, duty and work on the ground to active military personnel. It is therefore proposed to amend the current provisions under which persons in service do not belong to the right to increase the salary for guards, duty and labour on the ground so that an active military person is entitled to those charges. It is, therefore, the most common tasks carried out outside of regular working hours. That's what they're doing. Here's what they're doing today. As regards the security of the military call, these provisions, following the suspension of the military deadline and the introduction of voluntary military training in 2008, were first sent to the 3rd generation of voluntary handbooks in the same calendar year in 2017. It is therefore proposed that for soldiers the introduction of the first contract at a specified time, to be for two years, and the second contracts indefinitely for the duration of the service up to the 45th year of the soldier's life. This replaces the existing three contracts for a specified time, at 4, 5 and 6 years. The proposed solution achieves the security of employment and the possibility of planning with all the rights that work carries on indefinitely. This Law proposes introducing a late reception for top athletes, i.e. over the prescribed age. Such a solution is also proposed to include doctors of medicine due to their deficit in the military system. Now in the system we have 31 top athletes who are in contract reserve status for a certain time. The aim of the proposed amendment and addition of these provisions is to allow these persons to be admitted to the service indefinitely, without restrictions relating to age, so that those persons with their experience and knowledge can, so that those persons can be instructors in certain areas of the military system. That's the kind of model other countries have. For the candidates for medical medical officers, an officer's rank as lieutenant has been proposed. This particularly recognises the long-term training of doctors in medicine, and the solution to the armed forces of other countries is being traced. Also, according to the current law, soldiers can be transferred to another state body only during the last year of the third contract in the military service, excluding the possibility of moving from the OSCE to the Ministry of Defence. Since there is an interest and a need for soldiers to continue working in the status of officials, i.e. the proposed Law, to regulate this area so that the transfer to a state body or public service can be made at any time during the second contract. As for improving the system of professional development, a rotation of command and leadership duties and the duties of first officers is proposed every 4 years. Since the rotations of all duties under the current Law are not enforceable. The aim is also to facilitate the multi-annual planning and flow of the system, staff management and, at the same time, to give a clear view of the career of active military personnel. In particular, we point out that it is proposed that the highest time for reception should be 30 years with the aim of increasing the number of candidates. The DVO may, in the interest of the OS, be deployed to a position directly higher than a personal act for a maximum period of two years. It is also proposed that officers and officers of the profession and health services can be deployed to a construction site up to 2 acts more than a personal act, but also longer to 2 years. Exceptionally, a soldier, a military specialist, a DVO appointed to serve as a military envoy and to another military-diplomatic duty, and a DVO sent to international bodies can be deployed in a position of establishment up to 2 acts more than a personal act. As regards improving the need for housing, the concept of a traveling army is abandoned here, and the new arrangement will allow units to act in a timely manner in conditions of assistance to the population and to civilian institutions, to create preconditions for the growth of strength and to create perceptions of the local population on the presence of OS as a factor of security and protection and part of the home security system. The current situation of the traveling army and the 110 bus lines that our people daily transport to work in military and military polygons is not acceptable. We are working on solutions to settle this differently and thus improve the standard and quality of life of our soldiers, officers and officers and their families. We also propose changes towards which, for financial support for the residence of an active military person, a key schedule is out of place of residence. This corrects the current situation in which the compensation was possible after the transfer from one place of service to another, especially the youngest members who were unable to make any compensation on the first schedule. Systemically filled with personnel gravitating towards new locations, most members of a particular unit will be able to live and work in the city or nearby area where their unit is located. Since the applicable law stipulates that all active soldiers during the service of the Armed Forces located in military locations will be free of charge, we propose to prescribe the possibility for active soldiers to undefined and contracted active soldiers the possibility of a choice located in a military location or outside of a military location in order to achieve social, family, social and other needs as well as to preserve the motivation for a military call. For the second reading, this solution has been completed in a way that suggests that active soldiers can be granted accommodation outside military locations with the right to organised or contracted transport on a personal request. As for raising preparedness, the Ministry of Defence declared in 2017 a year of soldiers, officers and officers with a fundamental goal of raising standards and living conditions and working conditions for members of the Croatian Army. This year 2018, the year is ready. The active military person is obliged to maintain the required level of body preparedness, so for the first time in order to promote a healthy and better quality life and work, this area is normally regulated. In order for the Croatian soldier to successfully carry out his duties, it is necessary to have a healthy lifestyle and to be active, so we have invested financial resources in both new sports equipment and training devices. As regards the activities of termination of service and retirement of military personnel, this law proposes to regulate the time of termination of the active military service with the right to retirement, which sets as criteria the prescribed year of life depending on the personal act and on the condition that the years of retirement are fulfilled. The basic idea of the proposed provisions is to allow for a precise determination of the time of completion of the military career so that the military personnel are prepared in due time for transition and the military absence ensures the possibility, time and space for planning human potential management. Most of the OSs, especially in the NATO Member States, have a defined moment when the active military person's career ends. As for honorable acts and commanding brigades, anniversarys, important events of the Homeland War, we mark with special piety and pride by honoring all those who sacrificed their lives and health for Croatian freedom and statehood. We show dignity and respect for the Croatian freedoms. Therefore, the proposed law provides that the President, i.e. The President of the Republic of Croatia may assign an honorary rank of officers and generals of the OSCE to Croatian citizens and citizens of foreign states for the special merits acquired in the Homeland War. The honorable act gives the right to the markings and appropriate military honors without the right to command and conduct and has no financial effect. The proposed law corrects the injustices related to the status of staff brigades and the legal gap that was made in the Service Act in the OSR adopted in 2002. This is about then active military personnel of the personal rank of the headquarters brigade and not the reserve headquarters brigades and those who had an honorary rank. These thirty persons have the rank of a commanding brigade which is not formally existing and the problem needs to be addressed in the way proposed. This solution does not create any financial obligations. And finally, the financial resources for the implementation of this law are secured in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia in the division of the Ministry of Defence. And here you are, on behalf of the proposer, I call for this law to be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76772	I would like to thank Mr. Zdravko Jakop, the esteemed Secretary of State for his explanation. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76773	Mr. Vice President. Once again, I go through these laws quickly today, and they are clearly well done with all those remarks that they are. So before us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, all the proposed changes seem logical and necessary and we think it is very important to work on the perception of the Croatian Army, that it be positive and we think that in recent years, however, especially since the Minister of Defence, Krstičević, that perception goes really well. We see how busy it is to help the Croatian army where it is needed, because these catastrophic ones happen, because of climate change and fires, and now these floods, and also what his mission was, and what his vision was, is that it should improve the status of soldiers, officers and officers because it was something that has been neglected for years and has definitely led to the fact that this army did not look right outside, but many have left the system unsatisfactory in the way they could and progress, in which way they could meet all the needs that every soldier needs in every modern army. I would also say that it is very positive that it is definitely now regulated as it is necessary, each work adequately paid, the return of special fees for guards, duty, work on the ground to active military persons it was quietly removed. These people were doing it, but they weren't paid for it, and I'm glad we're finally going to define that. It is good to go with the change of the existing three military contracts to 4, 5, 6 years that are being replaced with two contracts, one in two years and the other in an indefinite manner, thus really making it worse for the safety of these young people who are here, these days we are aware that the tenders for entry into the Croatian Army, that they are in some way ensuring that they see their career and their lives there, which will be adequately paid, but also to ensure some security through those contracts that will now be otherwise agreed. Doctor's profession, I can always talk a lot about it, especially because doctors in the war were something that was just ours, in a way special, because the Croatian doctor, the doctor in the Croatian Army, was in the war with the army in the trench and where you actually have practically soldiers nurses in every army and only then medical technicians so I don't know where the doctors are. Ours were there and our doctors had in the war, we had a start-up act that could have been won sometime after '92, the third one made a decision that it was a major's starting act, the one that's been in the army since '91, the captain who's been since '92, but that all of these others could actually get the rank of lieutenant. This is definitely coming back now because we need to know that salaries in the Croatian Army are also received according to acts, regardless of the duty that behaves, the act is nevertheless the basis. It's a good thing we've worked it out. There is no doctor, there is no doctor because of this and in the Croatian Army, they are disabled. The inability of professional development specifically refers to doctors because it is a very different story when doctors are in some major health institutions, not closed within the military itself, so I think it is good that this law regulates that officers and health services can be deployed in a position of formation up to 2 acts more than a personal act and the deepest two years and that the starting act be an act of superior. I would also like to point out that I am sorry that all these years we have never remembered and realized that in the Croatian Army and in the war there were many members, there were many members, not very many, but there were members from foreign states and I think it is good that the law finally prescribes that this award can mean, honorary act of officers and generals of the Armed Forces that both citizens and citizens of foreign states can be given the special merits. I would just like to say that, with regard to Article 84, for the implementation of education and scientific activities for defence purposes, high schools can be established in accordance with the law governing scientific activity and higher education. It is therefore unclear whether the existing educational institutions of the Armed Forces are planning to comply with the civil education system and thus raise them to higher education levels, which would allow for the verification, nosetriification and recognition of military schools and diplomas, or to establish additional higher schools with the existing civil system, an unadjusted military education system. Therefore, none of the diplomas in the military education system are recognised, and no professional or scientific qualification can be obtained on the basis of them. Programs, subjects and lecturers at military schools are in line with civil standards, but so far there has been no political will to bring it all together with the civil system, which would be good and we welcome that we finally resolve the issue of actually high education within the Croatian Army itself and the Armed Forces. The club of the Independent Lists will support this law, if we have any further objections, the amendments will arrive during this debate and we think it is good to finally realise what we have said, and that is that we must have soldiers, officers and officers who have waited too long in this situation and the problems regarding the economic situation of the country and the crisis, finally welcome to think about them, propose changes and improve their status as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76774	I thank my dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić for this debate, we are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76775	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which we are discussing, bring significant improvements to the existing law, and their aim is to better support further development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. This goal aims to achieve through increasing standards of life, work and training of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, promoting military calls and values of the Homeland War, increasing safety and protection of the population, and in the context of changes in the security environment and responding to security challenges. The concept of a traveling army is abandoned, and access is made to a system full of personnel gravitating towards new locations which aims to achieve the state of most members of a particular unit living and working in the city or nearby area of its unit. This also creates preconditions for the growth of forces and the creation of perceptions of the local population on the presence of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as a factor in security and protection and to allow timely action of the conditions of assistance for the population and civilian institutions. For this very reason, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are returning to Vukovar, Sinj, Varazdin and Ploče, as a Varazdinac, I am truly pleased that the Pumas are returning home. The process of transition of rejuvenation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia was launched by a new command staff trained abroad with experience in the Homeland War. These amendments and additions bring positive changes to the material rights of active military personnel who will be manifested through the increase in wages through special forms of service work, field work, guard service, duty duty, the most frequent tasks carried out outside of regular working hours. Amendments and additions bring certain improvements related to the rights of active military personnel from pension insurance, in particular by enabling the exact time of completion of a professional military career to prepare for transition in a timely manner, and providing the military system with the possibility, time and space for planning, human potential management. These amendments and additions make it possible to create more efficient the purpose of individual institutes, primarily to think about changes in the duration of the contract at a specified time for which soldiers, sailors, join in the active military service. Changes related to age-related suitability for military service, issue of military training and access to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, recognition of voluntary military training, suspension of cadet service, introduction of late reception for top-level athletes, direct reception of cadets, improvement of officer status with the call of doctoral medical officer, the assignment of officer, lieutenant, frigates, suspension of the period of training of military specialists, the establishment of the status of Navy soldier after completion of military careers, the adjustment of the status of active military personnel selected in the teaching scientific or scientific teaching profession, and who participated in the follow-up of study programmes or scientific research projects at the Croatian Military School and completed the military service, the establishment of the time of the professional military career in order to provide other persons with legal and time for human management. The applicant accepted a number of proposals made in the first reading and thus improved the proposed amendments and additions. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I suggest we support the proposal to pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76776	I thank my fellow uncle for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Stevo Culey. He's not present. Does the promoter have a closing word maybe? Here you go, Secretary of State Zdravko Jakop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76777	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, I'd like to say a quick answer to that question about high school. So this Law on Defence enables the establishment of high schools for educational and scientific activities, and we already have verified certain programmes within the University of Zagreb, so we are working on it and I hope that we will quickly raise it to a higher level. In the end, I want to thank you all for the debate, and once again I am using the opportunity to invite you to adopt this law because it should enable us to work even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76778	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Jakop, for the final word. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I would like to thank Deputy Secretary of State Zdravko Jakop at the Ministry of Defence and his associates, Mr Zoran Pilic, Assistant Minister Peter Mihatov, also Assistant Minister and Peter Barac, Secretary-General of the Defence for the participation and explanations of this final bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Now respected colleagues and colleagues should go to the next point of the proposal to protect applicants of irregularities, first reading, P.Z. No. 260, but since the Committee of Justice has not discussed this point yet and the meeting is scheduled at 13.30 p.m., I hope we can discuss this point. I'm setting a recess until 3:00 p.m. when we resume our plenary session. Thank you very much. It's 11:00.44.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76779	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, second reading of P.Z. No. 266. Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Tudjman. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us again is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, the Honorable Zdravko Jakop. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76780	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The amendment is not accepted. It is not possible to accept this because it is proposed to regulate the assignment of honorary acts, as already proposed in Article 43 of the final proposal of this law. The proposed Article 89 addresses the issue of headquarters brigades who left the defence system and whose military service ended by 1 January 2004. That is, before transposing the brigade by force of the Law of Service on the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, which was passed in 2002. It is therefore about then active military personnel, the personal act of the headquarters brigade, and not the reserve headquarters brigades or those who had an honorary rank.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76781	Here's your esteemed colleague, Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76782	Thank you. The proposed amendment does not alter the proposal's intensities to correct injustices against headquarters brigades that have not been promoted to the rank of Brigadier General when acts have been brought into line with NATO standards. The ministry's defence minister, under this amendment, would have a full initiative to solve the problem, and persons who will fit the criteria will become generals by signing the president of the Republic of Croatia. Those who will not fit the criteria will not become one. Namely, here is the meaning of this amendment that we do not have a one-time adoption of this, a one-time application of this law, but that it fits into something that has its continuity, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76783	Then let's vote on this proposal that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We are now going to the second amendment, the re-representation of Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76784	The amendment is not accepted. It is not possible to accept this for the reasons set out in Amendment No 1. concerning Article 89(1) of the final proposal of this Act. That provision regulates the translation by force of the law in an act, not by prescribing the power to propose for the award of an honorary act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76785	The obvious, dear fellow Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76786	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we may have a problem with terminology because we actually use three terms of promotion, translation and assignment, and therefore in a legal sense it can be a difference. However, although the amendment remains earlier, the issue of the integrity of the institution and the generals and acts remains, which is within the authority of the Presidents of the Republic to sign it. It is not disputed here, and it is not included in the department or in the ministry, but it remains that someone will become an act, receive the rank of a general, so that someone in the personal administration will write a solution for him, and will not have that procedure that elevates the rank and the Croatian military and therefore proposes this amendment, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76787	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, and we are going to vote on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 105 for, 6 abstentions and 3 against, were passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76788	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We now have a new draft law: - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, First Reading, P.Z. No. 260. – Proposer: The Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA The Proposer of this Law is the Club of the Living Wall and the SNAGA on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate at this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedures concerning, as I said before, to the first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, and the Government delivered the opinion you have in your boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76789	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have on the agenda a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity or popularly called "The Whiskers' Law". In certain laws, the Republic of Croatia has this problem, meaning there are certain protection segments which are also carried out by various bodies, but there is not one centrally centralised unit that would monitor, implement, control, direct the applicant of irregularities or care for their rights and rights of members of their families, for that purpose we have put in the parliamentary procedure a whole new proposal for the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. Judging by the government's reactions that I'm going to look back on a little bit later, it wouldn't have been bad enough if we'd given some more changes to some of the laws that this law's about, but it doesn't matter at this point because it's about another reading. I would like to say first of all on behalf of the Living Wall that we believe that no serious fight against corruption can be fought without the protection of applicants of irregularities. We have here a handsome statistic that has been presented here in the Parliament in its own time, the statistics are from BiH, we are currently gathering information from around the world. So, to say that as many as 40% of cases are solved by a tip and all here are a few percent per regular checkup, police tip and other activities, what does that mean? It means that if we discovered and solved some few percent of the irregularities now, if we had tips from people on the inside, it would increase multiple times. The problem in Croatia is also that one atmosphere is created, a negative atmosphere that one who reports an irregularity, that it actually works against itself and that it works against society while reality should be totally opposite. And when a major irregularity occurs, a person reports it, when colleagues around that person see that instead of celebrating as a hero, being a role model to other citizens, being rewarded, no, there is a conflicting scenario, so mobing, bulging, moving, threatening to quit, even physical assaults, killings, and of course such a situation does not encourage others to report irregularities and to fight corruption, but it is exactly the opposite, stifling, suppressing, pushing fear into all those other people who see corruption, knowing about corruption, having documents about corruption, but it is afraid to apply out of fear for their own life. So, the primary intensity of this law's intention is to turn this story around, create an atmosphere, one way of thinking about Croatian society that corruption should be reported, that it is right and that it is on the right path that it is the one that reports corruption and that the state will give it all the rights and all the necessary protection because such a person should be an example to all others who will follow that path. This law I will say it here, the high rights to the applicants of corruption because they deserve such rights, for every kuna which the declareer prevents, that is, for every kuna we give and for the Attorney's Office and for those rights, multiple more will be prevented. So let's say we're giving 5 million kuna to the Attorney's Office to prevent maybe 50 million kunas of corruption damage over the course of one year. And certainly there will be much more, we know what the perception of corruption in Croatian society is if we look at EUROSTAT reports, if I remember well some 70% is perception among citizens, or so many citizens think that there is corruption in Croatia, and even much more among the judicial staff, so among people who live every day in the judiciary and should decide on justice at the end of the day in society through a system of rights, even 90%. These are truly devastating data, Croatia is still considered a corrupt country. So much for the perception of corruption, what I absolutely have to mention is, and once again, to point out is the nudity passed by by the applicants. The biggest cases of corruption in Croatia are corruption in INA, the famous case of Ms. Vesna Balenović or corruption in Croatia post office, then there were cases in HZ and others and if we watch today what happened to these people, they are mostly people who have had a lot of problems in their lives. I wish they could be here with us as advocates to expose their stories, we'll do it for them, here's a colleague of the Bunjac's going to present some of those fates, we just have to be as a society busy not to have that goal happening, not to pass the years, and even decades of ladies and gentlemen, that someone lives in suspense for himself and members of his family in constant stress, why, because someone out there stole something, alienated society, and we don't have the courage to sanction such a person. That's absolutely unacceptable. I would also like to emphasise that in the government's statement, the government actually admits I would say my mistake, that the fight against corruption is not going well and that it should, yes, the government clearly acknowledges that, it should pass its own law, it stands on page 2 of section 4 of the government's obvious, so it says that it determines the adoption of a law on the protection of people who report corruption. It will probably be a law on this road, probably much weaker, with much less rights, with much less status and I'm not sure how much of a government that rests on political corruption and the government is whether, we know the history of HDZ, Mr Sanader, a government that has unfortunately still fabricated corruption in its pores, can draft a Anti-Corruption Law. I simply don't believe such a proposal, but I call on both the government and you fellow MPs and all of us here as a society to determine that a much stronger approach to fighting corruption and that we all sit together and pass one law that will produce results, which we will all accept. It doesn't have to be absolutely all the rights that are listed here or arranged in exactly 100% of the way we have prescribed, but we find some consensus, let's help these people, not only those who suffer for so many years, with little or no rights left to the Croatian judiciary, but all those who, from now on, will find themselves in a situation where they see corruption and are afraid to apply. Our law also works a certain step away from the judiciary because it prescribes a person in a law called the Advocate General for the Reporter of Irregularity. The lawyer's work would be prescribed by special regulations as well as the prizes for the applicant of irregularities as set out in the legislative proposal. Generally speaking, I'll look back on a few more things. Despite the exceptional social importance of the notifiers, their influence on society's morality and inciting active and courageous opposition to irregularities, I repeat again, there is no law in the Republic of Croatia that would in a comprehensive and comprehensive way resolve the protection and rights of these extremely brave persons. The current protection of applicants has been implemented only partially through several laws. Law on labour, Law on civil servants, Law on Trade, Criminal Law and others. However, none of these laws deal with difficulties in a comprehensive way, nor does it involve a solution to a series of life - threatening challenges that applicants and members of their families are almost regularly going through. So we see, for example, in the government's proposal and their reactions, they intend to include, in the drafting of their law, the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Administration, the work, the Ministry of Labour, the Faculty of Law, the Alliance of Independent Unions and representatives of civil society associations. And where are the whistles? Will they, firsthand people know what the process is and what it is, whether they will be involved in this law-making process. Here, I call on the government's representative to make his own, and it's announced in three quarters this year, to include whistles. They would very much like to say what they need and it has to be woven into the law. Furthermore, if we compare ourselves with countries in the region, it is evident that a large number of countries are protecting applicants of irregularities by special laws. For example, the Law on the Protection of whistles has the BiH, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Kosovo even. One of the best examples of whistle protection can be seen in the Republic of Ireland, where our youth goes, in which the applicant protects protected dislosures act from 2014 and its changes in 2015. We consider passing a law like this to be a priority. Many countries have such a law. We also have a case here from New Zealand, which also deals with similar issues. The same is true of protected dislosures act, but since 2001. Irish is about 15 years later. According to the 2016 corruption perception index, the Republic of Croatia has declined by 2 points from the previous period to 176 countries, and is in 55 places with 49 points, which counts us among the corrupt EU countries, as I said. Only Hungary and Romania with 48 points are worse than the Republic of Croatia, Italy with 47 points, Greece with 44 points and Bulgaria with 41 points. A report on the perception and corruption index was produced by Transparency International Croatia. Unlike the Republic of Croatia, many countries have progressed in the environment. Thus, together with Albania, Kosovo has advanced by 3 points, Serbia by 2 points, and BiH, Montenegro and Slovenia by 1 point. At the same time, RS fell, colleagues and colleagues, by as many as 2 points, and even worse Macedonia with a 5-point drop. And not to add up all these points, corruption is going on on so-called. lower level, between ordinary citizens and low-ranking public and civil servants. But the most dangerous corruption, we all know, is this systematic corruption or systemic corruption and corruption between high-level government duties that destroys the most public goods, and it happens in a narrow circle of closed small groups, completely hidden from the Croatian public. The need for an official change of attitude towards reporting irregularities, and in particular to applicants, shall be reported. In the Republic of Croatia, as I have pointed out, it is increasingly rooting in the public's position to do evil, alienate other people's well-being and abuse its position are not grounds for responsibility, both for liability to the law and political responsibility. The ineffectiveness of our legal system encourages perception that the abuses that individuals have committed are perceived as resourcefulness, not immorality. So, Mr. Sanader, he wasn't immoral, corrupt, and at the highest level, he was just resourceful. It is a terrible message sent to us by the Croatian judiciary by non-processing in time and by this Law, or law similar to this, must forever end it. So, we need to change perception, change the climate, change our attitude towards corruption applicants. All the laws so far, and you will see this later on in a series of examples, difficult examples and life fates, were not able to control general corruption, let alone the most difficult cases. I further cite that the growing potential of hiding corruption is preventing any detection of illegal activities unless it is indicated by persons with sufficient knowledge and insight into the ways in which the corruption scheme is created and worked. Today, it's usually the person on the inside. How does the world become more complex in all its segments and more specialized in knowledge and occupations, in order for you to expose corruption in one particular segment, in a narrow segment, and we see that, for example, in Agrokora, which of us here knows and read and interpret fully and correctly, the report of Agrokor? A little someone. So we need to encourage people who don't have much, who have specialized knowledge to whistle and to interpret things as they are and to reward for it, not for silence. It should know how successful reporting results in the perpetrator’s punishment, and it encourages other people to report. The success of one alarmer attracts 20 others. If these persons, applicants, are not sufficiently secure and protected after their application, it is unrealistic to expect their exposure for the sake of the common good. It's very clear and logical and I've already explained it. If I report something happening, if I get hurt after that, it certainly won't encourage me to report an irregularity again. With this bill, we intend to protect the applicants of irregularities, and thus encourage a large number of honest, honorable people, witnesses to corruption in companies where they are employed to report irregularities. It has a direct impact on the profit and well-being of such companies and their employees and users, as well as on the general state of society. Returning trust in the rule of law and strengthening social morality. In the legislative proposal, we prescribe a whole series of measures that I will specify a little later, as well as the introduction of a completely new one, I would say 4, or 5 protection attorneys, the applicant of irregularities, as key persons of a very professional person, who will then, according to his court, determine in which direction the process should go. Thus, the way in which irregularities are reported in the work of business operators, the acquisition and duration of the status of applicant for irregularities in the work of business subjects, the status of applicant with disability, the status of a member of the family of the death-injurious applicant, the protection and rights of the applicant and members of his family, the rehabilitation of the applicant, the part-round and the manner of work of the applicant for the protection of the rights of the applicant of irregularities is prescribed. The work of business entities is defined, the consequences of non-compliance with this law, these are certain infringements. You should say it's in... The new law was also attended by a number of whistles, so a number of whistles, it is the result of their attitude that whistlers should have rights based on the rights of Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because today, when God's war is gone, we have to create a new defense, a new immunity system against corruption, no real fight against corruption, but help whistlers and whistles, instead of investing in a number of money and time ourselves, hours to explore corruption in some institution. If we had a whistler there, you'd say we're already halfway through business. He'll tell us right away where he is and point to important things and the whole process is actually going much faster. The whistles are modern, peaceful defenders, I would dare say, I ask the Croatian Parliament, that as soon as possible, it is seriously related to this problem. What is the view, unfortunately of the Parliament, according to the fight against corruption, we also know by the fact that for several years there has been no session of the Monitoring Council, implementation of strategies to combat and corruption, an extremely bad message. For the implementation of this law, €5 million per year is foreseen for the functioning of the Ombudsman's office, we estimate that multiple savings will be made, as I explained earlier from this money invested in prevention. As for the allocation of rights, it is impossible to assess how many people will report asking for their status to claim their rights, so it is impossible to predict the exact costs, however, already after the first year, we would know about the number. So we ask the government to make an assessment of the effects of the regulations after that time. He would look back now, after I state more of my rights, he would refer to the government's response to this proposal. Therefore, except for lawyers for reporting irregularities, this law provides for the following rights, subsequent salaries due to temporary inability to work, release from participation in the coverage of part of the costs of health care, cost of transport, advantage in the employment of applicants of irregularities, privilege in the purchase of vehicles and orthopaedic aid. Actually, it's just that you don't have to pay taxes. And there are, therefore, prescribed violation provisions for offenders. As for the government's own assessment, the government has, of course, rejected this proposal, and I'm glad it wasn't for some kind of banal reason, as they usually do. That they worked a little harder this time, even on page 8, they wrote an explanation, not like before in a few rows. I would like to refer to the meaning as I have already said, it is planned in the Action Plan for 2017 and 2018 to bring forward a new, of course, government law in the anti-corruption strategy of 15-20 years. This clearly confirms that it absolutely takes specialized law to solve this problem and that we are absolutely right here. Furthermore, I call on the government, once again, to include single whistles in the task force to draft the proposed law in question. The government is disputed, which, therefore, is on the page. Paragraph 5. Therefore, according to Article 22 of our proposal, the right could be requested by all, therefore, after June 25, 1991. The government is afraid of it, and it's written in an explanation, because, well, maybe too many people would come forward, so maybe it would overload the state budget too much. So I'm asking, why is someone who was in '95, '98? or reported corruption in a large Croatian company in 2002, why is it less valuable than who will report it in 2019? If Croatian defenders, today thank God for asking for their rights, why not whistlers, too, and some of them are without any rights for decades, could not today, ask for, from their country, which they wanted to help and in whose honesty they believed, to be granted some of these statuses and rights. We find this unacceptable and feel that this can be regulated legally and that we are ready to cooperate with the Government on a legal solution. There is also an unconstitution, which I remember from the Law on the Communist Economy, but I believe it can be overcome. Of course, the main problem is the big money. Much more for the defence of Croatia and Croatian sovereignty will contribute to the protection of whistles, people who report irregularities from within, rather than fighter planes, much, much more. Furthermore, the Government states on page 5 that the situation could occur if, according to the draft, certain applicants had much greater rights than other law-edited notifiers. It's being handled by the Attorney General himself. He will have to make a selection, a certain filter, and on the one hand we provide our rights, which can give the state with the current economic condition to the applicants, to initiate a way of thinking about reporting corruption and that they are heroes of Croatian society and that on the other hand we do not go to extremes because our legal proposal that the Ombudsman will assess who was really there, who was at the right time in the right place and reported an irregularity, who may have falsely reported it or unwittingly reported it, it is all regulated by this law. So I don't see the problem by reason of the government. Furthermore, the Government states on page 6 of paragraph 3 that further consideration should be given to the appointment of a counsel to protect applicants of irregularities. Since it's not about a larger group of people who would have a need to protect themselves. On the one hand, we have a huge fear of a large number of applicants, for them as if we don't have the money, and on the other hand there aren't so many, they don't need a special lawyer. Whenever we want to do one job effectively, then we have to do a specific or at least temporary centralization of that job, so that's why a special body that would deal with these jobs is being set up right here. This way, when we have it in five, six ministries of 20 laws, we see how it works, unfortunately now, and when we leave everything to the judiciary, we unfortunately see and how it works. This is, of course, the prizes that the applicant would receive, so if the applicant in his workplace detects corruption, let's say I don't know in Croatia, 10 million kuna is missing, the applicant reports it has a percentage of that amount that he actually saved, saved the country for all of us, to get a certain reward. It doesn't have to be as originally indicated. This is just the first reading. I call upon the government, the most important will is therefore, if there is a will, there will be some amount that is acceptable to all, these people will be pleased. And at the end of the day, it's not about rights or money as much as it is about creating perception and one different relationship to corruption. It is also said that the funds were not planned in the state budget for 2018, of course not, but I would call on the government to read again. So the law would have been implemented since 2019, so it doesn't have to be in the 2018 budget, but it doesn't matter. It's all this technical stuff that I won't blame them for, so don't blame us either. Here's almost 25 minutes passed in my explanation, this was a purely technical legal slightly dry part of an explanation of certain items, articles and intentions. I would now like to touch and pay some tribute to those who believe and still believe that Croatia can be a country with a zero degree of tolerance towards corruption and who believe that corruption should be fought to the end. Here's to honor all of them, I invite all of us both as a society and as institutions to sort out their status more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76790	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, the first replica has Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sincic, you are absolutely right, so there is no fight against corruption without citizens reporting corruption in good faith. We'll probably look back today at some of these, I'd like to mention this at the very first Croatian whistle Mrs. Ankica Lepey. 18 years ago, which is probably because of the stress she suffered after that even though she received public and media support, but also a number of attacks today are struggling with cancer and here from this place I want to welcome her and wish her every good. What I want to correct because it is significantly wrong you listed the Euro barometer so 94% of Croatian citizens think Croatia is a corrupt country, 58% think corruption has progressed in the last three years, but what is most difficult from that Euro barometer while in the EU 18% of citizens say what is few, I say only 18% in the EU declares that they would report corruption, in Croatia it is only 4%. So that data to only 4% of citizens report corruption is a data that we all have to worry about and bring all possible legal and other mechanisms to at least increase to this European level of 18%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76792	Thank you. Mr. Sincic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76793	Thank you, Chairman. Here you are, and you've fixed my data that I've provided, and those data are really scandalous, they're earthquakeous. If the government of Mr Plenkovic wonders what kind of country she is in charge of and if there is any courage to deal with corruption at all. Of course not. We've seen that before. We can and we will have to make laws to protect whistles and limit corruption, but what about the decades that went behind us in the '90s, 2000, 2010 where we are now? So much time has passed, so much money has leaked out of the pockets of Croatian taxpayers, gone to who knows what side, often our own money that was alienated used against ourselves is what's worst. They take our own money, our own public money, and they use it to limit both our rights and our freedoms and ultimately material wealth. There's a whole series of people who got hurt, and here's a few days ago, I met one of them, too. There are many cases where people have both mental and physical health consequences, not only them but also members of their families. And I'm wondering who I've been here for two years, how come the problem hasn't been solved long before, and that a much clearer attitude hasn't been taken by all the governments so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76794	Thank you very much. Mr. Stevo Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76795	Your Honor, Vice President. I absolutely imitate a young colleague in what he says, with the need to draw attention when it comes to rights, there is no need to talk about the rights of Croatian defenders every time, and many have not achieved their rights, and they deserve it. I welcome the presence of Mrs Balenovic here, too, for her merits in the fight against the corruption of this country. As a former police officer and as a member of the Anti-Corruption Council, I must note that, according to reports submitted by corruption councils in previous councils, I have been given the impression that in Croatia, there is no need for these councils at all, because in Croatia, there seems to be no corruption. The only state official, convicted of corruption, is Tihomir Loncevic, who was eventually released. So I'm wondering myself, and you're probably wondering, where did the money go? Where are the money from the Croatian people that has died in all the robberies so far? Croatian whistles and all whistles and researchers, journalists, should be protected for one reason, because it is a very rare group that dares to speak at all in a way that accuses anyone from the state summit, economic and economic and any other, without being in danger. As a cop, I know what it means to have an informant on the street, who's gonna give you a tip in time, how to beat a criminal or find him or prove it to him. We also know about the concept of protected witnesses, we know about the concept of penitents, and why they have no idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76796	Thank you, Mr. Culey. Time is our enemy. They'd call it the Turks. [[I'm not looking at the clock, I'm sorry.]] Mr. Sincic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76797	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Culey, you've made a good cut of a part of this problem, you have experience yourself, which through this constituency body, through your former workplace. You asked where the money was. I would refer to an interview, which was related to a documentary, which was recently published, a story, where the Mamic family pulled money from Croatia, jobs went through Switzerland, and certain tax havens in the Caribbean America and a Swiss investigator, a canton prosecutor, cannot remember the name, says that in life she did not see so large in the scope and complexity in terms of the number of transactions of activities in the form of money withdrawal from the Republic. Well, I would ask the question, is there any Croatian bodies, which are able, such as the Swiss prosecution, to track and track, to the markets of money that came out of Croatia, unfortunately it has proved that there are no or these bodies, there is someone systematically sabotaged and disabled. It's not impossible to find money flows and we also know from a number of tips, here, things will only be revealed to me. What has now happened with Mamic, not some Croatian institutions have said, but Swiss. And that's personal to me, which I've been fighting since 2011, such a thing confirmation, perhaps one of the first and the main certificates, legal confirmation that that money exists and we have to ask ourselves as a society and find a solution to how to get it back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76798	The third line has Mr. Nicola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76799	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sincic, the Bridge will support this bill of yours. What we consider extremely important is, of course, the fight against corruption. We have shown this, which at local levels in the fight against local sheriffs, which since we appeared on the national scene, means both times because of the fight for transparency and in this fight against corruption, means two governments, first those Oreshkovics, where HDZ has torn down the diameter they brought themselves, because we have warned about the link between Mr Karamark and the people related to MOL especially Jose Petrovic, and then this second government, where we did not want to agree to these games about Agrokor, where we insisted on the responsibility of Minister Maric. But what I would mention is, here's the thing about Agrokor and what's very interesting, and as far as whistlers are concerned, is the situation that is currently being explored, who has provided one portal with data that compromises Ante Ramljak, that has been examined, over here, writes one portal that about 400 employees, who have already provided the Index with information, have now been former Prime Minister Ante Ramljak, for another 20 days since he was appointed to that position, or that he was still employed in the Texo Managment. And this one, no one is questioning the responsibility of Minister Dalic, Ante Ramljak himself, he just left, his company still earns a lot of money, no one has suffered any political responsibility or political damage. Now these people are being interrogated and 20 of them I think who entered his card is subject to questioning. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Grmoya.]] And maybe he'll be held responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76800	Answer, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76801	Let me finish my sentence, not even six seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76802	No, it's time, I told you twice that time is up, here you go, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76803	Thank you, Chairman, as far as Mr. Ramljak is concerned, we've all learned that information from the media. And I'm happy that the media is getting more and more, at least those portals have been doing research and demonstrations, we've all seen that card, which has a list since the '90s. Maybe even the '80s. Print to the company where Mr. Ramljak worked. Clearly, one of the employees, with a computer, entered the register and printed out Mr. Ramljak's entire history. So that's what a brave individual did. We can talk about illegalities or not. However, information has been released to the public, and now there is no return of honesty from the bottle. If one person or two has entered, it is likely that one person or two will be detected. If 400 of them got in at a similar time, they probably won't. But what's sad about this whole process? The fact that there are certainly those in Croatia who receive wages to verify such things and to inform this Assembly of where Mr Ramljak was working. The question arises why they didn't do such a test in time. I've asked this phone booth several times, have you checked this man who is Mr. Ante Ramljak, where he worked, with whom? Did you get into his history a little bit, financial transactions, assets? What kind of property does Mr. Ramljak have? We don't know anything about that. So how are we going to fight corruption when we simply have to reform the entire system obviously by starting with this law, because the current structure was simply not able to do or send for security verification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76804	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76805	The Honorable President, well here is the day of the Dalekvod strike in Velika Gorica, which has been on strike for 7 days because a HDZ man wants to give them a collective resignation and offers them salaries that are much less than ever. And why is that? Because the Dalekovod is about to collapse like many other companies, and that is why, among other things, it has not been adopted before. We in Croatia only react when we see workers on strike or on the street. If there were, or if the law we propose was passed today 20 years ago, then we wouldn't know about shipbuilding problems at a time when 8 months of co-operatives weren't paid, when workers were two months behind on late salaries, etc. It's a lot, a lot sooner. And the main reason why we always, as a rule, always find out too late about problems in many companies, ministries, etc. Only because people don't dare speak. You don't dare speak out of fear of being punished and this law that you have proposed that rewards a whistler who encourages people to say a positive kind of rat, not a negative one. Unfortunately, I am convinced, or not convinced, but I know that the HDZ majority will vote against this law. I invited them today to the board meeting that if any article is disputed, let them give amendments but they are not actually discussed about the law. They don't want him, they'll vote against, they won't make any amendments. The goal is simply to keep this policy going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76806	Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76807	Comrade Pernar, it is primarily important for us as the Living Wall to strengthen Croatian institutions and to pass laws that will solve Croatian problems and then respect these laws. We're in a situation now that we're a society that stagnates, a society that fails. We don't have an immune system in Croatia. So, when an anomaly arises, we want to talk about irregularities, violations, crime should be an institution that will rightly respond to such an anomaly at the right time. We don't have it in Croatia. Our institutions such as the Justice Inspectorate or the State Attorney's Office or the Croatian Courts, the police in many segments are unable to process these irregularities. On the contrary. The situation is that those who report, not only those who report, or who would eventually be witnesses, but people in the system. Well, imagine now, there are a lot of honest people in the judiciary. Someone's working on a Sanader case or someone's fair judgment, and then some senior court just cancels it all out and throws it in the water. What motivation does this honest Croatian judiciary official have when all his work is violated at higher levels. We can go into certain details, individual cases. We've heard them a lot over the years, but the numbers are there. Our statistics are devastating. What is the relationship to these policies by the Croatian government we see. The perception of citizens is what it is, so we know we have a problem. And then what does the government do? The government of one idea, so we all agree with the idea that whistles should be protected, corruption should be fought. Now, what kind of form are we going to give up? The government usually has one tradition, so to weaken, or bet on that law that it is only in principle, and it is essentially not solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76808	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Bunzac's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76809	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the ruling majority will not accept this law, for as I have already established several times in a parliamentary debate, they cannot go against themselves. So if they were to allow the bill of whistles to be passed then it would be seen that there are actually no irregularities, illegalities only in the economy, but that there are even more illegalities in the state administration and at the very top, so governments and parliaments, and that is a very unpleasant truth for them, which is why they simply do not want to adopt this law, although most of the countries in the world have it. Here's a specific case. Here's to say Mr Bruno Mirtl, who was once a member of the Liberal Party who today at least theoretically had his own representative in the Europarlament, testified that Mr. Ivica Todorovic had given him 50,000 kunas for his party's needs, and made it clear by analogy that these large parties, so HDZ and SDP received far greater amounts than his small party from the same tycoon. And what happened after the announcement of that testimony, the ruling majority let Mr. Todorovic go to London and never come back to us again. So that's how problems are solved in Croatia. They're pushing under the carpet, they're hiding. Nothing concrete is being done, and Mr. Myrtle can speak for himself. And if he's lucky, he won't be carrying any more serious sanctions for what he's truly witnessed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76810	Thank you, too. Just one little cartoon, no liberal party in the European Parliament, of ours, of ours, no liberal party, I don't think I even know if there are any more parties. Because this gentleman who's been in the other one is a stranger now. Here you go, sir, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76811	Thank you, Chairman. Here is a colleague of Bunjac you have very successfully detected the biggest problem that I particularly pointed out here after the pay phone, which is systematic corruption, or political corruption. If we in this assembly are acting in a way that we shouldn't behave, I don't mean little things like coming into the department or not every time, but I mean those big things like knowing who sent us to this House, who's holding us, and what they sent us here to do, what to vote, what to talk about, we need to know that we're responding to our voters. I find it incomprehensible, it is incomprehensible to me that political corruption in which someone is sent here to advocate one side and then under who knows what circumstances, or because of some money or some concession, or perhaps because of a threat or extortion, then change sides and goes to the other side. It's absolutely for every conviction. On the other hand, we might wonder who might complain to such a person as a representative? Perhaps such a person lost confidence in the Croatian judiciary, so she gave in under pressure. That's the other side of the story. Both sides of that story we have to be able to solve as a society. And then when such corruption occurs at this House of the High, then harmful measures are voted out, the Agrokor Committee is shut down. We do not need to know absolutely anything about Agrokor, or what is in the archives of DORH, or what Dalic, or Todorovic, or one or the other will tell us. Then bad, harmful laws are passed. Then harmful budgets shall be voted upon. In the end, corruption is spreading from this room to all sides, and above all, the main branch is the one holding the government, which is in a deep conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76812	Now the answer is Mr. Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76813	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Sincic, you spoke of corruption and "whispers" are needed right now, they need to be protected for this reason, because of that corruption that is invisible. So “the whistler” is the man who will point to corruption that we do not see, which is generally not visible to us. But what we lack besides that is to prevent this very visible corruption, which is obvious, which everyone sees. It's not even called corruption, and actually it's corruption, it's clientism. So political clientism is a paradigm of behavior in the Republic of Croatia, he was a paradigm of behavior in that socialist Republic. What's this about? In that former state, you were unable to advance if you were not a member of the Union of Communists, the Communist Party of Croatia, the Union of Communists of Croatia. You couldn't get an important position, you couldn't be the boss, you couldn't be the director, you couldn't be the director today, you couldn't be the director of the state sector, you could be something more important and you could be more important jobs, these professional ones, you can't get if you're not a member of the party that decides about it. State secretaries, ministerial assistants, board members, board members, all one big octopus in a local, state-run administration that depends on the ruling. And then why is it voted for by the ruling? So we can make our own interests come true. We're not voting for some party because it would be good for society, we're voting for our little, tiny interest. It's the worst form of corruption, and it's not called corruption. It's this clientism and that customerism is also needed to prevent some future laws, but it's not a topic now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76814	Mr. Sincic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76815	Thank you, Chairman. counterpart Alexic, clientism is one part inherited from the former state system, i.e. this way of thinking. He is also particularly present in today's Croatia with nepotism. He, I would say, is a "smaller brother" of clientism, because still families, even wider families, are not as big as the high prices of the party. So this one system of negative selection, not to wonder what you can do, what kind of school you've finished, how you can, have been rewarded, that nothing at all is seen, but just to see if you have a particular party card. We are in one system of negative selection that the bad ones choose worse than themselves, and that the good and the best are pushed, not only outside the public sector, but also the Republic of Croatia itself. It is evident to all of us, and we must all understand together that this is a path that does not lead anywhere, but in the disappearance of the Croatian people and we must all work together both legislatively and ultimately by enlightening each other to do so such practice, and the best way to do so is to call each other and verify each other, because only when good democratic practices are established will this country be able to move forward. Because this much clientelism is a huge stone, a huge ball around the foot that is holding back, making progress for the Croatian state impossible. And if you were to ask the citizens on the street, many people don't even know what the word clientelem means, it's a word if I'm not wrong about Latin origin, but if you could explain to them what it is. Here, perhaps we should use some Croatian name more if there is one that would be easier to identify and then it would probably increase consciousness. Absolutely needs a special law, I'm already working on it with one piece with a group of people who would suppress political corruption. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Sincic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76816	Thank you. And now we move on, let's move on to the Committees question, does he want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the government's representative, Mr. Josip Salapic, want to add something? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first Mr. Miro Bulj, of course in front of the representative of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary. Here, before us, the Law was mentioned just before by the promoters of the Life of the Wall and the SNAGA that this was supposed to be the Law 20 years or 25 years ago, and in this framework of the law, I don't see any objections from the Government who said, how much I understood from the promoter, that the problem here is some kind of money. Surely inciting whistles, i.e. This Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity would certainly be an excess of what would ensure people by this Law, i.e. where all of these people's rights are defined, where they've also been secured, and if there's unwitting reporting, then complete, so, attorney general. So, this law states everything and I'm sorry that this isn't the Law that was supposed to be in the morning, that this debate should be in front of several parliamentary deputies and the whole public because this is basically the Law that we're going to support roundups because it's just like, at a local level, corruption and crime at a local level and it's actually making me go into politics and I've had an independent list for 15 years. Many, too, have reported irregularities in times and due to the lack of funds for weapons that were planned in Sinj, which have never been returned. But here is the basic problem that this is taking seriously, this proposal of the Living Wall and the Power Force. This law has a serious framework, a serious problem is being talked about, a key problem where 95%, as counterpart Jovanovic said, seems to me, or 94% of Croatian people, is not the world-wide issue where people say it is simply corruption in the Republic of Croatia. So, it's a corrupt state and this is a serious law, and that's why I'm surprised, I'm sorry that at the very least he's not a minister here, but if he's not a prime minister. Number one is the problem, even though I'm not a Parliament representative from the Living Wall and the SNAGA list, I think this is an excellent law, an excellent framework. The government needed this much and the Ministry of Justice took this much more seriously and made its remarks, of course, which would have been appreciated by the promoter and would have started with the problems above all, the people who are responsible, who have so far warned i.e. which reported irregularities. We have numbers, but the fact is that only those people who pointed to problems were killed. They didn't get killed by the missing grain in the peasant silos, 18.5 thousand tons. Look out! Steal 18.5 thousand tons. Nine thousand jumpers, no one knows where they went. Someone claims it's missing from Todorovic's company, but there's no evidence of that. There's only one thing that's been peeling potatoes, I know that, for about nine million kunas, and that's all. I think that, in the case of INA, when the White Nights were a problem, so then the person who whistled, Mrs. Balenovic, if we look back on it, is in this legal framework because of our courage, we provide some kind of security, and we give those future motivation to report irregularities. And this proposal puts a fence against those who do it unconsciously or threaten others, and they did not. Therefore, this Law is good. I'm sorry, too, that there was no law like this before. In fact, we have in the legal frameworks, however, institutions, the question of what the institutions were doing because we have to list here, e.g. INA. INA was a problem that caused the government to fall. We need to know there's a government. So this isn't an ideological issue of corruption. It's not a question of the Most, or the Living Wall, or the HDZ, or the SDP. We need to know that INA has begun to privatise and this whole chaos has been done by the SDP government, and the government of live Sanader has ended. And no one was convicted. Of course we're gonna lose to arbitration. However, whistles are not protected. Here we have protected mechanisms, we have an attorney who will be the person the Parliament will appoint, so the person who knows that matter. We have prescribed protection for these people and their families in all situations or when it comes to... Or when their lives are threatened and their health is protected and these people are the heroes of this society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's no argument here. In this toad of crime and corruption, these are people who need to be encouraged and essentially should be rewarded because they will save a lot of money, a lot of resources and mistrust in institutions, so, from the judiciary, respected secretaries and you yourself know that such a situation is on the ground. So, you come when you go among the citizens, we all know it's mistrust. Also, when we think of telecommunications. Telecommunications began the HDZ government and ended the SDPs. Doesn't matter who the government is. So this isn't a question of the Most, or the Living Wall, this is a question of all the questions. Brave people are provided for the future, so those who have worked so far, but even, you said that only 4% in the Republic of Croatia would report corruption and 18% in the EU. In all, it says everything, how terrified people are. So imagine that there was courage in the CNB when 10 billion kunas without cover were used by the stock exchange Todoric, Agrokor. If someone wasn't brave in the CNB, say the governor, jokes the governor. I personally filed criminal charges against them because they were doing their job unconsciously or at the Stability Council, the financial stability of the company, and I also filed a criminal report, but I have to lift it. Of the released experts from the former ministers, so why did it welcome me, a man who wouldn't even be activated in a local policy bar that went all right. Ten billion kuna, but it's from the CNB, the stability council, if you reported it, it wouldn't be a shaken economic situation like now, and it's a drop in the sea. So the CNB, the most professional, most competent people knew about it, the stability council where the finance minister is, that are representatives of the HANFA and that are representatives of the CNB and where is the governor and president of that institution. And if they hadn't reported it, imagine if they had the courage to have one of them and say it in time, today wouldn't have been the case for Agrokor to be this kind of gabarites, but it would have been settled. They didn't have the courage, and today they're governors, vice governors, and these whistles that were reported for INA or for other reasons, irrelevantly, that it's about my late father, they either got hurt or they lost their jobs, they don't have any security, and it just works that way. I think that this law that essentially unites into one whole of the applicant's irregularities or as we like to popularly say whistles would essentially get security, those brave people who threaten their lives would essentially be for the general good would be people who were insured by this law and we would support it. Here I remember that brief government when I opened the consulate case, and when I only mentioned Jozo Petrovic, just mentioned him, there was chaos in the state. So these are untouchable persons, and when you mention them all these political elites that were before, they look at you like a calf in a colorful door. And of course there's been chaos because these people want to have a monopoly, these people have been constantly inside the system, now they're managing the system, we have to thank here and send a strong message and a piece of media that had the courage and journalists to present facts in a number of these situations, I think this is a topic of all themes. This is a convention of all conventions. There's no ideology here, there's no light here. This subject should be discussed by the Prime Minister and then said I can't wait for the opposition to vote for this. But I say I don't know how to vote most of this bill that was supposed to be, I'm sorry it wasn't before, I'm sorry, here personally, no matter what was in the two governments for a while but I'm here to commend them openly and look them in the eyes and say this law is good, this law is acceptable and it's embarrassing what the government is giving some remarks that could be classified as an amendment and suggest them here, deny it. And I expect from the promoter, I am sorry that it is not at least a minister because this is too serious a question, silenced the secretary and not answering the questions of the legislator of this law that protects those who are going to fight corruption, which is why at least five minutes later he has not announced and given the proposer further explanations but simply, this subject will not be brought seriously here by the prime minister, who has made the proposal of the club not Most but of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and who should unanimously adopt, of course, with certain amendments and remarks and probably even to some moments yet, but it has been written literally, I mean it has been written with all the contents, with all the features, with all the descriptions of the terms. And here's what's being mentioned here is the Attorney General for the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, it's all summed up in this law and a couple of some government remarks that are basically defined by the law here, and it seems to me that a lot of costs have been mentioned. How much would the costs be reduced if someone from the CNB was, I'll repeat again, then say hey, so you can't use the money without the bonds, Mr. Todorovic. If someone had the courage that Bozo Petrov had then and said you wouldn't do it, and that's when they filed a criminal report, those are the topics we need to talk about, it's a convention of all conventions. I know it's forbidden to speak in a certain part of the majority about the Istanbul Convention at this point, the Deputy Prime Minister is sorry he's not leading, so I would have referred him that question, I know it all, but let's talk about this if it's forbidden. I have an attitude about this convention, but that's less important. This is the story of all stories. Protect the people, the heroes of this society and those who have so far been and motivated others to point to irregularities. And because 94% of Croatian citizens think give the state corrupt, they don't trust the Croatian system, the judiciary, all institutions are the biggest reason for the departure of people from the Republic of Croatia. Confidence in the system. Surely no democratic state was created because of this we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. So we have a case in the Gorski kotar which is either Slavonia, but in the Gorski kotar I was recently, with the mayors, where the tree, the resource, is huge potential, we have even saw some but no, we have labor force, no, the tree is exported to other countries, Italy, our workers go there and there is creating additional value there with our workers and the Gorski kotar is empty. So thousands of examples of such, Shipbuilding, in my area of weapons and beyond, which have disappeared, these people should be rewarded. These people need to be provided, these people need to be shown as positive examples. Especially for those of us who are in politics. These are positive people, and I don't see any reason for the government to reject this proposal on corruption and seriously report irregularities. To whistlers that these people feel safe although it is to report some kind of crime or some kind of corruption very dangerous to life, by family, and I believe that this is the unserious proposal of the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA which is well prepared, where certain amendments or remarks can be indicated, however, this will obviously be rejected. And once again, I'm sorry this wasn't in the morning, this is one of the topics of a couple of key topics in the Republic of Croatia is a number of five kunas in my Sinj, they didn't have five dinars now owned by the city. They didn't get on the lot or left their fathers, I personally applied for it now could read as much as that, until I was a politician and that activism forced me into politics. Thank you. Mostly this bridge supports the triggers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76818	Time, sir. Thank you, too. But you've got replicas, so you'll be able to develop a further debate. The first line is Mr. Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76819	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Bull. It is clear to me, as you do, that political corruption in Croatia has been from the beginning of the war to today and that we have failed to break it out with any laws or by adopting them. Of course I went into politics myself, bothering me with all the conditions that were happening in Croatia that I couldn't stand and here I came alone with you, later with Professor Lovrinović. But it's clear to me after the war that there's been some kind of insubordination, that the crime takes its place, but it's not really clear to me after 25 years that we haven't gotten it into any frames of normal life. Looking at the unpaid taxes of 40 billion, who has the right to do so in this country, we're going to write off those debts. They took 35 billion outside where foreign agencies were tracking the movement of money, so it was published by American companies that said 35 billion were taken out of the country, so INA, then Pliva, and all these other companies. Well, then we here in the Parliament are interested in each party getting 25 grand for a parliamentary representative where there's no transparency in spending that money, and here we're all going to talk about honesty, we're not going to do it, we're going to do it, and we're all going to turn out to be the same. How is it possible that there is someone for one parliamentary representative more money a month than the salary of a parliamentary representative who I consider to be also a great 15, 16000 kuna, and 25000 kuna gets a party, so here's mine that I don't have, of course, touch with that money or I can control it. And so I think that even in this government to take a step forward, but we'll see and of course I support... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76820	Answer, Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76821	If my colleague Misic, for the first time on the same list, we didn't even know each other, we entered this Parliament, and 12 people bravely said he didn't want to participate in a corrupt government that would be managed by someone like Mr... Jozo Petrovic. I wasn't interested in that, you were one of those advocates to agree with Mr. Karamark the Government, then you entered with the Living Wall. Now you're in power, you have your secretary at the Ministry of Justice, I'm sorry that Mr. Juro Maritovic is not and you are really that very guideline to talk about how the Parliament works this way. With whoever you're chosen with or down means it's a scam of the people this power at this point, you're a participant of it, you're part of the government, you have to admit it simply that you've been chosen with the attitudes of the Living Wall before the Bridge and that you first issued the Bridge of course ideas, I'm not a member of the Bridge, you've decided, and then here you are now the ones who hold the power of this moment. And really at this point about our proposals, I'm sorry, but here I am glad that I'm not jealous that my colleagues from the Living Wall have suggested this, I'm clapping on this one. It took someone 20 years ago, and I'm supporting it both ways. I believe that I have also proposed this law so that colleagues from the Living Wall would say ok regardless of our specific differences. Believe me, the current government, the majority in this House, is a reflection of that non-trust situation in institutions of 94%. Much fairer elections, the political options they get from voters are that they behave transparently here, and the Most made 8 million kuna is less reduced funds for political parties, and you are now in power and I believe and influence the judiciary and I am sorry that fellow Misic...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76822	Thank you very much. Time. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76823	Comrade Bulj, you have pointed out several times the problem of citizens' trust in institutions. So corruption, we will all agree on the cancer of Croatian society that lasts for years and eats up Croatian society, so that if there is cancer, while citizens do not trust institutions that should treat this cancer, it is almost an unexplainable situation. That's why 95% of citizens would not report corruption, 81% of citizens believe that without political competence they cannot advance. And the largest number of young people leaving Croatia was recently a major poll, he spent why not say portal Index.hr where 16200 respondents responded to him leaving Croatia for corruption, so the first place they left Croatia was corruption. So that's the main problem. Until we resolve corruption in Croatia, young people will continue to leave because they will not see the future in Croatia. The other day I was watching a movie, talking about depression, and it was beautifully said depression is the inability to see the future. So we can say that our young people are depressed because they can't see their future in Croatia and that's why they're leaving Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76824	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76825	A colleague of Jovanovic, a statistical indicator that you have presented and polls by portals, says the fact, says this is a theme of all topics. And this bill of law, in which they gave their colleagues, is simply unserious, unseriously taken. Here's the laugh of the secretary of the ministry himself more about the government's behaviour towards this law. This isn't a question of ideologies or a worldview, which we don't have to agree on. We need to be unanimous here, and some diameter calls on ideological topics or disputes, no matter what, that's where they'll see how much opposition they're going to make to someone to be President of the European Council tomorrow. This is the theme of all topics. We don't have to agree on ideology, about the world's horizon, and that's good in democracy to express our views. But this is the theme of all the topics of fellow MPs, Your Honor. And here there should be a minister and a prime minister and invite you unanimously to support this proposal with additions to colleagues from the Living Wall and the SNAGA on this proposal and coordination. However, it is obvious that this will be rejected. And because of this, this proposal is a proposal and a topic that was meant to be in prime time, that the public listens and watches, because citizens want us to discuss this law, and that these people, a colleague of Jovanovic, get security, especially those who have suffered harm, because those who have robbed the Republic of Croatia, who are free to walk and who are leading politics have certainly not experienced it. And our companies, no matter which government, I mean I don't take myself either, although I'm a little shorter in high politics. It's from the local sheriff to the top of the country. And this is a serious problem, Madam Secretary, and feel free to transfer this to the government, and we fellow MPs, on this law, need to be unanimous, this is a convention of all conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76826	Time. Mr. Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you were talking about whistles fighting corruption, and we have one fact that the entire social groups in Croatia are whistles, which are Croatian fans. So both Hajduk fans and Torcida and Bad Blue Boys have for years warned of possible corrupt activities in the Croatian Football Federation. That's what they did before all the judicial institutions. And in the end, it turns out the charges were confirmed. And we had a Bud Blue Boys protest Saturday against privatization to Dinah. And it turns out one paradoxical fact that the privatisation of Dinam will be done by people with confirmed indictments, and the first purchase of privatisation will be given to the City of Zagreb, headed by a man who also has confirmed indictments. Well, here, just please comment on that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76828	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, thank you very much, Mr. Bull, you can speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76829	Thank you. A colleague of Sladolev, the fact that fan groups who are often in public are criticised and given all kinds of names, but still, they are according to those who run them, alliances, football alliances, Olympic board, they are these whistles, whom we need this way, at least say thank you for warning you of all the corrupt activities within the sport. And a sport that should serve for the development of young people, mostly in all parts of the country. However, it is a fact that those who should be... They collect money, and that's why they're watching sports, and there's cheerleading groups in the community and Bad Blue Boys with and Torcid as well as in the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one asked there if they were partisan, or Ustasha or this. They're not dividing you, they're dividing you on this subject. This should be unique, this should be a common position, supporting people, no matter what nations, nationalities, which, but those people who want to get rid of corruption. It's this bill of law, which contains everything that needs one law with the help of the government, that would get rid of it. However, of course, the local sheriff will care, but Zagreb is even above the state, because Zagreb is leading the state. Because a couple of MPs and colleagues who were once with us, and the last time they came in with the Living Wall, another couple, a few of them are holding a majority right now, and it was much fairer and fairer that there was no such political corruption, that there were elections and a return to the people of this mandate, so there was a time at the moment when the government was overruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76830	Thank you very much. And now it's Mr. Nicola Grmoy's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76831	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Bulj, you have talked a little bit about the way this majority of parliament is made up, and here you are welcome to have this replica of my colleague, we are talking here about fighting corruption, and we have the fact that this ruling majority is composed in a corrupt way, that it is being held by people suspected of criminal acts, who until yesterday were pillars of Milanovic's government, and now the pillars of this Plenkovic government. We have a fact that one political party has become white in this matter and holds the ruling majority. We've got a case, here's a fellow Music, who entered the Living Wall list, and he's practically holding the ruling majority now. We have the fact that certain MPs are attacking the diameter of Plenkovic, protesting the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and every Friday, such as counterpart Zekanovic, vote here neatly for all proposals coming from the government. But what no one noticed? You know who the Department of Justice has sent to defend, that is, the government's position on this law that is likely to be negative. A representative who was illegally represented here in this assembly of parliaments. Because it was supposed to be a colleague of Buric's, and MIP didn't check it out, and my colleague Salapic was here holding the ruling majority, so here in the Parliament, illegally. And what kind of fight are we talking about against corruption? The man was illegally in the Croatian Parliament is here now on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and he will probably give a negative court on the Law given by a fellow living wall. It's all said. We have nothing more to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76832	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76833	Well, a colleague of the Grmoys, they said it all. So this is a commercial government which I also believe is created in the way it was created, in fact, corrupt, this majority because it simply needs to restore its mandates to the people. That program you came on. If you don't agree with the colleagues you joined the parliament with, then it's correct to say, "Let's go to the election." That's the correct thing to do. But to be the languages of the Government, a fellow secretary who was simply an error or a intent, it is now a question of whether or not it was intentional or stopped, there is no coincidence here when it was Shakespeare, when he was overruling the dice and when it depended on one hand, of course, that a fellow secretary then as a parliamentary agent did so knowingly. ... Well, of course Buric would be at that moment because of these conflicts and of course they're messages to this parliament as well. [[You can't hear it.]] That's why they're bad grades. And of course they're going one step further. If you didn't talk about it, your colleague, Mr. Grmoy, would even change the Rules of Procedure. So remember the reaction when we speak, where I did not ask Marina Dalic, Deputy Prime Minister, was referred the question to the prime minister. Well, you remember her reaction, I just mentioned the Perun thermal power plant. So you remember? I need armor. Just here, I feel too ladyly, so I didn't want to, because we talk about conventions often now, so I didn't want to react, but I needed protection here, when we're talking about it. However, the fact, everything you said – you said exactly and therefore go away young. What counterpart Jovanovic said earlier, so statistics indicate that nearly 95% in the Republic of Croatia thinks the Republic of Croatia is a corrupt state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76834	If I was here, I'd protect you, you know, right. We have another replica of Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76835	Thank you, Chairman. These days we've been tracking probably from the media, Mrs. Laura Kovesa, a Romanian prosecutor who condemns thousands of politicians for corruption. Hundreds of thousands of citizens went to the streets of Bucharest and other cities to support it in continuing its work. She is the face of the fight against corruption in Romania. What is the face of fighting corruption in the Republic of Croatia? Chief, head, representative of which institution? Is that Dinko Cwitan? Absolutely not. He could possibly be the opposite. The one most cover-up, protects and prevents the fight against corruption. Is that Mr. Djuro Sessa? Of course not. Therefore, why did we propose this very form of the Law? Because this form, which is necessary at this stage, will centralise the fight against corruption and the protection of whistles. Centralize, the lawyer's position will be created. There will be a person who must be carefully elected, professionally, without clientelism and who will then become the face of fighting corruption. The point of this legislative proposal and the lawyer's office is to do the opposite of what seems to be happening now. The fight against corruption is now on the sidelines. On the margins of the Penal Code, on the margins of the Labour Act, I don't know what it's all about, which is all about, or what we've stated is where some form of protection is mentioned. It's all bad. The point is to centralize, coordinate from this place to protect whistles. Why? To popularize the fight against corruption. To popularize! That it becomes, as it turns out, and. Here it is, new weather, new atmosphere, new trend. Now it's time to deal with corruption. Here, 1, 2, 3, 5 people who will lead that fight. There's the law, there's their money, pick out whoever you want. Now it's time to deal with it. This law creates positions for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76836	Time. Thank you. Answer, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76837	My colleague Sincic, this bill of law, I have read all 114 articles, in the foundations of all research, we know what corruption is, what it represents, we know what whistlers are. applicants of irregularities. Therefore, this Law has meaning, everything a law should have. You are from the body, the right, from the whistler or the applicant of irregularities, their rights, the rights of the family in the event of their threat, all described by this Act. From the D.A. to the D.A.'s office, so we've got everything. The government should at least analyze, come here, explain, not have the trouble of a secretary all the time. Well, at least he'd like to explain to you as a proposer why, what, did you deny him? If money's a problem, it's not a problem. I repeat, only that in the CNB and the Financial Stability Council, if they had reported that the bonds had been issued, the issue of Todorovic was 10 billion kuna, today would not be Agrokor in the problem, but would have been solved, years earlier. Therefore, this Law is a law that contains everything that needs to be contained and, of course, that you as proposings, if any amendment is logical and if you comply with other regulations, of course it would be no problem. Well, that's what you're expecting. You're this Law and you let us bring it together, to go affirmatively towards the people who pointed to the irregularities in this society, and who are now on the margins, sick, forgotten, and I think it amazes me, above all, that in this term, well didn't in the middle of the night, gave this, so it's a relative term and a good one. This was supposed to be in the morning, to hear the public that the Croatian Parliament is talking about a specific topic and a specific problem number 1 in the Republic of Croatia. But it's not in someone's interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76838	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the government, the secretary of state, Mr. Salapic, will speak for five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76839	Thank you, Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, Mr. Bulj, Mr. Grmoja, it is my duty as a representative of the government to answer several of your questions. First of all, my legality of today's presence at your session of distinguished deputies, I am the State Secretary, under the law of the Deputy Minister of Justice. My stay in the Croatian Parliament for 6 months has been confirmed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament by a unanimous decision that you two voted for. Also, your Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kovacic, Minister of Administration and Vice-President of the Croatian Government, has been fully informed of my mandate and has not objected for six months at all to say that when I voted for your laws when you were in the government with the HDZ, it did not bother you at all, and now that you are no longer, it bothers you, so as legalists you knew it all along and you should have reacted 6 months before and not 6 months after that because your Deputy Prime Minister must have informed you about it. So much for that. Number two, my silence here today is no silence, the government of the Republic of Croatia has given an opinion on the proposal of the representatives of MOST and SNAGA for this law, we believe that this law has a future because the government of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice is preparing a full law in the third quarter of 2018. This bill has certain shortcomings because, in its large part, it confronts laws already in force, above all I mean the Criminal Law, the Criminal Law, so that the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not a refusal of this law but a full work on a new law that will be in the third quarter of 2018. Also in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Proposer, Representative Sincic, referred to the Government's opinion so that my assessment as State Secretary present here was that Mr. Sincic delivered the Government's opinion and gave our position to the lady of this bill we do not accept, not in his own content but in his own form, because he is in line with the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia at the moment, and I particularly stress that we will pass the new law at the end of this year. Because of the seriousness of the debate today, I'm going to allow myself that depression because I've spent the full four conscripts here in a piece, I've never been illegal here, but based on the choice of a party. And the representative you called Mr. Buric knew my position very well because he had been silent for 30 days, but he was a legalist who spent a long time in the Parliament together with me and knew when to react that he wanted to and it was a matter of the HDSSB's side and not of you personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76840	Thank you, too. Five replicas, first Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76841	Thank you very much. And I was part of the majority, I didn't vote for the budget, I don't even know if you were part of the majority, I don't know what you were then. What were you then? I mean, I followed your path politically because I was an activist back then, so I know when Mr. Glavas was closing that you were with the Adriatic, that's your right, and I'm not getting involved in it. But the fact is that I was also saying that this level towards parliamentary deputies was sent by a secretary from a party who received one mandate, rather than a minister. I wanted to say it, Minister. I have not offended you a word. I just know that he got more preferential votes, that was a mandate, I don't even know why you voted, I didn't vote for the budget, and what, I don't know is you, I didn't follow at all if you were then and were at what stage, did you solve relationships with HDSSB, how you solved it, which you had a stamp, who didn't, that doesn't interest me at all. But the fact is we're talking about the most important law. And the fact is, I just sent a message saying I'm sorry that there's no minister or at least a prime minister and that he's calling for the opposition to vote unanimously for this bill with your comments. You'll pass the law at the end of the year, is that like the Archive Act? When there was a campaign then a law was passed where the archives opened and now they've closed them, of course. Now they're gonna lock them up in a second reading, but it's all going through it. The fact is that this is a very important topic and the fact is that this topic needs to be seriously approached from the highest level, and above all, according to the proposings and parliamentary representatives rather than underestimating this Parliament, and that is the problem. You have nothing to defend and not defend and call on this, and I am glad that my colleagues here, in Parliament, have proposed this law in this House, and I am sorry that this government has taken it unseriously and the ministry has taken it, that's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76842	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Salapic. Let's just make sure it doesn't get too personal, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76843	Thank you very much, Vice President. There is no need for a personal level, I have explained the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on this law and today on the Committee on Justice and now here in the Assembly, but I had to answer when you personally called me what I was doing here. I said I was the Secretary of State under the law on rank of Deputy Minister and as serious as you are in your debate, it's about you being 13, there's you three.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76844	I have to give you my word, injure the Rules of Procedure, you have to tell me which article and for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76845	Mr. Chairman, the Rules of Procedure and Relations of the Parliamentary Representative have been injured by the motionary who counts how many clubs there are by the secretary. [[/Intruder Radin: Which article?]] Protect this Parliament of individuals from trading groups who have a minor number of votes... [[Intruder Radin: He can't, he can't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76846	I'm sorry, but no, it can't. No, you didn't, Mr. Bull, you didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure, don't, don't. ... You'll talk, Mr. Bull, you'll talk later and say whatever you want. [[/Intruder Bull, not on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76847	What have you done about this, what is he insulting to the assembly representatives from the bench? He's insulted, the number of MPs here [[/Intruder Radin: Who has he offended?]] The government's representative will be counting parliamentary representatives? [[What did he say?]] Well, you've lowered the intensity of this session to a level 300 years ago, thank you. [[No, but what did he say?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76848	We're not going to pollemize, you guys, when you're calling on the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry I'm formal, you have to say which article and why, and not say the general things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76849	The integrity of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76850	Oh, no, we're not in a bar, don't be like that, we're not in a pub. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76851	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, this problem of corruption is a key problem, because it shows a complete lack of citizens' confidence in Croatian institutions, the judiciary above all, lack of integrity, credibility, politics and politicians. And it should be some kind of precedent, which would kind of change citizens' thinking about both politics and the judiciary and the sense of fighting corruption. Well, you are now in a position to make that precedent. Sit down with the representatives of the Living Wall and the Power Force and don't wait for three quarters. Together with them and this proposal for a second reading, prepare the text, which we will unanimously adopt in this assembly and thus show that there is no party color in the fight against corruption, but that we all must work together to restore the confidence of citizens in politics, institutions and bodies of public authorities in the Republic of Croatia. You have a chance to do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76852	Mr. Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76853	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Jovanovic, and you were headed by the parliamentary body to monitor the fight against corruption. We had issues in common when we discussed the laws that followed. What is important is we will also point out that we are going back to the topic of today's debate, which is that the Government has supported the proposal to adopt such a bill, because there is no single law on the protection of people who report corruption. We announced the adoption of the law in the third quarter of 2018. and today, in the Justice Committee, we have also called on the legislators of this law, since this law has certain shortcomings in its content, because it is in line with the existing positive legal regulations, which regulate matter both in the Criminal Law, the Criminal Law, the Labour Act and many other laws, which partially regulate this issue. So, I repeat, the government supports the adoption of this law, it's a single law on the protection of people who report corruption. And there's no need to question the government's intention to pass this law. I am sorry as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and today the debate has gone in a completely wrong direction, no longer talking about the protection of the right of people who report corruption, but are sitting on the personal insult of people sitting on any side of the assembly. Whether he's on the side of the government or on the side of the MPs. To whom the ministry will send as its representative, it is a decision by the minister, who will be empowered by the government to defend the laws and opinions that is also the government's authority. And all those who respect the rule of law should respect the laws, and that is clear in the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76854	Let's move on. Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76855	Thank you, Chairman. Secretary of State Salapic, in my presentation, I mentioned a passage, in which you stated, that you would therefore make your own law as Government, so I ask you this way, will there be a public debate on this draft when it is finished? And why isn't it listed here that the whistles will be included. So I ask the government to take whistles, they corner. Not organized in the association, there was a time when the whistler association, as far as I know, was unfortunately liquidated by some of Mr. Bandic's malversions. Therefore, as individuals, they could certainly contribute greatly to the quality of this law, as they contributed to the quality of this law, to cover as many scenarios and cases as possible. We, too, from the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA, are at our disposal to bring as much quality legislation as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76856	Thank you very much. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76857	Dear colleague Salapic, you have again entered a debate in which you claimed that we knew about your status. So you weren't necessary for the ruling majority at all. The ruling majority was without you. But the chairman of the MIP made one mistake because he didn't question your case. Instead of your preferred votes, either Mr. Šišljagić or Mr. Buric should have entered. Since Mr. Šišljagic is mayor, he cannot enter, and then Mr. Buric, who is mayor, should have, because he received preferential votes. And there's no way for your client to propose, there's no telling what the law is. And you weren't supposed to be a representative and no one asked. And he didn't question the meaning of the chairmanship of this Mr. Tusek. And why would he do that? We can only guess. Very likely it would mean HDZ we have some kind of reserve in mind of you if there were any problems with the Bridge. And that's where you look at every hand. And today it's on this Committee on the Constitution, and it's going to meet independent deputies. And we supported it. Now independent MPs will have one break a week legally. And those at the club have three breaks a week. And there's one attempt at courtship to get some more hands, because this one's mostly thin. But when the Bridge was part of the government, it wasn't thin. There were enough hands and she was a stable government. And those who have been talking about stability all the time, mantars almost on stability, are now announcing some extraordinary early elections. Imagine how things changed. All the time stability, stability, stability, and now, Plenkovic says, if you are not good, you will not be on the line. I'll draw up the lists, no more... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76858	Thank you very much, I'm interrupting you again because the time is over, and you should tell me "Thank you President, I've been talking about something that isn't at all," look at me Mr. Grmoya when I'm talking, look at me, look at me, please, you should have told me "Thank you Mr. Chairman, I've talked about everything and everything that has nothing to do with this law here and you haven't interrupted me."... No, and you didn't interrupt me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You should tell me, Vice President. I'm sorry, but please talk about the subject of the law now, so we can avoid all these unnecessary discussions. [[Thank you, Vice President.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76859	Vice President, I'd like to talk about the subject of the law right now, but the representative has raised a line to me as a representative of the government. Well, on the subject of the replica Mr. Grmoya gave, I'm going back to one small, small legal lesson, since you're not a lawyer. So, the Executive Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament proposed on Wednesday that date to the Croatian Parliament. On Friday, the Croatian Parliament voted on it two days later. Representatives whose right you are defending today have not responded within 48 hours and they knew about my status here further, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia can act within 30 days, no one has asked. Furthermore, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia can act in the next 30 days, no one has asked for it. And in order not to question the honesty and dignity of your Deputy Prime Minister then and the secretary of the administration, I'll tell you only in front of the public, I've heard a few times with your Deputy Prime Minister in that situation who thought the same thing I think today and that's the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76860	Okay, can we now agree to stop this and start talking about the praiseworthy law proposed by the Living Wall and about whom no one talks except the Living Wall? ... And why do you talk to me like that without asking? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And why are you talking to me like that? Because you're not talking about the law that suggested the Living Wall. You're talking about your things. You're dealing with a government official who's not proposing this bill, among other things. Mr. Misic last, please, Mr. Misic, let's stop this stuff. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76861	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State. You got me a little confused. Political corruption has existed in Croatia since Croatia existed before and before. So let's not be surprised. Here's a colleague from the Bridge, so I have to look back at them because they called me a moment ago, including my colleague Bulj and my colleague Grmoy. I was at the Bridge with you, entered the Assembly of 1300 kunas, and you didn't transfer the money you received to our association. Well, then he wonders when it was coming to this House we had to write down everything we had. I wrote everything, so look what I got into Parliament with. As far as I know, you didn't even know how to raise your credit for the apartment. I guess Dad knows how much I remember when I read in some portal. So, about corruption as soon as I'm 40 years old, I'm in this House, honestly, please check me out, I'm in business all the time and my tax card and everything that I have, and I've got plenty of solid And as for corruption, I hope, and why have I given my support to this government? [[You must replicate the Secretary of State, not Mr. Bull.]] Because the prime minister in the government doesn't have corruption behind him, and I support him in the spirit of it, and that's why I gave my hand, and I hope that this government will go in the way of corruption, and that this chain that continues, and we know the Ministers of the Bridges that they gave in the waters and quits to the people so that they could enter the schemes, was fired by Dobrović, who gave the man who to your godmothers to go in and then broke up, so it should have been. If you knew how to do that, we'd probably be in the government right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76862	Thank you very much. Then now we have the next situation, we have to give by the tradition of this House we have to give a word to one speaker before we give our word to the proposer because Mr. Pernar has asked for a word on behalf of the promoter. Now it means Mr. Ante Babic, and then we'll give the word to the promoter afterwards. Here you go. Mr. Ante Babic in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. They'll talk about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76863	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected by the promoter. So there is no doubt that corruption is a socially unacceptable phenomenon no matter how small and large and every corruption destroys Croatian society or Croatian society, and we should all fight it at all levels. Something was actually talking about this now on behalf of the Government and Mr. Secretary of State Mr. Salapic, and I will say something about the National Council for Monitoring the Strategy in the fight against Corruption, something that my colleague Jovanovic, who is the president of the National Council, said something about the perception of corruption, or the data of the Euro Barometer, where 94% of respondents actually think and are convinced that Croatian society is corrupt. And I refer to this also to the promoter that we do not forget the fact that the same people who were surveyed said and gave an assessment to MPs in the Croatian Parliament 1.9, in fact, think that we are also of those state officials who are the most corrupt and therefore the answer to you, sir... so they feel the same way about you. What is not safe about this bill when we are already talking about it, should be said that the Government has accepted this law in substance, but in a formal sense it is not and I can read certain things after which it is not formally acceptable, but I will say that within the implementation of the accompanying document, with the Anti-Corruption Strategy during 2015-2020 and the 2015 Action Plan for 2015-2016, in the Anti-Corruption Strategy, we also had several thematic sessions on the National Council, but we also had some reports and should monitor such things on the National Council, and you would see that it is not all as black as it is shown. Therefore, the development of that analysis itself was also part of the Open Authority Partnership in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2014 to 2016. The analysis in question shows the status of the whistle protection in certain countries that have a developed whistle protection system and also analyses the recommendations and guidelines of domestic and international whistle protection organisations. And on behalf of the government, the secretary of state said that in the third quarter, a comprehensive law related to the colloquism is foreseen for whistles. So what I am obliged to say, and to repeat, the proposed law on the protection of applicants of irregularities would in fact lead to a double standard of the same legal situation, since the provisions of individual laws in the Republic of Croatia partially regulate this matter, so the definition of the employer in the context of the proposal assumes only a legal person, while according to the Labour Act may be a legal and natural person. The proposal then prescribes the employer's obligation to prevent so-called "employee". vengeful behavior in the workplace itself towards the applicant of irregularities and members of his family. The proposal then stipulates that all applicants who had previously made themselves after 25 June '91. the years have the right to moral and material rehabilitation, thus establishing a retroactive recognition of material rights which is contrary to the Constitution and where the Constitutional Court has also been manifested. Furthermore, according to the same proposal, rehabilitated notifiers exercise certain rights for which decent cash should be allocated, and where the business entity that damaged the applicant or its legal follower is unable to fulfil its business obligations, the funds should be paid out of the state budget. According to the proposal, funds for the exercise of the right of applicants from compulsory health insurance are provided from the HZZO system, thus jeopardising the principle of reciprocity, solidarity, and equality for all insured persons of HZZO, as this would result in the specific category being set out in the mandatory health insurance system. The proposal also contains many other shortcomings and irregularities as the applicant did not take into account the applicable health insurance regulations. That's what the promoter himself was talking about. Thus, the Government has responded globally to the fact that this proposal gives applicants far greater rights than other perpetrators of criminal and criminal offences and thus puts them in an unequal position. There are a few other things that the Government warns about, and the motion itself has said that the government has taken your proposal seriously and has made it clear on page eight why it does not accept such a bill. Following all the above, what we have heard today, and from the very opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, HDZ will not accept such a bill in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76864	Thank you, Mr. Granny. We have four replicas, the first replica was sought by Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76865	Thank you very much. My colleague Babic, since you mentioned the National Council on several occasions only once in a sentence, there is no colleague Culej who is the same member of the council, so the citizens watch this transfer of us so that they realize that the National Council neither conducts investigations nor makes judgments. The National Council oversees the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy and is tasked with trying to improve citizens' trust in public authorities and the credibility of politicians with at least so much work. In fact, there is another devastating data, hence the level of trust of citizens in the capacity and will of state and state bodies to fight corruption, as many as 75% of citizens believe that there is no efficiency or ability of the public authority to fight corruption effectively in Croatia. And colleagues and colleagues, the only thing worse than us in that study is Thailand. So the second worst in the world for citizens' trust in public authorities is Croatia. Therefore, both what we say in the assembly and the way we try to point out the importance of whistle protection is certainly something that now goes will not increase the confidence of citizens in the bodies of public authorities, especially when we have an empty assembly like this. The assessment given to us by the citizens as Mr Babic said will continue to be 1.9, and I'm afraid it will sink completely according to the assessment insufficiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76866	Mr. Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76867	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I have so briefly touched the National Council and all those not only thematic sessions we hold on the National Council, but also the reports of the state and public authorities where we learn certain information, but also the implementation of the Action Plan. So through these activities, programmes and measures we see how and how it happens in the Republic of Croatia. I don't like to talk about those things in general, you should see that both state and public bodies carry out their activities in accordance with the action plan. The fact is also, and this is due to the public to say that it is now at a level of 60%, so you should keep talking about these things and should also say that certain things from the action plan are not possible to implement in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76868	Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76869	Dear Representative Babic. I'd like to tell you myself an interesting thought. HDZ could have done much to protect whistles, but unfortunately whistles were persecuted both before and after the Ankica Lepoj case, unfortunately. The role of us from the Living Wall is often seen as destructive, often referred to as people who have no concrete suggestions, people whose goal is simply to have fun, show and circus. However, today in the Croatian Parliament, just the ones who are called those who are not doing anything constructive, gave the most of themselves they could, and this is a concrete legal proposal that would de facto protect whistlers. In a country where it becomes possible and impossible for agencies and lawyers for all and all things, we believe that an advocate for the protection of whistles should be introduced because the problem of corruption or not reporting corruption and crime is one of the biggest, if not the biggest problem in our society. We're not asking you for blind support. We invite you if you feel that something inside our legal proposal is wrong, you can change the entire articles of the Law by amendments, you can change it in substance, you can change it if you consider something controversial. But it's you who are calling us for impracticality, sabotage, etc. It is you who actually refuse to participate constructively in this debate and constructively make a proposal, or amendment under the pretext that you will, at the end of the year, give just such a law. God forbid you give it and God forbid it protects the whistles, but, well, I seriously doubt it because these whistles basically speak against HDZ when they're given that opportunity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76870	Time. Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76871	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, as far as the seriousness of this proposal is concerned, I said that the government has accepted this materially, but there is an observation in its form. But I'm going to answer something in your style now, Mr. Pernar. You usually go like this. Here, it says on the portal: The Living Wall has not only arrived once with several tens of thousands of euros, but several times. We're talking about the whistler now. Hrvoje Runtic, formerly co-chair of the Living Wall, found himself one evening in the late hours at the head of the party in Hondlova 2 and saw Ivan Pernar with an envelope full of euros waiting for Sincic. We need to change that into kunas to cover the black holes, and we need some money a week, Pernar Runtic said and gave him the money to Sincic. I should trust this portal now if that's the case. Here, as a colleague, I may trust you more. But this is your style, actually, as we deal with people in the Croatian Parliament just because we have that possibility, and they don't have the opportunity to defend themselves. So here's how you treated that whistler, Hrvoje Runtic. He's no longer with you, you wanted to throw him out, you did it, and then he protected him from the Most, to which he approached. So I don't have to trust this portal with what it says. But that's what he writes. So we can't make it into the Republic of Croatia as if it's all speculative. Everything's a little speculative for us. And the people and the investors and the teachers and the doctors and the MPs. That's why perception is in the Republic of Croatia. That's why we have that grade in the Croatian Parliament. Besides, I'll remind you, you're saying that during HDZ, there was a lot of money. Today doesn't seem like it anymore. So I ask you, where's the money? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76872	But when they say we're dealing with ourselves, they're mostly right. I see it today after the discussion. I beg you one more time, we're talking about the law. Thank you very much, Mr. Shucker, for refreshing my brain. The next line is Mr. Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76873	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Babic, you've actually read what I've read in part. You said the government agrees with the content. Here, I hope he agrees with the content, that you won't throw out the D.A., that you won't throw out a lot of rights. And as for the form, what the government is writing in its own statement, I'll only give you two now, if I get three things that aren't right. Thus, among other things, on page 6, the Government of the Republic of Croatia indicated that those funds were not planned in the State budget for 2018. Well, we're not even looking for money in 2018. It clearly writes to you in our proposal right at the beginning, so in the chapter where the costs are, the last sentence: the costs for implementing this Act will be foreseen in the national budget for 2019. Therefore, the government writes something that does not stand in our request at all. The second thing, in the government's statement, page 3, paragraph 3, further, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points to the definition of the employer as regulated by Article 3. 3. etc. The employer is a natural or legal person who employs workers according to art. 4. The labour law. So what's in our proposal? It is clearly defined here at the beginning, where definitions are definitions within the meaning of the Law and what is an employer and what is a business entity and what is a notifier etc. Among other things, the employer writes that the business entity where the applicant works, etc., and the business entity clearly writes, are registered legal persons, public authorities, etc., and natural persons carrying out the registered activity. Therefore, we have prescribed here the opposite of what the Government claims, that the employer may be a natural person. Here, I don't get to go to third. It's just some of the formal failures of these explanations of yours. Of course, it's not in line with some laws, I've stated why and I've stated how it can be solved. I suggest we all sit together at the table and have these formal disagreements, the few that are left, get rid of it and go into the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76874	Answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76875	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Sincic, therefore, when you have one such serious proposal of the Law before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then you are obliged through that PFU form, i.e. the Fiscal Responsibility Act, to specify exactly the things that are related to incomes, i.e. expenditures, therefore, there must be no big reasoning. As regards the Advocate's Office on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity. So, you weren't in the Parliament at the time, and I remember very well the former occupier Malcic, including the current Mrs. Laura Vidovic, when I was talking about some things and we've got the defendant's hyperproduction. Lawyers for people with disabilities, for gender equality, we have the only one in Europe. Well, then, for the kids and the occupier, and now you'd be introducing a new category of counsel to protect the applicant's irregularities. But I'm surprised, let's just say why, and you often talk about it, we wouldn't have a defense attorney to do it? Why don't we have a lawyer for the unemployed? Why don't we have a defense attorney? So these are large categories of people and certain irregularities they have or experience, but are significant categories where they should have a defender. I don't think we're dealing with this problem. And I think that not only is the proposal of this law and that it is the Government and the clue that even in the third quarter, it will actually refer to the Croatian Parliament a whole and comprehensive law regarding the protection of applicants of irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76876	In the end, Mr. Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76877	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Babić, means whenever opposition and especially the Living Wall proposes some law, then you say either on the board or at the plenary session, if your law is very good, it is quite fine and then comma, but. And so that is the keyword of 3 letters “but”. It can't be about this. It can't be about that. You're not good at classification, you're not good at fluctuating, you're not good at it, you're not good at integration, it's not good at decryping, etc., you're using different professional meta-lingual terms and you're finally asking the question, are we protecting whistles or not? No, so we're still after 28 years of democratic states leaving him unprotected, and that's the whole taste of the story. You really have a bit of good faith, to protect these people, not me, not protect Branimir Bunjac or Ivan Pernar, or the Living Wall, we're not whistlers, here, we whistle unlimited as much as we want and we don't need protection, we have immunity. But these people, they need protection and you're doing them a favor, not us. And you are doing the Croatian state a favor first of all because this law actually protects the Croatian state and above all, from various harmful phenomena, above all corruption, illegality, conjecture, etc. You just don't want it, you don't want it, and you find 100 ways to play it because it's important to you who says it, not what you say. You're acting very sectarian and partylike, just like you're accusing us and we've accepted your laws. Raise your hand for them. And you haven't accepted a single amendment for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76878	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76879	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend Bunjac, in my life, when I see injustice, she's kind of crying out to make it right. I understand both whistles and my respect for each of them who want to change certain things or report the observed corrupt actions that harm any legal person, company or directly to the workers who work in companies themselves. That's one example. We can talk about a series of such, and to such people a great respect. But from experience, and you do not have that experience in executive power, we are witnessing that we have a lot of people who, for various reasons, are “whispers ” reporting certain actions and do so in very bizarre ways. So, in this comprehensive law, it is also important to keep an eye on such things. What I'm still stuck with is what you said about institutions. I have often heard it from your mouths here in the Croatian Parliament, you are very destructively talking about the institutions of the Croatian state. I know because of certain things, perhaps your personal experiences that you may not want or have respect for the institutions, but I think from this constituency level that we should all strengthen these institutions, that we should strengthen those people who are currently dealing with the making of laws, their normative actions, not belittle them. And for that reason, you understand, this bill of law by the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not been adopted, precisely because of this one normative act, because of the very form of law and not content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76880	Thank you very much. Let's move on with Mr. Ivan Pernar who will speak for the promoter for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76881	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we're here to discuss whether we're going to protect the whistles or not to protect them. Mr. Ante Babic said during the assembly debate that we are involved in crime in the Living Wall. And I want to answer him this time, for him perhaps an unexpected way. Let's start from the assumption that I am, I'm a criminal, here, that's what you wanted to hear, here, I'm telling you now, I'm a criminal. But then tell me if this law will help fight criminals, and I'm a criminal, why are you against him? Why are you against him? Then support the whistler law that Ivan Pernar and the other criminals are, and you said that criminals are dangerous in the Living Wall, to be processed. Then why refuse such a law? Why don't you encourage the other whistles that will say that Ivan Pernar was a swindler, a thief, I don't know, receiving yellow, green, red envelopes, etc. You say that, so it says, so support the whistle protection law, which is why, let's say, we're going to hit corruption, we're going to hit Ivan Pernar with this law, but no, you're refusing this law. And the question is, are you doing this to protect me? The logic of things requires that you have no interest in it. Which allows us to conclude that HDZ rejects this law in order to protect himself and his friends in the face of crime, but an alibi or defense against what the Living Wall calls him for, for crime and corruption, that is, that is, that it does not want to pass the Law on whistles, and could have long ago, and it is not, etc. You find the alibi, so you attack us. You're actually defending yourself, protecting yourself as a party to crime, which, among other things, you've been unjustly and convicted of crime, which there is clear evidence for that, etc. You defend yourself in a way that we are in the Living Wall of Crime. Is that a defense? So are we here to discuss the Living Wall or to discuss in general the Whistling Law. We're discussing the Whistling Act. And assuming that you now reject this law, and clearly you will refuse it, you claim we will bring it back later. But why didn't you bring it so far? Is this the irrelevant question I'm talking about? I think this is an important question. And that the Whistle Protection Act should be passed. It is clear which party is most involved in crime, it is clear which party was tried, as a criminal organisation and still being tried, Mr Babic. It is still being tried, but at the International Court of Justice, HDZ leadership found guilty of inciting war crimes, etc. in the Den Hague. You have been convicted by law in an international court of law, you have wrongly convicted in a domestic court, and you are still being tried. And Mr. Babic, ask yourself why, because I control the judiciary? Because the Living Wall is in power? Because my colleague Sincic is the president of the state? Or because you've really been stuck in crime, protecting crime, sabotaging lawsuits at the highest court cases, and then you're against the Whistling Act, and then theaterically, you say Mr. Pernar, you're a criminal, you're this, you're that. So what's the deal? Well, come on, okay, assuming you're honest, and I'm unfair, that's your thesis, that's your thesis, so why don't you back this bill or why you haven't brought it before. We're going back to the same thought. Comrade Babic, you are not convincing. HDZ is not convincing, HDZ has shown how it treats whistles, I repeat before and after Ankica Leka, and Ankica Lepe has lost her job only because she discovered that Ankica Tudjman, the wife of the founder of HDZ, who at the same time told her to understand the pensioners, because she herself has no directorship she had more than a million kunas in her account. And you from HDZ have passed a corrupt law that allowed Franji Tudjman to buy the villa in Pantovac. So you brought it in, the law was worth one day, two days, just so he could buy it, you were doing Lex Tudjman, so for one man. And we invite you to make a law for all whistles, to finally face corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76882	Mr. Pernar time. We have one replica from Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76883	Thank you, Chairman, here's my colleague Pernar, I'll remember one day when we held the debate together, I held the speaker, chaired by Mr. Reiner and the assembly or, circumstances were such that at the end of the parliamentary side we were brought out. So let's remember what I was talking about back then? I was at the time talking about corruption in Croatia post office and whistles that spoke about corruption in Croatia post office. Some people seem to mind, do not want to hear such topics and such news. I will also use the replica of you, so that I do not take the special now, for the promoter, to look back at some of the things that Mr Babic said, he said among other things, that it is necessary to keep an eye on malicious reports. In the very notion that the applicant is made clear that if the application is malicious, and this is determined by the Ombudsman that the rights are then lost. So that's already been worked out by this law. Another thing, why there's no such thing as a defense attorney for the blocked. You kids are one good part of life, a defender you're one good part of life, a disabled person you're one good part of life. Does HDZ want to order from your mouth that the blocked must also be part of life. For us to be blocked, it's not something you've spent your whole life in debt slavery, it's a problem that should never have arisen. And we don't need an attorney to follow and care for blocked persons, because they should never have been blocked. That's why there isn't, and that's why we don't advocate defense attorneys for the blocked. And the final thing is, the government is asking for the exact money to be predicted. We're here within the possibility of the law predicting 5 million dollars for the Attorney's Office. And like I said from the pay phone, we can't know how many people, how many rights they'll be looking for. I can't say that, you can't say that, nobody can say that. There may be 1 whistler in 2019 since the law was applied. Maybe 200 shows up, maybe all the rights are granted, maybe just one piece, so we're asking for an impact assessment of the rules that say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76884	Thank you. Now the answer to the line, excuse me, Mr. Pernar, my mistake, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76885	Dear colleague Sincic, it is the law that we have proposed the ultimate thing. Part of the criticism that HDZ represents is, in fact, 90% of them are without a basis. You explained why. And then we go back to the key question, which is, if there's something that's potentially controversial, why doesn't HDZ propose amendments. If HDZ had made the whistle-wrestle law and that the law was the protection of whistles, and that any parts of it were controversial, then we from the Living Wall would have given amendments, as we always do. But what HDZ does is very malicious and hypocritical. They systematically sabotage every initiative and every proposal that is actually well-intentioned and that comes from us, legally, the amendment, unimportant. And at the same time, we are called not to make concrete suggestions, to be destructive, to do nothing concrete, etc. So I ask the HDZ gentlemen what do you want from us? What do you want from us? You want legislative proposals and amendments, here are your legal proposals and amendments. You think they should be completed, give me the amendments, we'll accept them. But this is not about fellow Sincic, nor about amendments, nor legislative proposals, this is about a policy whose goal is to hide the truth, whose goal is to keep crime going and in fact that the current policy that is in power continues to be implemented. And you and I, and everyone else in the House who is against such HDZ policies, are portrayed as a distraction, unconstructive, etc. Because in another way, the arguments cannot be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76886	Thank you. Now Mr Branimir Bunjac will speak in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76887	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, etc. To whistlers, it aims to protect the effective reporting of irregularities and to offer adequate protection to persons who do so with the aim of raising awareness of the need to report corruption, illegality, nepotism and clienteleism, and to increase public sector responsibilities and transparency, to strengthen trust in institutions and politics in general. Unfortunately, in Croatia, an increasingly rooted attitude to do evil, alienate others' good and abuse their position is not the reason for the launch of responsibilities either by law or by moral or political. The ineffectiveness of our judicial system encourages perception that the abuses committed by the responsible in society are seen as a reflection of resourcefulness, necessity, and not immorality. The bill on whistles should help not to associate the reporting of injustice with betrayal and adultery and, in particular, to reject the attitudes that nothing can be done, that there should be no horns of bosti, that the system is incorrigible and that honesty is flawed and that an honest man is working against himself. The whistlers all over the world, and particularly in democratic society, play a big role and interestingly, this very Saturday, just this week when we talk about this law, will be International whistle-playing day. Otherwise, the day is marked in Croatia but goes completely unnoticed and it is interesting that Croatia has a whistle-dagger day and there is no whistle-whispering law. In fact, not only do we not have the protection of whistles, but we can say that in Croatia there is a persecution of whistles, an unwritten law. In fact, whistles often accuse that they are essentially eternal dissatisfactions, that they are people who cause problems, that they are not satisfied with their working status, pay, progress, or simply not feeling well among their colleagues. But the truth is completely different. The whistles are dominated by people who believe in the system, actually idealists, honest people. Or how they like to beat them, suckers. These are essentially well-intentioned people who become shocked when they notice in their workplace that irregularities occur and then feel so much pressure that they simply have to tell someone what they saw and most often say it publicly because they think it's the best way to make things right. But what they experience after that, which is primarily the reaction of their employers as well as the authorities that should protect them, destroys their trust in a whole system that they had just blindly believed because the typical reaction of management or administration is next. They do not react affirmably to the appearance of a whistler, they do not think it would be best to solve the problem before it becomes a disaster, but rather, they start to insult, demean, and attack whistles. The management of a company begins to accuse whistles of having personality disorder, of wanting to cause attention, of wanting glory, of being corrupt before he even came into a company or of being simply a troubled guy to be solved as soon as possible. The position of whistlers in the workplace gets worse overnight, companies give up their services, isolates them and transfers them to less important jobs, gives them the hardest and impossible tasks or not giving them any job. They are exposed to insults, forced to visit psychiatrists, threatened by disciplinary measures, and constantly criticised, punished, exposed to internal checks and audits. They're threatened with lawsuits if they go public. Then the investigative committees begin, hearings by colleagues who are also blackmailed by the employer to show loyalty by isolateing whistles. It's a classic mobbing, and all of this ultimately results in the departure of whistles from the workplace due to poor health caused by constant victimization. Also threatened are family members, rarely whistles receive death threats and some gods and a bullet in the forehead like Milan Levar. In any case, whistles become persecuted beasts leaving the workplace within a year because of impaired health, reduced incomes and ruined careers. You have an example in Croatia as much as you want. I'd like to say, here, we recently had a Croatian Mine Action Centre, Mr. Ivan... has reported 70 so-called demining areas that are not demining and what followed immediately after that application? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Systematization abolished his workplace. Here, it's a reward for trying to save, in fact, people's lives. So someone doesn't stop at the mine. In the Republic of Croatia not only are workers persecuted, but union commissioners who should not be fired by law. It's supposed to protect the Labour Act. And look at the example of Predrag Sekulić, Sisak refinery, the example of Dalibor Petrovic, the Croatian Railway, the example of Mr Hajdarović, the State Bank Saving Agency. Take a look at Mr. Paolo Gregorović, union commissioner of the Voice of Istria, see Mr. Marijan Babić, union commissioner of the ferry port of Split, see the case of the union commissioner Kaštelanski greenhouse, Slavka Jazva, see the case of Mr. Ante Pavić who reported salary default in Business HR. All those union commissioners in a row were fired for reporting irregularities. This means it's not about an individual case, it's about a system that purposely destroys whistles. And that's what we want to warn you about, and in fact, we want to say that this system has to be reversed by 180 degrees and that it has to be punished not by people who report irregularities, but by those people who persecute whistles. These are people who are problematic in companies and public institutions, not those who want to work fair. Of course, we have a number of cases that were public, which had never been well completed, such as the already mentioned Mrs. Ankica Lepej or Vesna Balenović, who had been fired in court, who had never been hired again, whose family members had been unemployed for years, where they were then sued by those who were essentially committing crime and then still had to pay legal costs, court costs and rarely had to sell all the property, including properties in which they lived in order to survive at all. Should we mention Mrs. Balenovic's creepy case, where doctors diagnosed cancer in the last degree, operated, took her to chemotherapy and radiation to find out she was completely healthy. Now what does Mr. Babic say? Eh, technically it can't go through. So these are the answers we get from the ruling ones. How'd it go with the cop who reported Milan Badic driving drunk? Would Dino Molnar, a police officer in Međimurje, be dead today if there was a whistler law? Probably wouldn't. How did Mrs. Jovev go in Sisak and her husband who reported the crime of Marine Mercel-Lovric? They got fired. So that's the way this society treats whistlers. Then it's perfectly normal for most whistlers to say after all that they would never repeat their applications again because among other things, their health has been severely disrupted. Many suffer from sleep disorders, anxiety, panic attacks, depression, guilt, worthlessness. They have stomach problems, nightmares, chronic fatigue, irritability, stress, lack of confidence. They all take medication in a row, and many are financially destroyed. The most they can achieve, therefore, is that these whistles in the current Croatian judiciary system are that the applications they have filed are rejected. It's the highlight of justice for them. Their applications will be rejected and then no one will pursue them further. It's no wonder. Following this, it is logical that 40% of Croatian citizens, according to official polls, would not report corruption if they knew about it. Croatian citizens believe that they would do themselves harm to report corruption, and more than 90% of Croatian citizens believe that whistles in Croatian society are completely unprotected, which means that the absolute number of Croatian citizens knows what the current state of society is. Because of the absence of this Act, so the whistle-wrestle law, it is important to note that 30% of the court proceedings are going down. So, which means trial, criminal charges, if no one dares testify in court or if we have a situation where the witness says one thing, but when he comes to court, he changes his testimony by 180 degrees and suddenly says something else. Because of the absence of the Whistling Act, the Croatian state suffers enormously, primarily the economy. What's the gray economy? How much is tax evasion? How many states does it lose? They say the same thing up to 30% of their assets because of what everyone knows, everyone sees everything, but nobody dares to testify. Starting with the wounded who are forced to get paid by hand, who do not get paid I don't know, overtime or travel expenses, all the way to large systems, what are tycoon companies, sports clubs, state-owned companies such as INE, Croatian highways, but also ministries, government and the highest state summit. We hear scary stories today. Namely, criminals buy cars for judges. Buy them houses, give them cash on their hands. How much longer do we have to listen to this without doing anything? And we had a big poll last week why young people move out? They say they're moving out because of small wages, no. They primarily emigrate because of corruption and because they think that they cannot advance in Croatia with their knowledge and education, but only on the party and political lines. That's why young people move out. Because we know that in Croatia, public tenders do not work, that before the competition is even opened, they find some 2 powerful men in the cafe, they agree in 4 eyes, who they will receive, and after that comes the competition. And in the competition goes, you know who, cousin, member of this party, or person who's someone's life partner or whatever. It is important to say that such a law, as proposed by the Living Wall, has absolutely every country in Europe including Bosnia, Kosovo and Serbia. And all those countries that have that law are making progress in the fight against corruption. And only Croatia, as we heard in the proposal's opening statement, is going back on that list. Shouldn't we be concerned and moved to finally do something about it? Why is the ruling majority so afraid of fighting corruption? What's the big deal? What measures have been taken over the past 18 months to curb corruption and can you give me at least one example of any of this, a political official accused of corruption? Well, it's not the devil, that none of them did anything illegal, and we're witnessing practically on a daily basis that there's a lot of objections. Here, time is slowly running out, something else through the replicas, I'd just like to say in the end, that this is a law for honest people, that this is a law for the heroes of our society, and for this reason we call, first, all whistlers to report with full confidence to the Living Wall and then to the MPs to support our bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76888	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76889	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned that there is no point in how much corruption has actually eaten from the RS budget, so there is one research relevant, this research... from Washington, which estimated $15.2 billion from 2001-2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their estimate that, on the basis of corruption and corruption related to high politicians during that period, was 1.5 billion annually and peaked in 2008 when the amount was 2.3 billion kuna. So that's the price of corruption, and that's why this law is important, because when corruption happens and the damage has already been done and a good law that will give people faith, that in good faith reporting corruption, they won't get themselves killed, they won't run out of work, they won't be bullied, they won't get a baseball bat on their heads, you mentioned some of the whistlers, so here, let me mention Igor Radenovic, who reported crime in the Zagreb roads in 2008 and therefore got a baseball bat, of 3 perpetrators who received 3,000 euros for it. So, his alive was practically in question for 3,000 euros. Orderers were never found, but interestingly that in this town, the mayor is the same all the time, that different processes are also being conducted against Sanader, as they are being led against Calmeta, as they are being led to the Fimi Media, as they are led against Nadan Vidosevic. So when the citizens look at it all, they wonder again, so does it make sense to report anything? So, the first step is of course, the application in good faith, but in vain and that application, if ultimately the judiciary doesn't bring the word by following a trail of money, and if that money doesn't go back to the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76890	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76891	Thank you, well-respected representative Jovanovic. It's also amazing to me that the government, I don't know, doesn't have enough money for health care, that there's not enough money for education, that there's not enough money for pensions or for demographic measures, and there's money lying on the road, and it literally needs to be picked up, and it's about just preventing corruption. So you yourself said that it was hundreds of billions of kunas, which were robbed at the time of independent Croatia, and that only that money had been returned to the budget, or that it had not been allowed to go, to be carried out, we today would have a much better picture of the economy and society in general, and we wouldn't need any additional measures. So we shouldn't need the euro, or tax reform, or pension bonuses, or special separations. So we'd have a simple, a lot of paths solved by ourselves and what they say we didn't even do or dig. So no single law, no single measure, no fight against corruption, would improve Croatian society and the economy by 10-20%. That'd be enough. But we simply have no will. We're going after this, and here I'm reading this research the other day, we're just increasing the number of millionaires, and here we have 12,000 millionaires, and I'd like to ask, who are these millionaires, who has this kind of money, so someone's getting very rich, and others don't have some basic life needs. I think the Croatian public would have the right to know who illegally acquired the money, but they will never be able to find out, so long as people who will have the protection and courage to say everything they know about illegality appear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76892	Thank you very much. No, I'm sorry, we're on replicas, Mr. Bull, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76893	Thank you very much. It's just a shame that it wasn't this law before and that this isn't a more serious approach by the government and the ruling majority under this bill of yours, and here we see that not only is there a minister on the most important subject, meaning, which should protect the people who are whistlers, there's no secretary of state. They absolutely don't care about parliament. We are still guided by the Constitution that we are a parliamentary democracy, but it is heading towards the Pharaoh administration because we see even that Plenkovic, the prime minister, accuses the opposition of problems within the majority. Here's his message today, I'd like it a lot more if it were his message and this is a convention of all conventions, I repeat, no matter what the proposal is not from MOST and I'm glad that you suggested it. I see this, above all, as a man who analyzes problems in Croatian society. Here was supposed to be the prime minister and say publicly this proposal proposed by colleagues from the Living Wall, fellow MPs from the opposition of the majority we support unanimously with certain changes. And no, look, there's no one from the government, no secretary, no assistant minister, no care. Nor do they want to discuss this in a clear and transparent way in the interest of helping these people who have so far pointed to irregularities, and they have huge damages, they and their families. This law provides for everything. That's what I said on behalf of the MOST Club, and I will support this Law with both hands, but I am not happy about the government's relationship to parliament, in this case, according to your law which is more important, I repeat, than any convention that Prime Minister Plenkovic, from which he wants to, in essence, refuse to be president of probably the European Council. Therefore, once again support with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76894	Answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76895	Thank you, well-respected Representative Bulj, for your support, and you are essentially reacting completely naturally. You know that this Law is for the benefit of Croatian citizens and Croatian states and you will normally support it, just as we will support everything that goes to the benefit of Croatian citizens. It's true to us, we're already used to our laws being ignored for months, so they're then placed as the last item of the agenda, to which no one from the ministries comes, etc. As far as we're concerned, there may be a law at 3:00 in the morning, but it's really a shame that the government doesn't, therefore, care about general and national interests. What we can see, you're right, the last two weeks the government's been dealing with by counting its own representatives. That's much more important to them. You're group A, you're group B, you're whistlers, you're not whistlers, you're gonna be on the list tomorrow, you're not gonna be, we're gonna kick you out, we're gonna leave these. That's their main interest. So, their main interest is that they deal with themselves, as we see from countless newspaper articles that belong, whose last name is mentioned in the towers and rumors, and what whistles suffer and suffer incredible torments and what is stolen from Croatia, I don't know, 30% of the budget every year, it's irrelevant to them. They just care that their salary comes every month, that it's good, that they only write their laws that have nothing to do with reality or any concrete result, that time goes by and that they have a good pension today and tomorrow. People who treat this high house like this actually show that they are not worthy to be there at all, just as they are not worthy to be in the ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76896	Thank you, too. Last line. Mr. Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76897	Thank you, Chairman. Comrade Bunjac, you've detected very well. At the end of the poll, the poll said, and we can hear it by talking to citizens on the street or with fellow citizens anywhere else, so the problem is the biggest, of course, after unemployment and corruption, what is not solved. And it's not so much a problem that right now it's a big corruption, but it's been such corruption for the last 20 or 30 years. So she's not getting rid of it. There is no trend to repair, there is a trend here we are going to solve it, there are laws, there are people, there is money, all we need, that's our top priority, so that the prime minister can call, let's say, one thematic session or anything, they can change the rules of procedure as he wants and say, here, Croatian citizens, from now on zero tolerance rates to corruption, total fight against corruption. We're going to do whatever it takes to reduce these 94% to 4% over 10 years. At least 10% a year, if we had a trend, a step-by-step job, that it would get better every year. No, there's no hope. So, the government doesn't give us any hope of getting better, or sending a message at all, we want it to get better. Then what does he want? He wants the condition to remain as it is, to be a state of hopelessness, depression, apathy, they would say sociologists, anomalies, and all the other phenomena that have hit us. If only there was hope, if there was light at the end of the tunnel, many would have stayed here and fought yet, they wouldn't have gone so lightly. The government is not even able to give that hope. It is not at all able to inspire Croatian citizens why to stay here, spend your life here. It's the first miss. The first failure that we are unable to bring these citizens and all of us to a better tomorrow, we are constantly spinning around in circles for 20-30 years, and we are not solving problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76898	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76899	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Sincic, I'm surprised too, here we see that in the last year HDZ has lost 1/5 of its voters. We offer them a law which, if they had done and accepted, would certainly have increased their rating. But they are so willing to deal with themselves that they will go to self-destruction, as you already went away in 2016 and they will do it again because they simply do not understand Croatian reality, nor do they care at all. Instead of solving the problems of the citizens, they prefer who is on which list and who draws up the same list. To resolve the issue of corruption, to address the issue of favoration, nepotism and clienteleism, young people would simply gain confidence, young people who have ideals, who have dreams, would gain confidence in their country. No more, then we would know that we should learn, that we should work, that we should be honest and that this can be progressed in society. And that's not how it progresses with us, with young people who have even high schools having to work as waiters, they have to work as sellers, they have to work as maids, etc. which is really very sad, while on the other hand people who buy diplomas or don't have them at all, can become directors, can become directors, can deal with professions that don't have a slight relationship, as I don't know, we have a director of the Croatian Forests who never dealt with forestry, etc. And a very bad message is being sent. You simply, today if you apply for a public tender, you really need to be extremely naive and believe that in a public tender you can get any job or purchase or something like that. It is known in which way it is dealt with, the only thing that is not clear, when citizens will finally have their knowledge connected to concrete works and will once and for all send those who have brought the state into such a difficult state into the tomb of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76900	Thank you for the sixth time. We'll be working till 7:00, wherever we stop, we stop. At 1900 hours we interrupt... It's more about you, not about me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76901	My colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club will support this legislative proposal because we believe that already in the introduction, the applicant listed 4 reasons that we consider crucial why this law should be supported. Therefore, there is no full and comprehensive Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity, whistles, second, very high level of real corruption in Croatia, third necessity of official change of attitude towards the applicant of irregularities, especially for all applicants and the effectiveness of the fight against labour irregularities, in particular corruption, is unimaginable without the help of persons from the institutions in which these irregularities take place. He cited the proposer of this law and thus pointed to a lot of significant problems as to why we are taking up the fight against corruption. In addition, some independent bodies who have discussed this topic have also concluded, so in 2016 a round table was held: “A conference on the protection of whistles in Southeast Europe” organized by the Centre for Peace Studies, the House of Human Rights and GONG, where it is said that Croatia should adopt the Law on the Protection of whistles because we do not have this law, and the existing model of whistle protection is extremely old-fashioned and comes down to judicial protection, so these people are left to themselves. Also, it has been said that in Croatia the provisions on the protection of whistles have been scattered in several laws, and the only protection is to launch a judicial procedure for the retaliatory treatment they have suffered in the workplace, thus the whistles are left to themselves. It is an interesting fact, also mentioned on this Round Table, which we have heard today from the promoters, that in our neighbourhood, there is a bill on the protection of whistles in several countries, and so there is Bosnia, Kosovo, Albania, as opposed to Croatia that does not. What we can all agree is that after Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia has turned back on the fight against corruption. Before we entered, we had to resolve a number of chapters and one of them was the judiciary and then we introduced some order on issues such as financing political parties, preventing conflicts of interest, the right to access information. All these issues were open to the EU's request and there was never a sincere desire in the ruling ones, it was the HDZ at that time, to bring the fight against corruption to a level that would not pose a threat to Croatian society as a whole. Anti-corruption policies are not well-developed, potential whistles risk losing their jobs, isolation at work, isolation in the community. So the system is not on their side. We've thought of it many times today, so it's worth one more time, Mrs. Ankica Lepej, the first true Croatian whistle. What is important, and journalists are also fighting for the greatest protection of whistles for the simple reason that whistles are important to the media because they provide information of public interest that can ensure the disclosure of various corruption affairs. We find it interesting that neighbouring Bosnia, which adopted the Law on the Protection of whistles in 2014, has significantly increased its effectiveness in the fight against corruption. So there's no dilemma that the law is necessary. What does the Government tell us in its statement? If we take this text, as colleagues have said, where they have at least tried on page 8 and given their opinion, the first two pages are perfectly written and missing, in fact the surplus is just one word. So, the government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this proposal, so this is not a surplus. If they had lost that "no" I think they would have done a good job. There are many reasons why this law should be supported, so Croatia is 57th in 2017 according to the corruption perception index in the corrupt countries of the world. Corruption is a cancer in Croatia, disrupting fundamental social values, causing a loss of public confidence in state authorities, which is immediately negatively reflected in the economic development of society. This year, again, the second year in a row, the negative finding of Transparency International, which places Croatia in a circle of corrupt countries, shows that the current HDZ, the CNS government is not perceived as ready and capable of fighting corruption, and that, in fact, we heard it today and here, based on 4 judicial corners made by Bandic, Saucha, Glavas and Vrdoljak and keep it together only in a way to ensure their survival in their battle with the judiciary where they are responsible for a whole series of different activities that we cannot safely consider ethical. Therefore HDZ and HNS show by word and work why in Croatia we constantly have a loss of credibility, integrity, politics and politicians. Croatia is faced with a continuous series of affairs stemming from non-transparent business deals, favoring appointments by political HDZ-HNS line, relatives, brothers, godfathers who are named and even that information is kept secret after a certain session of the government. In addition, independent institutions such as the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, the Committee on Ethics in Science are exposed to the fierce criticism of the ruling HDZ and so on by the presidents of the Republic of Croatia, which is why they have been systematically attacked, often weakened through the shift of free-thinking and independent leaders, and then named politically appointed similar leaders. If Croatia wants to advance and achieve an average index of perception of corruption such as Slovenia. which has 61 points, must increase transparency, allow for the supervision of independent bodies and the public, must ensure that people in good faith can report corruption, so they must have such a law. Corruption is linked to the reduction of civil society and media freedom. Transparency, for example, examined the relationship between the level of corruption and the freedom of civil society organisation in the work and the impact on public policy, and the analysis showed that most countries with low results in civil freedoms are generally high, which means a negative result in the area of corruption. The campaign of indignity, harassment, lawsuits and bureaucratic burdens are tools that are individual to the conflict of interest and corruption of the burdened government, including those of us who are serving to silence all those who are instigating the fight against corruption, civil society and the media. Several times today we mentioned a Euro barometer that is truly devastating, so 94% of respondents in Croatia hold that corruption in the country is widespread, 4% would report corruption if it were spotted. 59% think corruption is present in everyday life. The most corrupt in Croatia are respondents to political parties, politicians at national, regional and local level, courts, police and customs, all over 50%. How, then, do citizens in good faith report corruption? When asked if you would report corruption again, I must say 95% of Croats respond negatively. Surely one reason and a lack of protection for people who report corruption in good faith. I could still count it, but what I said is enough evidence that really young people are leaving Croatia, first of all because they don't see a future in a country where they bloom corruption where the political HDZ-HNS government, which is currently in Croatia, is not offering hope that they really value competence but only political similarity. A small step in the fight against corruption would be to pass this law that we support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76902	Thank you very much. One replica, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76903	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic, for your presentation and especially for the support you said. So let's say we have an example that's very interesting how the current government works. So we were witnesses that certain bosses in Croatia have the right to introduce bonuses as money, we saw that they can maneuver so-called. The transfer prices for tax evasion, so let's say I don't know when a product is driven from Croatia to Bosnia have one price, when it's driven from Bosnia to Croatia there's another price, so they can set the prices where they fit, how they should get subsidies, incentives in any case were big tax evasion, there was a big money laundering, which was the most interesting money laundering that went partly through the banks and then when the one who cooked everything out of the country, of course with the government's permission, then the government who takes over the company temporarily, which works, brings in a manager who first day when he assumes its duty to sign a contract with itself, with its company where he worked until yesterday and pays itself 250000 kuna every week. And his associates, so-called. It pays the consultants 300 million kuna in one year. In any orderly country of the world, this would be marked as a classic case of corruption and in court would have been proven by law long ago. It means pure as tears. And in Croatia what happened? Nothing. After pressuring the manager, he continues to walk freely to Croatia, as did those who brought the company into mourning yesterday and continue to pay everything with those consultants. So Croatia passed a law that expires in exactly three weeks, and in which all those problems that brought Agrokor into such a difficult situation did not even begin, let alone solve, much more took the time to add to the robbery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76904	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, here you have mentioned a law which is certainly one of the reasons why corruption is thought to be booming in Croatia. So we don't even know today, and we actually know who wrote lex Agrokor, and that's how we see how much we're trying on a vital issue of Croatian interest to benefit from individual lobbys. So in Croatia, corruption is institutionalized and without one such law, we will hardly be able to ensure greater transparency because it is precisely this transparency that guarantees that conflict of interest and then corruption will be prevented. Unfortunately, not only do Croatian citizens not see the meaning of fighting corruption, so they say they would not even report corruption, but the institutionalised corruption in local self-government units even to a certain level and guarantees of re-election of individual leaders as demonstrated in their work by Vuk Vukovic's doctorate at Oxford where exactly by measuring turnout to elections, corruption has shown that individual local leaders are corrupting the environment in which they live are re-elected. And in fact, in the last local elections, we had leaders who were in prison for corruption, who were again trusted by citizens, which is certainly an additional, additional concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76906	Thank you. Mr. Gordan Maras, he's gone. He's losing his right. Individual debate Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76907	Here I have also come forward for an individual debate, given that I am a member and also the chairman of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, and I have no opportunity to support this legislative proposal on the one hand. I am obliged to say that, I was the chairman of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy from 2007 to 2011, and then we had one thematic session, a large thematic session dedicated to just protecting whistles. And the conclusion of that session was that this legislative framework we have is enough to protect whistles. However, we saw everything that happened afterwards showed that we were wrong. In 2014, a resolution adopted by the Council of Europe, in its recommendation to protect whistles, stressed that any person who reports or publishes information about a breach of public interest, i.e. the danger of injury, which is related to his work, is considered to be a public or private sector. And in these recommendations of the Council of Europe of 2014 it is said that there is no special law in Croatia on the protection of whistles, but this area is regulated through the provisions of certain laws such as the Criminal Law, the Law on Civil Servants, the Labour Act, the Law on Trade. However, despite existing legal solutions, the cases recorded have shown that whistles continue to face the problem of returning to a regular working relationship, and that, with existing legal protection, further strengthen the legislative framework, all with a view to further protecting whistles and generally raising the level of transparency of ethics and integrity in the whole society. In addition to whistles, it is necessary to further protect journalists, especially those involved in investigative journalism, and human rights fighters who are being persecuted for their public action. It is therefore also clear in the action plan which goes with the Anti-Corruption Strategy that a new Law on the Protection of whistles will be adopted. These are measures 62 and 63 where it is noted that the deadline for the adoption of those measures is the third quarter of this year. But here I am from this pay phone, since the Government refuses to support the law presented today, that these deadlines are speeding up and that within the shortest possible time, we get a legislative proposal showing genuine faith, a genuine willingness to fight corruption more effectively in Croatia, given that in our latest report, the European Commission has made it clear in its lack of reforms that have not been implemented that we have slowed down in the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Strategy and that this is one of the priorities that the Government, which is currently in power, must show that it truly wants to fight corruption in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76908	Thank you very much. Mr. Crescent. Miro Bulj, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists final.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76909	My fellow Members and colleagues, I am sorry that most of the time and even the disappointment of most of the time here we do not have a representative of the government who for no reason are the long-awaited law given by the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA, that none of the representatives of the Government speak of what direction this Government is heading. I am sorry that the empty benches of the assembly are when we talk about this law, but I also expect that in voting and calling on all MPs that this is a theme of all themes, the protection of people whistles, to be unanimous there and to send a message to those who think they are Pharaohs and have come out of this Parliament, to give them a strong message and to accept this proposal that contains everything that needs to be contained. Of course the government is correct then we'd go to another reading. In this law waiting years for people who were whistlers reporting irregularities, we have no alternative to this law. It is not important here that the Croatian government wants itself as some point whether it is proposed by the club of representatives or by them or by the government itself, but the fact is that this is not how it relates to Parliament by the government. However, there is a much more important time now in the government to count the situation between themselves and to see which convention the triba discuss, in which way who will vote, who will not count. And the fact that such a relationship with this law speaks about the state of the government of the Republic of Croatia, because at this point, we haven't had anyone in front of the government for a long time. Because I repeat, we're talking about one of the biggest problems, essentially one of the most important laws for protecting people who have pointed out and reported irregularities and where it's solved, is their status, where the attorney-general would be theirs, and in the future the state would certainly save a lot of money. And once again, if it had happened in a number of affairs like bank bonds that are uncovered, pardon the note, if someone in the CNB had the strength to say no then, I wouldn't have 10 billion Kuna Todorovic then without the cover of 10 billion kuna funds. They silenced brave men, brave men. Triba gives them a confession, and that's the law. He is in the future, he is in perception creating stability of the Republic of Croatia and demographic recovery is one of the biggest causes as we all said he is, meaning mistrust in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. It's corruption and this law is settled. But the government was obvious, so literally almost positive, literally in the end she said: I do not accept. I don't accept it because they suggested it's a club that the prime minister doesn't like, so it would be the opposite, but it's disappointing to us parliamentary deputies. Here I see that only two MPs from most ruling, here if you can help your colleagues at tonight's meetings, if you discuss the convention, say that today was a very important law that would solve a number of problems of Croatian society, which would give hope to a young man to stay in Croatia, which is essentially the Law on the Protection of People who had the courage to report irregularities, i.e. The whistles and they, since their simple behavior is unserious, and that would be best to order meaning to the head of your man, means to the prime minister, that it's a lot of counting, that it's more correct and fair to go to elections than to deal with peripheral matters, rather than to do things important. This has no ideology, me and my colleague Jovanovic do not have to agree ideologically, secularly, about which we can "blood", about these things we will agree on all, irrelevantly, HDZ, SDP, Living Wall. And I don't see a problem at all, which is why the unserious government has approached this bill. I'm sorry, I don't know if anyone's looking at this or whether it's being transmitted at all, maybe it's forbidden to transmit and maybe it's censorship, to look at, there's no one from the government, meaning of 1,000 government officials, assistant ministers, prime ministers, deputy ministers, there's no one. It's a shame. On behalf of the MOST Club, we will once again support this weaponry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76910	Thank you. Nobody from the government, eight MPs. That's the balance of tonight, 5 from the opposition, 2 from the party in power in absolute numbers. 7 there and 1 here. And Mr. Bunt, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76911	Thank you. Yes, thank you, Mr. Bull. Yes, Croatia also has 240 000 civil servants and no one has come to hear about the whistle-whispers Act. We were supposed to send the Ustasha and Partisans bill here. If we had sent that bill, then all 151 MPs and 20 ministers would have come and they'd all have something to say. That's, that's what we should've discussed. So who had a hat, whose grandfather was where, who was left, the right wing of the UDBA, then it would have been discussed, I'm sure the debate would have lasted until morning. However, when we discuss laws, especially as proposed by the Living Wall, no one is worthy of coming, of course. And that shows that in fact, the ruling majority is the one that is destructive. They're destructive, they're accusing us of being destructive, and look how they are, they don't even want to listen, let alone argue. And now I would ask, since there are two HDZ deputies here and one minority member who supports them, do we always vote against HDZ law in the Living Wall? No, I don't. We supported the I don't know, the Excise Act, the Vehicles Act, we also supported the Minimum Payment Act, and we didn't mind that you wrote it. And why is that? Because he went for the benefit of the citizens. Did we support the SDP Children's Compensation Act and a pension allowance? We did. Do we agree with them in everything? We disagree. But we know the law is in favour of the citizens and we support it. It's a constructive approach. This is an approach when national interests are more important than party interests, and unfortunately we have a party in power today that thinks their party is equal to Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76912	Thank you. Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76913	He's a friend of yours. If the topic of Ustashas and Partisans were of 151, there would be 130 present. Surely, of all the proposals of the opposition and those who come, come in this time, and that's one of the problems, because we're also aware of the public, I don't even know if they're carrying anything or not? I'm not at all, is this censorship, maybe this is forbidden. But the pure pro form I can say here, we gave two laws and I really expect that to be shared, our colleagues from HDZ, there are still, I expect that they will really be this law that should have been passed long ago, that they will pass on to their colleagues in the club and that they will unanimously support this, because there is no reason not to support it. I didn't hear him literally, except on a personal level... But one reason I haven't heard, of all the facts we've brought forward. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, you mentioned the child's allowance he gave to amend the Children's Compensation Act, he gave the SDP, that we would support. 600 million kunas more single for children, it's a demographic measure. ... Of course, we don't have to agree on some topics that should be peripheral, but no, the conventions are peripheral, does someone have to come to Brussels, and now how, in the president of this Council, another mandate will work for the prime minister, but then, as Dubravka Suica said, only then will this President of the European Council be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I believe that the Croatian people will still get all this information that's being said here in Parliament where we were elected, the empty benches tell us everything. You mentioned the number of officers, it's not your lowest fault now, but surely in the government we have 20 ministries, cabinets, secretaries, assistants so that no one could come, it's really an indicator, and about a very important problem, problem number one in the state in all the polls. And that's why this proposal of yours is good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76914	Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76915	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, I dropped a picture from 2014, so Papa Franjo spoke to the Italian Parliament in front of 500 parliamentarians. And he told them that party interests and internal struggles lead to a slip in Parliament's corruption, and that is a great message that would be very welcome to our colleagues from the current HDZ-HNS majority, as he said in the end: "Anyone can make mistakes and sin can be forgiven, but corruption cannot be forgiven. It must be cured."One of these methods of treatment was today this law, and as I said, the citizens of Croatia should have some precedent, something that has never happened before, that they too begin to think differently. This precedent would have been if the ruling HDZ had said the fall, let's now show that corruption has no party colour, let's go with this proposal that we do not fully agree on in the content work, together with colleagues from the Living Wall and the SNAGA to make a legal proposal that will support the unanimity of the entire Assembly and show that corruption has rang in Croatia, they have not done so, so we cannot believe their sincere intentions to oppose corruption because corruption is unfortunately founded in the very essence of the HDZ and the CNS, it seems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76916	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76917	Thank you very much. My colleague Jovanovic, I agree with the meaning of the words of Pope Franje are addressed to all politicians here and HDZ, I believe that these words that you have sent will ring the bell in the ears of HDZ representatives and that most of them will probably be represented by a minority... This law, this message by Pope Francis, is literally a message for all of us, that political interests of political parties, ideological, secular and any other must not encourage corruption. [[- Intruder Radin, you don't understand.]] This behaviour of the ruling at this time encourages corruption because this is a law that is proposed in the interest of the protection of the people who pointed out and who will point to corruption and that will bring multiple good things for Croatia. So the mistrust of young people will be reduced, so it will remain in Croatia, it is one of the key moments, easy not so much indifference as the mistrust, and I believe that you MPs from most of them will tell your esteemed vice presidents, the message of Pope Franje quoted by counterpart Jovanovic, also that colleagues from the HDZ message from Pope Franje is likely to quote, literally, a clear and short message that a lot of party listeners, rather than working in the interests of political parties, should work in the interests of the people, and this law is from the Live Wall Club and SNAGA in the interests of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76918	Mr. Bulj, I agree with everything you said, but I repeat once again, you can't tell me when I'm sitting here, but you have to wait for me to sit there and then you can say whatever you want and I'll answer you because I can't answer you from here, neither Franciscan nor Jesuit and I don't know, worldly. I can't answer you at all. So you're ahead and I don't like you being ahead, you understand me? ... It is, to the advantage of not being able to answer you. [[I don't understand.]] Let's move on, let's move on, as some have already said in the past. Ivan Vilibor Sincic will speak on behalf of the promoter. It's not me, it's an institution thing, Mr. Bull, it's like that. And I'll get there, we'll pollemize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76919	Thank you, Chairman. Here is the final on behalf of the Live Wall Club and the SNAGA on the Law on Reporters of Irregularity, or on the Whistling Law. I would just like to say before I go to the closing statement, so Article 15 of our proposal clearly defines what is a malicious application, there are as many as 4 paragraphs, among other things in paragraph 3 is the malice of the application established by the Ombudsman on the basis of the arguments he has collected in the examination procedure and other matters. So, this concept is elaborated, I call on the government to send these 118 articles to another reading, there are some minor technical shortcomings that are very easy to solve, I've already shown that a good part is totally unfounded, so we're talking about 2019, that since 2019 the law would come into effect although I don't mind going right now, we can make a rebalancing but the basic proposal is 2019, just because we don't talk here we can't put a rebalance on it so that it's the reason why they're refusing the law but no, as they say in their explanation, we can't accept the law because in 2018 we didn't predict anything about money, so we didn't ask, so they say something like they haven't read a number of other things. In addition, I would like to say that it is time for the googoth valleys passed by by by whistles and their families, some of them unfortunately deceased, one's struggle has been going on for decades, it is time to reverse the fight against corruption in society and I have already shown statistically that from about 1.2% to 40% would increase the number of applications and processing, this shows experience from other countries. It is very important and read this part of the report, let's say Mr Plenkovic should be interested, he deeply appreciates the European Commission, I do not, and says on his 12-page report, quote: "There is no law in Croatia to protect whistles, but the protection of whistles in the public and private sectors is covered by a number of different legislative acts, but the existing legal and institutional framework does not seem to be suitable for the full protection of whistles." The second time a representative of workers in the supervision of the body of the Immunological Institute in Zagreb, on the second occasion of the report and a member of the working council, this is about Sladoljev, suspended from work and banned from entering the office rooms after complaining of insufficient transparency in the decision-making process regarding the purchase of swine flu vaccines. Otherwise, the commission found, among other things, that members were not invited to a meeting that violates the Company Act and other laws. Furthermore, it appears so that in this respect it is not working enough in the manner of consciousness according to the results of the UN study of... more than half of Croatian citizens think that people who have reported corruption cases will probably regret it, and such a report will not produce constructive results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it means nothing to him, the living wall that he wants to destroy, the European Commission may mean something to him, but of course it doesn't mean anything to him when he has to do something concrete, but only when it suits him, then he calls on Europe and we have to do it for Europe and other things. I call on another government either to accept the law in this form or to give the law into another reading, to sit together in the interest of whistles, in the interest of Croatian citizens, in the interest of fighting corruption and to work out a few shortcomings that are here, so there is reading, first, second, and even third. If they don't want to, and unfortunately I don't expect them to, then at least in their proposal, which I hope, we won't wait for 2021 when Plenkovic is no longer in some longest scenario, but that he will actually be this year. To invite real whistles, because I didn't see them here on the list that they'd been made to call them, to tell them what they'd been through in their lives, where they'd been broken up in places to protect them. Because a lot more knows the one who's been through it, to whom it may be something that has marked life the most, than someone who thinks politics out of a warm room. You certainly include these people, at the end of the day when we protect whistles, there will be, of course, a judiciary that will have to prosecute crime. Mr. Dario Jurican in his film Boss and the other piece dealing with Kutlom, research came up with information that during Mr. Seks, therefore Seks played a major role there, there was an installation of 1700 to 2000 people in the Croatian judiciary. We know what clientelism is, we know what's only dark in the '90s, dark in the sense that there was no internet developed, the '90s were happening in Croatia, and today we suffer the consequences of it. Well, there will also be other initiatives and laws by the Living Wall, our fight against corruption, against systemic corruption, in particular political honesty, it is well-intentioned, we do not even ask for any merit, let the government take this law, write down that the government made, that Plenkovic himself wrote this law in the late hours of the night, let him sign it, let him accept it. The living wall will never say that we and one letter have written here, just let the situation begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76920	Thank you, too. You have one single replica from Mr. Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76921	Thank you very much, Reverend Sincic. So the key question is, what is the problem of corruption in society? Corruption is such a negative phenomenon that it is capable of destroying entire countries. And not once did countries fail, or even entire empires for corruption. Because when corruption occurs and it expands, there is a negative selection in society. And then people, honest people, honest people, realize that the same rules don't apply to everyone. That most citizens are subject to one rule and that other rules apply to a small privileged group. And when people see it, they lose love for their country and are no longer willing to sacrifice themselves. Not only are they not willing to sacrifice themselves, but they are not willing to live in such a country. And that's why they confirmed these polls that were published last week by several independent agencies and researchers of public change, that that's why young people move out. And how sad it is when a young man who is only at the beginning of life, who may not even have a year's work experience, wants to leave the country where he was born, in which he grew up, and in which he gained his education. That's why this problem is really very difficult and I don't understand it, and I can't figure out in any way why the ruling majority is against this law, including the chairman's own session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76922	Including who? What did you say, including who? ... Including me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First of all, if you and I understand each other, you don't know how I'm going to vote, secondly, I'm telling you a reminder that you've polluted with the chairman and don't laugh. ... Don't laugh. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Sincic. Don't laugh. Mr. Sincic. You like, like, you like to make plays, but you won't see it from me. Here you go, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76923	Thank you, Chairman. Now, after this debate, I'm really sorry there are no government representatives. Not only did the prime minister not take the initiative and lead Croatian citizens to fight corruption in every way possible, and he has all the tools, he has most of them, he had the right before, he has the state budget, 4 times 130 billion kuna, plus extra budget funds, plus there's a local state that he can influence, there's a cadre, there's 230 and how many thousands of people, civil servants, there's media space, on national television, on private television, but no, it's not a priority, he doesn't think it matters. Here is the European Commission that loves so much and where it may be seen in the future, it cannot encourage it to bring citizens against this greatest, far-reaching problem of our society. Not that there is not only him, there is no minister who is listed here as proposing, nor any of the other promoters of the State Secretary, it is once again a degradation of us as representatives, again a message is being sent, whatever you discuss here is irrelevant anyway, we will vote ours, it is again the Croatian Assembly on a card machine, the law goes inside, it comes out voted out, and the mechanism that is inside, who asks, who has time for it, is irrelevant. We, I repeat, do not agree to such a relationship with the MPs. Corruption has many negative consequences. It collects public services, destroys people's trust in each other, paves the way for more expensive public services, so there's a whole series of anomalies. On the other hand, in a society where there's not a lot of corruption, institutions are strong, they work, things work out quickly, they're efficient, and that's something that we need to strive for, and I call once again on everything to send this bill to another reading. And let's do it together. [[Intruder Radin: time.]] [[Intruder Radin: time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76924	I'm closing the debate. That's what they'll vote on when the conditions are met. Tomorrow, on Wednesday 21 March 2018, the Declaration on Amendments, of course, continues at 9.30 p.m., the Declaration on Amendments to the Final Proposal for the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, of course after the break. Here you go. Good night. Session interrupted at 18.27 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-20-0.u76925	Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, first reading of P.Z. The number 260 is proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 36 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Today we first go with the Declaration on Amendments to the Final Proposal of the Rules of Procedure on Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. But before that, the morning is break-free, respected counterpart Glasovic. Here you go.
