ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87890	Dear President of the Parliament. I would ask for a break on behalf of the Most Club to warn about what is happening in the representative body and Croatian and European citizens. So at this point in the European Parliament, we are discussing copyright law and freedom of speech. And we want to stress and therefore we are looking for a break, we want to stress that the EU is based on freedom. Today there are representatives and censorships of the Internet... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87891	Comrade Petrov, I shut you down and you can't be heard. ... You get a warning from your colleague Petrov because you're violating the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87892	Article 248 of the President-in-Office says you have the opportunity to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87893	Comrade Petrov, please let me explain to you why I consider you in violation of the Rules of Procedure. So Article 3. ‘The meeting shall be set out in this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club of Representatives on the point of establishment of the session agenda’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87894	I can tell you something, Mr. President, I understand why you don't want to talk about social networks because you said that this government is the main problem of the social network.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87895	Comrade Petrov, I'm giving you your first warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87896	... /The speaker has been disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87897	You received a warning from a colleague of Petrov's. One more warning, and I'm gonna have to shut you out of the debate. ... All right, all right, all right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've done your play, it's not right because the Rules of Procedure don't predict it, and I'm asking you not to do it. You have the possibility of a press conference, you have the possibility of making statements, there's a whole series of ways to say what you think about it, there's no one can take that away from you, and I'm going to be the first one to advocate that you can speak, but in this assembly there's order, there are rules, there are Rules and there's Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you all to stick to it And I'm against censorship yes. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, Second Reading, P.Z. number 337. [[Intruder Bull: Against censorship.]] The first item is the agenda, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. I would ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us we have respected Margareta Majeric's State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87898	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Today's Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law and the solutions proposed to the final proposal there is no difference. The final draft of the law changes the incomecensus. Total income achieved in the previous calendar year per household member per month as a condition for the right to pay for children in such a way that from the current 50% budget base rises to 70% of the budget base, thereby expecting an increase in the number of child benefits of up to 50% and 150,000 new potential users, respectively. At the same time, a range of potential users of the most attractive 500 kuna supplement will be expanded, which will be generated by children's extras so that they can be obtained for the third and fourth children. In addition, the proposed draft bill amends the provisions of the age-limit for the achievement of the right to an allowance for a child who attends high school in a way that allows the use of extras for those children of high school students whose secondary education programmes last for five years and thus does not exclude children who attend five-year school programmes. Furthermore, the law allows the right to pay for children to be paid from the day of birth and from the date of application for a child's allowance as prescribed by the applicable law. In view of the current rights of application of the proposed provisions of this law, it has been estimated that additional financial resources amounting to 151 million kuna in 2018 for the application of this law from 1 July 2018 will amount to around 361 million and 680 thousand kuna in 2019 and around 332 million 640 thousand kuna in 2020. Looking at the wide scope of the remarks raised in the Croatian Parliament, and also considering the need to take urgent action to create favourable financial conditions for the family and to amend and supplement the Law on Extra for Children from 1 July 2018, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children, which is now under discussion in the Croatian Parliament, was drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87899	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. He's the first to work, fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87900	Thank you very much. I don't know if you've appointed a new, key person in the ministry who's gone with the reason that all these measures you're giving, then the Secretary of State told the public that this is one folklore. Did you find another secretary? When are you going to name someone else? And that the most important problem in the Republic of Croatia is solved, and these are demographic measures, seriously, systematically, because we need to know that two-thirds of Croatia is empty. We've offered our program, you can come, we can give it to you, the remains movement, where we have, with demographic measures, numerous other measures, energy, entrepreneurship, justice. So if you see, that's what we've made, if you see the possibility that it can help you, not just you, but the entire Croatian people to give it to you to take advantage of it. No more folklore like your secretary said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87901	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87902	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Bull. In fact, this is only one in a series of measures implemented by the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia as a whole with all other ministries. The programme of demographic measures is aimed at the most productive policy, tax measures, employment measures and housing measures. Today we are talking about expanding the circle of use of child's allowance, as of 1 July 2018, so within ten days we will have 150 000 potential new users of child's allowance, but not only that, but also the most important addition, among other things, that the child's allowance will be used from the moment of birth, and not from the moment of submission of applications, and definitely not folklore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87903	Second replica, dear colleague of the Grmoi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87904	Thank you. What you've highlighted here in your presentation, you're talking about an explanation that the aim of the law is to promote a policy of opportunity, and you're limiting income per household member to 2328 kuna and for children who are the third or fourth child in the family, instead of being a universal right. That says what your measures are and that's all what my colleague Bulj said about you being abandoned by the only demographic in the ministry. It is unfortunate that the Government is not doing anything about it, although everyone is talking about it, here is what fellow Bulj mentioned, because we are the only political option that offers concrete measures that praise and demographics, but also with much higher instances coming praise, but you do not want to apply any of it. That's what's sad, and you don't want to offer some of your own measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87905	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87906	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative Grmoja, this is the government, after 17 years, for the first time in a parliamentary debate to amend and supplement the Children's Compensation Act, which extends the circle of children's allowance users and is projected for 6 months this year to 151 million kuna in the budget, for 2019 320 million kuna and for 2020 330 million kuna for children's extras. So now, this year 291,000 children use child's allowance, the increase is 50%. From 1 July 50% more users. 150 000 more children will have the right to use children's allowance in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87907	Third replica of respected colleague Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87908	.../Conversation disabled./... I would just like to say that in this legislative proposal you say 17 years long, I would like to say only one thing and 20 new employees in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, whose cost over 3 years will be 5.7 million kuna per projection. You also have 220,000 kuna for material costs, 770,000 kuna for their salaries in 2018, and later on, I don't know for what material costs in the 21st century when we have e services today, you can develop them from the priority II of the Ministry of Regional Development, you have 105 million euros there, you have in the Ministry of Administration the same development of digital services, you have portal e citizens, why not digitize but equip HZMO with new employees, new equipment, probably denser feathers that can print endless solutions of 200 kuna? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87909	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87910	In any case, once again, I would like to point out the particular importance of this amendment measure and the addition of allowances for children who are one of the most promising measures proposed by our ministry, and I think that we are all agreed that it is very important that, in terms of demographic renewal of Croatia, but also to address the problem of risk, from poverty and social exclusion of children and families to the Republic of Croatia, and it is particularly important that, just after the vote in the Croatian Parliament, from July 50%, more people, more children will be entitled to child allowances for which budget funds are provided, as stated 151 million kuna in this year and for the following year and 2020.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87911	Let's move on, dear colleague of Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87912	Thank you. I don't know what language we should speak to you to hear us, that it is clear that in Croatia and 300,000 children live in poverty, that every fifth household has members of families who are hungry to go to sleep. And then you tell us that for those families where 534 per household member is 300 kuna enough? So a child's allowance can't be a transfer or social aid. Children's allowance should be the right of every child, every child, the right to provide sport activity that costs 200 kuna, a warm meal that should be free of charge for all poor children, for all children who have to pay 70 kuna to get rid of it, but not to talk about different parts of Croatia where some children have the right to all free school, free books and we in some of the poorest parts can't really make it possible for children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87913	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87914	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so I believe that we understand each other and I especially believe that the users of the new 150 thousand potential users of children who will have and will exercise the right to a child's allowance will understand very well. The government of the Republic of Croatia, in addition to the child's allowance and our ministry, pays a number of other social benefits, guaranteed minimum compensation, one-time compensation, announces and schedules from the European Aid Fund for the most needed to provide school food for all children at risk of poverty and who cannot provide a meal in schools. We also call a series of competitions from the European Social Fund where we have also opened a competition for kindergartens, for a more coherent life where the business and family opportunities of parents can be coordinated. So as I pointed out, this is only one in a series of the most innovative measures implemented by our ministry and only one in a series of demographic measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87915	Thank you. Next up, dear colleague Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87916	Thank you very much, Mr. President, so the truth works, and I believe that the state hears what we're saying well, but obviously you can't hear what the government is saying in public space and what it is doing, we understand, can't solve a whole series of problems in a year, especially about the problem of demographics. From demographic measures, I'm going to do it again. What is being implemented are the measures of the most innovative policy, the financial support has been increased from 2300 to 4000 kuna. Extra for the kids, that's what we're talking about 50 to 70% today. Birth benefits for unemployed mothers from 1600 to 2300 kuna per month. Improving material conditions in kindergartens, extended working hours of kindergarten. Afterwards, measures to be taken through the "Wish" programme for all those who can find their place on the labour market and want to. Scientific centres of excellence, subsidized housing credits for young people Subsidised housing loans for young and tax measures [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] That's what we're talking about, and that's a whole series of demographic measures. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Glavak, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87917	Thank you. Please stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87918	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, the government is aware of this, and from the very beginning it began to increase 50% from 2663 kuna to 3990 kuna and to increase compensation for unemployed parents from 1600 kuna to 2300 kuna from the very beginning. I would also point out here a series of measures that we are implementing aimed at combating poverty and social exclusion of children, children with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87919	Thank you. Now we'll see if the committee's reporters take their word for it. If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first one was respected by Sonja Cikotic on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87920	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. I will present on behalf of the Club MOST a position related to the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Extra charge. We welcome the announced expansion of the Children's Compensation database, but it is simply not enough and it is necessary to systematically access family policy with full solutions and a clear goal of family policy development. With these amendments to the laws on childcare, we do not provide systematic care for children and family, nor support for the purpose of supporting and raising children. On these amendments to the law, we have tabled two amendments that could fix this law and are aimed at extending the child-adjustment database in such a way that all households whose income per household member has 3326 kuna are entitled to a child's allowance. I point out that the basis for exercising the right to a child's allowance has not changed since 2006 and costs have increased. Energy costs, public transport, nutrition and available facilities for quality and individual child-growing according to their age have increased. The second amendment concerns the very height of the child's allowance. It is simply clear in the ministry's very explanation that one of the objectives of amending the law and combating poverty and promoting an innovative policy is. However, it remains unclear, a link, as you think children living in households who have 534 kuna income and 14 lip per household member avoid the risk of poverty at an extra 300 kuna. In terms of combating poverty, especially children, we have proposed an amendment that is about to increase the amount of children's allowance to 500 kuna for those in the first group. In the previous debate, good proposals were made by the opposition, but you did not respect them. We are faced with negative movements in the area of demographics with increased emigration. You are talking about expanding the children's extra base by 150 thousand, but I warn you, HZMO data are talking about moving the number of children and children's extras for children. From 2015 to 2017, a continuous drop in users for 35,000 almost, namely 34 thousand 229 users, was seen. And the average of our children dropped by 590,000 434 thousand over two years. This kind of data requires a stronger commitment to family policy and a part of it is certainly a message to the family about the amount of child's allowance. With such a legal proposal, there is no talk of any policy that is most innovative but remains within the framework of social assistance and mere survival for those who have received child support so far and for those who will be fortunate to recognize the law and that they too need state support. Just a question, what are we offering support for? Is this how they assure us of the purpose of supporting and rearing children or the purpose of hoarding poor and underprivileged incomes or for mere survival? The main demographic left the ministry with an explanation that it's all folklore, and with such suggestions we won't get far. Obviously, it is necessary to apply meaningful and excessive reforms that are not in sight. Instead, it is suggested that the worst populism of spreading the circle of those who will receive a monthly allowance of between 200 and 300 kuna or other words, toss out crumbs to the people and blur their eyes. All of this shows clear panic, no plan, something has to be done, and then we open up a state treasury and share a church. At the same time in this draft law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the proposed expansion of the Child Compensation Users database believes or does not require new employment in HZMO and not more than 20 new employees and, of course, the funds in the financial plan for 2018, 2019 and 2020, totalling around 5.7 million kuna. Under material expenditures, it is likely that they include denser feathers and paper, which will be printed daily by marine officials with endless 200 kuna solutions per month, instead of turning to digitalisation of public services, networking of public registers for which you have the intended funds in the Ministry of Administration, the Centre for shared services of 380 million kuna. My colleagues and colleagues, one-fifth of Croatia's population is at risk of poverty. At that risk, especially are children as the most sensitive population, instead of really helping them we offer them new officials who will worry about their rights. It is clear that such low child benefits will not contribute to strengthening family policy to help families meet the costs of food, education, education and other care of the child, but will only be strengthened obviously by the party criteria of the HZMO military. A particular problem is the small difference between the lowest and the highest child's allowance, and the difference between household incomes is huge. So the family where the average income per household member 534.14 kuna will receive a children's allowance of 300 kuna and the family where the average income per household member is 2,330 kuna 200 kuna. The fact that children have different needs at different ages has no speech, all 200 or 300 kuna each, and we have made our own. At the same time as the government probably admires the measures it takes here, increasing the child's allowance and sharing 200 to 300 kuna to children we have amazing things. Some give families at the birth of a child a thousand kuna, and the other several hundred thousand kuna, I'm talking about units of local self-government. Such management of taxpayers' money is irrational and without any excessive criteria and leads to extremes. Such a legislative proposal does not provide enough and is not a good enough link to make a necessary turn, especially in the doing of ruling in ensuring rational other public policies, public administration reform, reduction of it, not increasing the bureaucratic apparatus proposed by this law, discharging entrepreneurship through the reduction of labour prices and abolishing the parafiscal burdens of the whole approach of rationalisation and health system, and all to ensure that the implementation of family policy and the children's allowance institute provide sufficient resources for adequate living conditions of children and adults, of course with respect to all the circumstances in which each child is located, given the age and material opportunities. It's time as a society to tell us how important our children and family are to us. As I said on this legislative proposal, we have tabled two amendments, one aimed at expanding the base of children's allowance users, and the other at increasing the child's allowance per group, so each family whose family has a household of 3.326 kuna would be entitled to a child's allowance of between 500 and 266 kuna. The bridge will send its legal proposal to the legal procedure with a direction towards universal children's allowance clear message that every child and that every family is important and that they should stay in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87921	We're going to another debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87922	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here we are again facing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children in Second Reading. I would certainly mention what the secretary of state has already mentioned, three important changes occur with this law, one of these changes is an increase in income censorship from the current 50% budget base to 70% of the budget base, i.e. from 1,663 kuna to 2,328 kuna. In this way, this law extends the circle of users and includes an additional 150,000 children. As little as that may seem to us in this situation right now, I personally believe that these children and these users will be very welcome. Another thing that will enable our users in this way, which is that even more users will also get an innovative 500 kuna supplement. What is also very important for the emphasis, which is on schooling, that those children who are in high school education who last for five years will be able to receive a child's allowance by the end of their education and, of course, that children's allowance will be able to benefit from all those little users from their birth who have the right to do so. Why does all this matter to us? It has already been mentioned here on several occasions that some of our families are about 40% of parents starving when they go to sleep to give their children what is most needed. Also, if we look at the surveys that were done in the studies, as I pointed out last time in the debate, a large number of children are still considered happy in those families, which leads us to the fact, or our parents are trying so hard not to notice this lack, or simply children do not want to talk about their poverty. That's why I think by spreading this circle of users, we're going to help the kids in some way. If we look at it from our eyes, 200 or 300 kuna will be very little. But where I worked and where I still work, I was often in a position to see women who came without the most basic supplies for the hospital. They used to come without nightgowns. And they used to say, you know, 100 kuna support means to my kid that I could let him go on a trip with school sometime. So let us not belittle any support we give to our users. In particular, if these support has not changed since 2006. I therefore need to stress that this child's allowance is not only a social category that we will meet, but is in one hand going to be an instrument of population and family policy, i.e. in this way we will participate in preventing what is most important, which is child poverty. Especially when it comes to households with more than two children. In those households where only one adult is employed or in single - parent families. Some colleagues also mentioned that statistics tell us that the rate of poverty in the Republic of Croatia, if we talk about children, is about 7% higher than in other parts of the EU. That's right. That's what statistics say. But let our children get what they may need in this way, but what they need and what they may not be enough with this measure, but through other measures of social policy they will receive. What matters very much to me as a mother when we look at all these researches, you see how much poverty actually affects not only the social status but also the health status of children. That's where we as a society and as a state really have to work. But what's important is we can't say that only one ministry has to fight for it. Other ministries must be included, but also local and regional units. In order to enable children to participate in higher quality education and local units, also with subsidies in kindergartens and with school subsidies. As we have heard about the secretary of state, there is also a subsidized diet of children in schools, of course those who are the poorest. Well, here's one measure that will allow children at least one warm meal. I don't think it can be the only one, but I think with everything else, we can really help our children to make better growth and development possible. That is why what we often say is that it is the duty of parents to take care of children, of their well-being, but we must also, as a society, assume our obligations and provide them with preconditions for their quality growth and development. That is why we, as a HDZ club, will accept these amendments and the additions of the laws, welcome them and we feel that our government will not stop at that, and what I always like to say is that every proposal is welcome, every constructive debate is welcome, every criticism is welcome, and that is why I believe that we must be responsible, we must be responsible for our youngest, we must help those who really need this assistance most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87923	We're going to a third debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87924	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Extra for Children is before us, which does not really differ from that of the first proposal in any important article. Only the provisions on entry into force have been amended. The fact is that you did not respect any of the comments made in the first reading's discussion was reasonable, reasoned and consistent with research and recommendations from different institutions on child poverty, family, support from the EU countries towards families and children, on the most innovative measures and demographic strategy. You didn't even accept our bill and increase child benefits. In order to bring the public closer to what I'm talking about when I'm talking about child support, I'm actually going to use numbers, nominal amounts instead of terms like a budget base or percentages. The supplement for children, when we define it and what it is, is a measure which plays a primary role in Croatia's correction of increased costs in the family budget of the birth of a child. And he's connected to income censorship and as such, the fact is, he hasn't been changed in 17 years. A particular family that has income per family member of 543 kuna and 14 limes has the right to an extra amount of 299.34 kuna. Those who have income between 543 kuna and 15 June and 1119 kuna and 53 are entitled to an allowance of 249 and 45. And families with income between 1119 kuna and 54 June, and now, according to this new proposal, up to 2328 kuna will be entitled to an allowance of 199,58 June. This measure is currently used in Croatia by 292,000 children, and by passing this law this right will be recognised for about 150 000 children. And that's true and it's positive and it should be admitted. Any measure that is for the benefit of children is good. However, this is not enough, that is, because statistical indicators, expert analyses and warnings by the European Commission point to an increasing risk of child poverty, insufficient expenditure on children and families who are in an unfavourable, most unfavourable social situation. The alarming situation in Croatia, which has been warned by experts on the basis of clear indicators in recent years, is not just a mere word. This is really the result of different causes, from poor education, poor conditions, life-loathing, low-paid work, to insufficient social benefits. And the area of unequal care for children and families. Therefore, this proposal that we are discussing is not sufficient, nor should it be the only measure to achieve something. And what does he want to achieve? To ease the poverty of children? Is this part of the ultimate policy? Does it have a clear demographic effect? And what are the following short-term and what long-term measures are being upgraded to this proposal? From what we've seen and heard so far, we're not sure which way this is going to go together or in which direction this is going together. The allowance for children must have a really better impact on the mitigation of the risk of child poverty, however this will not be possible. Poverty is present in Croatia. Nearly one fifth of the population lives below the poverty threshold, which is in household numbers with two people and two children 4577 kuna, i.e. by person 1144 kuna. Furthermore, research and all analyses show that 27 people are at risk of poverty, which is another million, which is millions of citizens, so 500 000 are actually living in severe material deprivation. And social benefits are extremely important, and with us, therefore, they are also extremely important for the mitigation and risk of poverty, and we have been shown that a minimum fee as a measure is indeed targeted towards the mitigation of poverty. And significant for many citizens, and especially from the works of my county, the Sibenik-Knin County because many live really almost exclusively from it and from the extras for children. And that's why I'm wondering what's with the guaranteed minimum fee because it should be a priority and we should be worried if this government doesn't want to do it. The fact is that, after the separation for the family and children below the EU average, we are focused on the allocations for social benefits on social inclusion of only 0.2% of the 21.4 from GDP to this end. The fact is that the European Commission's report states that the minimum compensation guaranteed is inadequate and that the poor social situation also contributes to territorial inequality. And this particular government has given up reforming the introduction of a single centre for compensation and opportunities to ensure a fair system of social benefits for all citizens. At the same time, it is ignored that there are extremely unequal conditions for children, depending on the place of residence. More specifically, with insufficient state support, some children, from less developed cities and municipalities, do not have additional support such as birth benefits, scholarships and other awards or have no free kindergarten or any other service that children and families have in developed cities and municipalities. And that is why a single compensation centre is needed with a view to making the fairer and more rational direction of the money we have, because we don't have any other money. And what did you do with it? You gave up. You have chosen only one partial measure by this law and it is difficult to understand in what direction you want to develop this system. So we ask the question what about increasing the minimum fee guaranteed, and what about the increase in child benefits? And what about other interdepartmental measures? Finally, on the note that we will support this law for the sake of the family, because of children who will be able to obtain an allowance for children, but we would like to suggest that you really take more care of the citizens and that instead of shooting up for the relation of the President-Government, you should catch up with the job and suggest a clear perspective, a perspective strategy for demographic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87925	Let's move on. Now it's the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87926	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with a co-worker. To answer the most important question immediately, which is that the Living Wall will support this law because we care about content and we don't care who wrote the laws. That is how it has always been and will be, and we simply want to show that we will support all those measures that go to the benefit of citizens, especially for the benefit of children, even when these measures are hypocritical, even when these measures are dishonest, we will support and it is not the first time, we have supported some other laws. And it is important to see that we actually have in Croatia a ruling majority that behaves sectarianally and that means it supports only those laws that they themselves have proposed. It has never happened in this House of Commons, and it probably won't happen that the ruling majority would miss the law of the Living Wall or still some other party just in the second reading just because the authors don't have a HDZ party card. If by any chance they had it, then all these laws would pass, like this, that's out of the question. But here we are showing a different face and we want to say that we support everything that is good, no matter what side we come from. So, we perform synergy, we perform inclusively and not arrogantly, we do not consider our party equal to Croatia as some other parties think. In this law, what is positive is that there will be more children's allowance users and that 330 million kuna more will be paid to this end next year than has ever been before. However, these positive aspects of this measure end because we can ask ourselves the key question that we are interested in whether, after this measure, poverty will stop in the family, whether the eviction will stop and whether demographic recovery will occur. The answer is most likely not. It will not be because Croatia is very late in the measures of demographic renewal, it will not be because the measure is not brave enough, because the measure is more a product of the moment, because it represents we are going to say in some way the daily work of the ministry that it must do anyway and it is not part of a developed strategy and it is even less a reform measure. As the ministry would say, it simply has to spend the money at its disposal, so it's logical for someone to get something more. What should Croatia do to really bring about the country's demographic recovery? First of all, every child in Croatia should seek to receive a child's allowance. If we had a system like that in Germany where every child gets 194 euros no matter how many parents they receive, each third child gets 205 euros, each fourth child gets 225 euros. So a family that has 4 children gets help from the state about 850 euros, somewhere between 800 and 850 euros. This measure is not enough in Germany either because we see that Germany does not have enough workforce but for us here in Croatia at the moment it looks like a fairy tale. I know what the representatives of the ruling majority will say, they'll say we're not Germany. Yeah, we didn't, we certainly didn't pay, but at prices we did. Because today's new Eurostat statistics show that in Croatia food is cheaper than Germany 4%. So we can say that prices are practically identical and the price of clothing is more expensive in Croatia than in Germany. So we are, in fact, even more expensive at prices than the most developed EU countries. At the same time, Croatian workers are at least three times lower than they are in Germany and then it is perfectly logical that our citizens are mass, mass on a daily basis right now as I speak leave the country. And the question is, how long can we even last that wave of eviction? According to the study he's done, I repeat again the Croatian Catholic College, so you don't now say that the Living Wall is spreading some, I don't know conspiracy theories, so very serious studies from let's tell those circles that you yourself are self-declaring to yourself. The announcements say 500 thousand people will leave Croatia in the next 5 years, 500 thousand people. Are any of you worried about that? What will Croatia be without a working population? A wasteland. So you can when the citizens move out to build 1,000 hospitals, you can build 2,000 schools and you can build 3,000 factories, but if there are no people in the country, it's nothing more than an archaeological site, a wasteland, walls that you can see without any real interventions, without any result, consequently. Therefore, we are very late trying to strengthen family life in Croatia and try to get into demographic plus compared to demographic minus. We've actually been late since 2011. The moment the 2011 census results were published, the government was to come out with such measures, much stronger than we now have to try to save what was to be saved. If we allow the next five years, so when the biggest wave of emigration is expected to remain on, let's say the cosmetic measures, we will indeed have no one else in Croatia in five years but the HDZ presidency, their parliamentary representatives, the hands of the arrests and the elderly, it will be Croatia that will look like the collapse of the Roman Empire at the end of the 5th century. Because in Croatia, the situation is now such that when all obligations are paid, when the average Croatian family pays all obligations it remains according to family member 830 kuna for expenses, 830 kuna stays with them. The situation is that 70% of the family must borrow money to survive the month. So they don't borrow to buy anything I don't know real estate or some stuff like a car, etc. but they lend to pay for the directing and to eat. More than half of the citizens must work further to meet the existential needs, further. While citizens are doing extra work, they can't deal with their children, in any way, children can't see their parents. Do you know how many they see every day? 30 minutes before bed and in the morning when they wake up, it's the time parents spend with their children. Children can't eat normally if they can't see their mother, they can't, they can't eat cooked, they can't eat warm, they can't eat frozen, they can't eat dry because we just don't have a normal family life. Studies have shown that about 40% of parents borrow food or produce it themselves to eat less parents so that children can have enough. Instead of making some kind of reform, let's say that a territorial reconstruction is made because we see that units of local self-government are unable to meet the needs of citizens, let's say that it is a kindergarten. Watch out in Slavonia 10 to 15% of children go to kindergarten, so the vast majority does not go, there are no school kitchens at all, there are none, let alone to be organized I do not know any kitchen for poor, socially endangered children etc. And instead of getting rid of that question, it's not the government that's going to make it more important to arrest me, I don't know 10, 20 of some councilmen, some of the commissioners, some kind of headmasters, some of the imaginary interests, but that the budget money, the citizens' money is directed at what's important, and that's what's going on with the human factor. Parents can't afford trips, they can't afford extracurricular activities, they can't afford fruit and vegetables, they can't afford birthday parties, they can't afford shoes, they can't afford a computer, they can't afford a bed, imagine that. 25% of children in Croatia do not sleep in their own bed, and should allegedly have their own room. A huge number of children come to the 1st grade of primary school with a deficit that can no longer be compensated, with an educational deficit. So you simply see in 1st grade that some children simply can't master I don't know how to read, count, socialize and many other elements that are needed for normal development and that never makes up for it again. You can't have a kid who's not socialized in the first grade and doesn't expect in the fifth, sixth grade to become a medal or I don't know what, that's not how it works. It's all because the state doesn't care about children, it doesn't care about poverty. We've brought here to the Parliament the law to take 2.5 billion kunas to the banks and give them to the children. They wouldn't even let it go to another reading. Banks that are bathed in money, bathed, brought out of Croatia, which have 400 billion kunas and another 100 billion kunas through pension funds and currently have a surplus of 27 billion kunas with which they do not know what they will do but finance the state and give some kind of cash credit, of course they will not finance the economy... And when we called on the deputies to get the banks in order, to solidarity with the society they live in, and in which they became enormously rich then it was said to be a populist measure, that it was irresponsible. To whom does this Parliament serve? This Parliament serves to protect the rich and to take the poor. And don't let God give you Croatian citizens, I don't tell the MPs because there's no point in telling them, God forbid the state discovers that any citizen in any way is rich or what's called made a good life, but the state will find a way to rob it. Not allowed in Croatia to live well, not allowed in Croatia to have a normal civic standard. In Croatia, it is only allowed to peel the skin of citizens, to throw pensioners and families on a beggar stick, and in fact until these problems are resolved, until the general climate in society changes all such measures will be only paliable, and our ship will sink, the ship called Croatia will continue to sink. And how much do you take people out of their salaries, 27% of how much do you take VAT, 25%, how much do you take on excise fees? Expenses that don't exist anywhere in Europe, cars, sugar, coffee, cigarettes, I don't know what they don't all take. How much compensation do you take to legalize, for I don't know, reissue documents, for public notebooks, for executions? How much will it cost to build LNG down at Krk? How much is it going to cost after you realize Agrokor won't pay his debts to HEP? Think about it while you still have time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87927	Thank you. Let's move on, next up, the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, dear colleague Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87928	Thank you, Mr. President. We have before us a bill that will actually approve a palitative measure, although the government as a proposer declares demographic and intrinsic. Unfortunately, we can't get the impression that it's a proposal that fits into that category better than nothing. Announcing this measure as demographic is more than ambitious or what some purest people would say is taking. In fact, this is only a social measure that tries to narrow down poverty or at least mitigate its consequences. And you need to be honest, so call it that. Of course, it is commendable to spread the number of users because there is a socially justified need. It's good to raise the censorship from 50 to 70 because it's been clear for a long time that he as such was insufficient, but he himself says something much worse. So the accounting base from which we begin testifys that we, or the state, already perceives our citizens as the sea of the poor. There is no successful demographic policy without a change in the overall atmosphere in society, this is what all recent recent research says, I would say, in a series of debates held, round tables at which the most famous and less famous Croatian demographics who warn, just as recently published research by the Croatian Employers' Association, which are the real reasons for demographic losses, above all for emigration and then for a small birth rate. There is no doubt that a young couple do not decide to have children because the state will give them 500, 600, or 800 kuna children’s allowance, that is the last thing that matters to them. The moment they think about whether they have to support their own parents, of course it's an obstacle, one of the obstacles. It will happen, I fear very soon, that more families in Croatia will support pensioners than children. And we're going to have to introduce pensions like this in retirement, not just a child's allowance. Because as someone said, Croatia will remain a land of old people. So the fact is that young people who leave and when you ask them for reasons why they don't start a family, list a whole series of reasons that talk about overall opportunities in society. The overall opportunities in society, we know, are very bad, corruption, nepotism, a non-permanent workplace, an increasing proportion of workpieces, hate speech, intolerance, the creation of an atmosphere in which others are not welcome, the creation of an atmosphere in which those who are not alike, are neither suitable, are not the opportunities in which people feel safe and in which they want to plan their future, and then their children. If I can't work to earn my salary with honor, if no one protects them when their rights are violated, if they are treated as mass, and not as creative individuals, if preschool education for these future and potential children is bad, if they've been having such a gallant debate for years, let's just say curriculative reform, what can young parents think of a society where they have a child to grow up in? If there is no functional justice that will protect them, in all their rights, if they have no more to turn to and if they see that this state that should be their service becomes more and more tusty and fatter, they lose trust in it and they want nothing more to have with it than emotional relationships, and emotional relationships can function far and wide regardless of the old one away from the eyes, away from the heart. It is their bad experiences that commit them not to have children or to move out. They want, especially in the formative years, especially in the years in which they will form long-term for life, live and work in an atmosphere that recognizes them as a person who rewards and appreciates their work and will not harass them, but will provide them with a service. Whoever is talking about demographic policy in Croatia, and is unable to put first the restructuring of the state, the reduction of the public sector, the radical cutting of public costs in the sector, the reorganisation of territorial, in terms of the establishment of a functional network, and not of art, it will not speak the truth and will not be ready for changes that can really lead to a new atmosphere in which people will want to live in the country in which they were born. If their work is so burdened today, with so many tax duties, if every cost they make actually reduces the space for their normal, human, human, social life, they'll look for a place where out of 10 they'll be left with 5, not one for life. So this isn't a demographic measure. And let's not convince ourselves that anything will change by raising this censorship, except that the number of children whose parents will get the money on the bill will increase. This is some help, but social assistance, according to the level of censorship and old and new, is about families that already live in poverty or are on the poverty threshold, these are not families that are able to create room for new value, affirmation of their children, better education, new perspectives. We will not encourage anyone to have bigger families by this measure. But according to that logic I mentioned, better than nothing, in that scale of social giving, that one might be increased, and that toward those most vulnerable, is the most sensitive thing that we will support. So the GLAS and HSU club will support this bill, but it warns the government, your time is leaking, as has been leaking to previous governments, to all those who have ignored what is going to happen to us and what is waiting for us. Of course, it was expected that a large number of young people would leave Croatia and after entering the EU, following the relaxation of our relations, bilateral with individual countries that had initially placed a certain reserve, i.e. a time-blocking of employment and creation. So from Poland, which did not have any economic crisis in which the liberal government, in which Tusk was in power at that time, left 900,000 people, from Poland. But almost 40% of them have already returned because Poland guarantees them a stable economy, a good social framework, everyone who has learned language, educated further, had a relevant experience giving them space for employment and advancement. In the Baltic countries overnight, they ran out of labour that went to Scandinavia or other countries. Today, pensioners work in large trade chains. So we too will have to face the fact that a young man should spread his views, especially if he lives in a closed and conservative society like ours, he needs a new experience, and it is good that he should and it is good to go, learn, see, but it is not good if he is sent a message that he has nowhere to go, that it will never be better here. All research suggests that Croatia is the only country in new Europe, conditionally said, so Europe that has entered the EU for two thousand years, which has been constantly stagnating since '89. A year. That's what's frustrating. When we refuse all the years of our war, peaceful reintegration and when we put the starting point on, say, '97. It's been over 20 years now, and we haven't been able to move a single millimeter, our progress has been micronic, while others have been running, robbing, changing paradigms, opening up a space of creation, investing, sometimes improvised, gambling, risking, but winning. And they're all way ahead of us because they care. And it doesn't matter whether they were liberal, a social democratic or conservative government, in many of these countries you'll find examples of paradigm changes because they were responsible for the future of their society. We're not. Political elite in Croatia since 1990. To this day she never established a consensus on the well-being of this country, never, always in the first place, were other issues that corrupted people's faith in their own country. When will someone who will have the strength to change that condition appear? And to make a copernican turn and to say these values that we swear so hollowly, the ones that divide us, the ones that fight us are not values that bring about the future. We must think of those to whom we will leave our country. When will those who will lead the story in the right direction come forward? Not keep Croatia on edge and dependent on service activities such as tourism. Let's make ourselves look like a big bar where we shop, and the others drink. But it is therefore necessary to change the paradigm, which is why it is necessary to play a proactive policy, if you want European, foreign political, internal political and should be aware that Croatia has to open its doors demographically before or after, and that it must lead a different immigration policy. The Czechs are the only ones in the EU who do not record high rates of emigration but are recording high rates of immigration. Hundreds of thousands of foreigners live and work in the Czech Republic, building the Czech Republic. How many foreigners live in Croatia? Why aren't we desirable? Why don't young families come here with kids like they do abroad? Croatia has always been an broadcasting country, always moving out of it because it has been going through bad historical experiences, severe economic crises. It's not the first time we've had that problem. But others are countries too, Ireland was one of the strongest broadcasting countries, more Irish people living in the world than in Ireland. But today he lives in Ireland more than 800,000 foreigners. Why do these people consider Ireland a desirable land to live in and work in? We're learning from them. And they fell to their knees in 2008 and 2009 but changed their paradigm. She hit the bottom of the top and said a lot, something has to change. In that sense, it's about time, maybe it was that moment, but at least we save those 3 million people who would stay in this country if we couldn't take care of those millions and something that left her for this or that reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87929	Let's move on. Now it's the club of representatives of the HNS and the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87930	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's the law where we all welcomed the first reading of this change. They also welcomed all the club representatives. However, we all agreed that they are good but they are not enough and are on track and today the debates are here in the second reading. We also believe in the HNS club that these changes are certainly a shift and a contribution that will help families of the weaker property state to settle children's costs especially to households with more children. The allowance for children in a certain way prevents children’s poverty in families, although it is in fact a fine line between poverty and what is prevented in that part but still has an additional fuse not to slip into the social assistance category. So far, even though it was low-income people, income censors have prevented them from receiving extras for children. These changes, i.e. by changing income censorship in such a way that as a condition for the exercise of the right from the current 50% budget base rises to 70% of the budget base or nominally from 1663 kuna to 2328 kuna, a circle of potential users will be expanded to allow child support for another 150 thousand new children. This will also extend the range of users of the most innovative supplement, which is achieved by users of extras for children of 500 kuna for 3 and 4 children. The height is still very small, and we agreed that 250 or 300 kuna is not enough but that's certainly help, it's help. Because we also have to appreciate every kuna that comes into the budget home because it's certainly a supplement that we can still have and that we can't afford to have that part. As these changes shifted the age limit for the exercise of rights will also allow for the use of allowances for high school students whose secondary education programmes last for 5 years, it is good because we saw that it was now unresolved and we had in practice often concerns and problems. A positive change to the applicable law is that it is also possible to grant an allowance from the day of birth and not from the day of application so that it should not be resolved in those first days with all other obligations and that part. During the next period, consideration should certainly be given to the introduction of a universal allowance for children, which would treat the allowance for children as the right of each child and not as a measure of social sensitivity intended solely for families of poor property. As I have already mentioned, this is certainly a positive shift but in order to talk about improving children's rights and preventing child poverty as well as resolving demographic issues should go with a much wider package of measures. Such as the reduction of child education costs, the availability of kindergartens and other services for preschool children, the harmonisation of family and business obligations, i.e. Parenting and work, as well as allowing young families to handle their housing issues more easily. Some of these measures have already been updated and this is an increase in maternity and parental benefits, and we have had a redefine of tax relief where we also have concerns about it, we have a subsidisation of kindergartens, but there is certainly room for improvement and consideration of our options. Measures for demographic recovery and assistance are being done in many ministries. So we expect soon in the second reading and the proposal from the Ministry of Construction made by Minister Shromar with associates, which is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, which seeks to improve the measure of housing and enable families to come to their homes more easily, which is also a shift in the achievement of children's rights and the improvement of family standards. This is the measure we first had in 2017 and proved to be extremely good. About 200 new children were born within 7 months. Polls have not been made, but this shows data according to the requirements submitted to the ministry for extending the credit subsidy period because we know that each child extends the credit subsidy period by two years. So this has proved to be extremely good, and the proposal for this new law is going to be in effect and in the next three years where we also expect it to be through it in synergy with everyone else because only one measure as we all agreed, whether it is an increase in the child's allowance, whether any of these will contribute to the fight against poverty alone, will not contribute to stopping the emigration, will not contribute to the demographic recovery itself. However, through the synergy of all the measures being taken in all the ministries, it will certainly be resolved and I hope and believe that we will soon be able to talk about the many good results of these measures. And in the end, the club of representatives of the HNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87931	We are now going to the club of representatives of HSS, respected colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87932	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. And the HSS club will support the proposal to amend and supplement the Children's Extras Act because we think it is one of the measures that can and must help every family in the Republic to stay here, to have children and to expand to increase the number of newborn children in the Republic of Croatia. However, what all of us must be concerned about and what is the alarm, according to DZS data in 2017, the number of newborn children dropped below 37,000 in Croatia. This is the lowest number of newborn children in Croatia in the last hundred years, more precisely 36,647 if the data are correct, that is over 7,000 newborn children less than before the 2008 crisis. And then we hear that this law or children's allowance as we call it, all 12 years hasn't changed since 2006. So what did all the governments so far do? They slept, and no one made sure that young people had a hard time deciding on marriage, that young people had a hard time deciding on a child, and that in the last few years many young people were moving out of the Republic of Croatia. According to the latest data, over 300,000 people have moved out of the Republic of Croatia. One reason is precisely from this data and concern of society, state, government of all past 12 years to change something more concrete and faster. And we support this change to increase that number of families and children by more than 94,000 families for 154,000 children. However, we continue to think that this is far too small and that these 300 kunas will not protect families and children from the poor and secure future of the family and that child, and that we must agree with the EU members, we must work with all legislation faster and more intensively not only this ministry, because it is not possible for one ministry to just solve as has already been said, but surely that we must all sit together and see what measures would contribute to the remainder of young people in the Republic, contribute to their decision to stay here, to start a family and have children. This certainly cannot be just this law and will not contribute to this law, and especially when comparing data on a child's allowance in Germany, which is 194 euros, in Ireland each child is 140 euros, then it is clear why young people are also one of the measures that attracts young families from the Republic of Germany to Ireland. Of course, we also support changes that extend the number of potential users of the 500 kuna option in accordance with this applicable law that they will receive for the third and fourth children. But they ask us from the HSS why not every next child, why only the third and fourth? I think there's a budget surplus that could provide that supplement for every child. We also do not understand why the application is only from 1.3.2018, I think you have administrative capacity because you have left the ministerial assistants and increased the number of employees in the ministry and introduced even state secretaries. So if there is money for new employment then you could find money to be since 1.1.2018, and not from 1.3. there is no reason to delay it and delay it because of administrative barriers. Let's get them out of here. We also find it unclear why this intrinsic supplement of injustice is not corrected if the child in the family turns 18 and has two, three or more children to lose the right to this supplement because the child has become an adult, especially if he is still in school. I don't think that's good, and I think there's got to be a way to stay that supplement for those families, for those kids, and not just for the third and fourth, but for every one of them. We also think that we should consider changing these census within the 550 kuna group to 2,300 because there are too many differences in the 3rd group, which is between 1,19 and 2,328 which is around 1,200 kuna. I think there could be a fairer solution. The children's 300 kuna supplement certainly does not give social security to that child or to that family, nor the possibility of quality schooling or having safety, because we believe that this is too little and should consider introducing a child's allowance for each child, as it is in many European countries, I think that Croatia, because of this demographic data, must consider that every child has the right to a child's allowance. We at HSS go one step further, we suggest that every child has the right to kindergarten. We see that through European Funds programmes, rural development measures are built kindergartens, contracts are signed for 45 kindergartens, now is a competition for more, I think there are about 200 units of local self-government who want to build a kindergarten in their local self-government unit, but the real question is whether parents in these units have local self-government money to finance their child in kindergarten and whether all municipalities have equal conditions. They don't. And the state must be involved in that part because you still have local self-government units that have the original budget somewhere between two and a half million kunas and those with 50 and 60 million kunas. and not all can carry the burden of kindergarten equally in their midst, and every child must have the opportunity to go to kindergarten because it is the safety that the family will have where the child leaves, those who are lucky to work. And, of course, it is also mentioned here that this measure cannot only enable young families to marry and have a child, but we must provide jobs for these young families, but also personal income from which they can live, from which they can finance their child. We see that, I say, we get smaller every year, that fewer than 37,000 children were born, and according to demographics, the data by 2050 is terrible. In some regions, and especially with us in Slavonia and Baranja, the forecasts are that we will be up to 40% less. We need to find measures to keep young families, this is one step, but too small, we need to enable confidence in the system, in the government, in the country of people who have moved back, and it is certainly a question of whether we need to think about immigration policy, and I think we need to, see how important the issue of migrants is, not just with us, but in all of Europe, so Croatia must also find models to attract people to empty areas, and unfortunately we have more and more displaced and empty areas and we need to think about giving these people a chance to stay in Croatia. Because we see that there is no labour shortage and we see that those parts of us, especially in the border work that we have preserved with blood, we have defended, that they remain empty now, that we are growing weeds, that we are expanding the arena of movements of wild animals and that we have a problem with how to secure our borders. We can only provide them if we give young people the chance to stay in Croatia, have a family, have children and have a country that equally cares about each part of the territory because it is not equal to living in Gunja, Dubrovnik or Međimurje. The differences are too large and something must be done to change and reduce that difference. We need more measures to have regional character, of course, that with these national measures for every child, for every man, we have to have these regional measures because the fact is that in all regions is not equal to the quality of life and especially when you see that the greatest risk of poverty is precisely in Slavonia and Baranja, over 80% of the potential risk of poverty is right in Slavonia, then everything is clear to you what needs to be done. I think that I am a programme for Slavonia and Baranja and the projects that are within it will not allow these new jobs and such income that people can live on it, but must come up with additional measures, new measures, generous financial support from the state budget and thus allow for the survival of the lives of young people in Slavonia and Baranja and each newborn child to be rewarded and their family with a bigger child's allowance because this is not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87933	We're moving on to an individual debate now. First up, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87934	Thank you, Mr. President. Demographic policy is a strategic issue of every country, especially Croatia, which has been facing a low fertility rate and a decline in population over the past few decades. Croatia is the first time since II. World War II marked a decrease in the total population during the 1991 to 2001 census period, and unfortunately this continued from 2001 to 2011. The demographic problem of Croatia is very serious, it needs to be perceived as a strategic issue of survival, which the government of the Republic of Croatia has taken very seriously from the very beginning. With its constitution, the Government established a resolute ministry, which is now called the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, and adopted key documents by sending a clear message and setting strategic goals, which is the creation of a demographic policy aimed at improving the quality of life of the family, i.e. its members, and ultimately ensuring Croatia's future and survival of Croatia. Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children are directly intervened by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the current measures of family policy or population policy. It is important to stress that previous governments have also talked about the difficult demographic situation in the Republic of Croatia, they were aware of the decline in the number of inhabitants, but it is also a fact that no government since 2006 has intervened in this law, nor in the level of income censorship as a condition for the exercise of the right to pay for children. With these amendments to the law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made serious corrections to the Law on Supplements for children, and it proposes raising the level of income censorship as conditions for the exercise of the right to compensation for children from 50% to 70% of the budget base. This legislative provision extends the number of users of the surcharge and thus the most intelligent supplement to be made for the third and fourth child of the child benefit child. The improvement of legal regulation through amendments and additions to the Law on child allowance extends the range of potential users of child benefits, and thus children who are entitled to an allowance for children. At the same time, a round of potential users of the most innovative supplement is extended, which is made up of children's allowances of 500 kuna per third and fourth children, in accordance with Article 18 of the Act on Child Extras. The improvement of legal regulation is also evident in the amendment to the provisions on age-limits for the right to an allowance for a child attending a high school, whose education takes five years. The new legislation allows for the use of extras for those children or high school students whose secondary education programmes last for five years. Furthermore, the law allows the right to pay for children to be paid from the day of birth and not from the date of application for a child's allowance as prescribed by the applicable law and at the same time the time limit for applying for the exercise of the right. Amendments to this law intervene in family and population policy, but also in part in the employment policy, because for the implementation of this law, in order to increase the volume of jobs and ensure further effective implementation of the procedures related to the right to compensation for children, new 20 HZMO workers should be employed. When we look at it, we can definitely conclude that the proposed amendments and additions to the current Law on Extra charge for children are useful and yet more children in the Republic of Croatia are involved in the exercise of this right. What is certain is the intensity of the ministry that will take place in the next period of time is that the allowance is provided to its children in the Republic of Croatia and I would ask State Secretary Margaret Mađerić if he has information, whether projections have been made and how much would it cost if all children were covered. For example. in Germany, only extremely wealthy do not exercise the right to a child's allowance, so the child's allowance is indeed a support to a very large number of children, not just socially endangered. So there's an average family with employees of parents who are middle or VSS who own property regularly earn children's allowance, not just socially endangered. I agree that this should certainly be defined as social assistance, but I am sure that this government will find opportunities for this spectrum to expand in the coming time period, or the number of children who are entitled to compensation, if possible in accordance with the financial opportunities of the Republic of Croatia and to go towards some ideal that indeed almost all children are entitled to an allowance. What is more important is this from the position of the social care centre, and regarding the proposed changes and the rights arising from the Social Care Act, there is no significant change in the social care system because the rights recognised by the Social Care Act do not include income allowance or is not an obstacle to the recognition of rights and welfare system. I think it is extremely important because income does not count when recognising, for example, guaranteed minimum fees, one-time benefits, personal disability benefits, aid and care allowances, and thus does not affect the reduction of the living standard of the existing and future users of the welfare system. By adopting these amendments and supplementing the law, Croatia sends a clear message that we are focused on creating more favourable conditions for family life with children, raising the quality of family life, and in particular on achieving the personal development of the child, and ultimately on contributing to the overcoming of child poverty. Every kuna invested in the child will be returned to the future, and by investing in children we invest in the future of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87935	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87936	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague, Celic, I agree with you that every child must have a child's allowance and that it is good to expand for those high school kids who have a five-year program. But I'm asking you if students are children, especially students of workers, children of workers who work for 2.5, 3,000 kuna for that salary. And they would like to study and are unable to fund their study. So I think that within the framework of the government budget surplus, and since not everyone is able to get different scholarships then I think there's a possibility that measures can also be introduced through such laws and demographic measures that even students have the right to an extra while they study regularly, and they fit into this censorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87937	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87938	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I agree with you that we should legally allow students, I do not think this is possible with this Children's Compensation Act because of the definition of the child as such. So according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, children should in no way be discriminated against. As for scholarships for students, most of the local self-government units already provide these scholarships for students. Is there a legal possibility that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy is also legally regulated, but perhaps in some other way and under some other law, I don't know, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87939	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Marija Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87940	Thank you, Vice President. Colic, you said that you actually mentioned a lot at the beginning of your debate demographics and demographic trends and the situation in which Croatia is, mentioning exactly how this government, thanks to this government, is a prominent direction and strategy and has very, very clear goals. In that sense you also mentioned that there is this ministry that in its own name has the Ministry of Demography. But so far, what the trends that are currently being shown are not exactly showing is that what you did and put into one resort ministry of demography, that this resulted in what was meant to be. So because the problem is inter-resorial, the problem is much bigger and must be the subject of really all the resistors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87941	The answer of the esteemed representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, it's impossible to expect in such a short time period of some visible results, we all have to take into account if we're not going to tend to get some cheap political points, I'm going to say, while HDZ was in opposition, while the SDP was in power, was also objecting to the great part of Croatia's entry into the EU, freedom of the market, everyone has the right to freedom of movement within the EU, so this definitely affects the overall situation in the Republic, but I can't agree with you, I think that Minister Murganic is making a big effort with his team to make the results visible maybe in 4.5 years, but I think this is also one of the direct measures to encourage demographic development in the Republic of Croatia as much as in a political sense, but I think this is still a direct demographic measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87943	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87944	Did you apply something in the Assembly that it is impossible for political rivals to admit that at least someone tried to do something right? This is evident that this is a good move by the government, and today you have very little heard the story about this being good, that this should be upgraded in this direction and that direction, and among other things to think about the Croats from BiH, but to try to get scholarships, which is simply not the subject of this conversation. The scholarship is regulated by other criteria, other conditions and I will look forward to one day when in this House we all want to do something good and that this is just one cube in the mosaic measure, and that we all realize what we want in principle, which is the demographic renewal of Croatia, to ensure that young families have some future, that they have more children, etc. Today, however, there was no such thought in the congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87945	Dear Representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87946	Well, well, you have a little more political experience than I do. I would still be a little more moderate, it came from certain opposition clubs, no matter what they are, a little bit more critically intensified by their discourse, but it seems to me, however, that, let's say, the GLAS club said it would support these legal changes and the HSS club said it would support, so it's only a matter of seeing how big these changes are, but yet it seems to me that we all agree that these changes are positive and therefore all support to the ministry headed by Minister Murganic on this paper. I'm saying, the results don't just show up so fast, and they're not visible at this point, but this is a good guideline, and then we need to go to some even better results and even more censorship, so even more children who would be entitled to a child's allowance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87947	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be colleagues of the Bunjca. He's not here. He's losing his right to debate. The next debate is the respected representative God Ljubic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87948	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government, or the Ministry. So there's a law in front of us that's not big in scope, but by its effects it's very significant. So the fact that for a long time we've been facing a fall in birth, with demographic decline, and these data that the ministry has provided in the light of this law confirms it. In 2015, the number of users, therefore, was around 187,000, and the number of children was 351,000. 2017 user number 153,000, number of children 290 000. The very fact that the bill, i.e. by raising the income census from 50% to 70% of the budget base, is expected to make about 50% more use of the child's allowance, which includes more than 150 000 children according to the ministry's estimates. It therefore speaks of the importance of these amendments to this Act of Extras for Children. The second thing, when it comes to this law and the estimates of the financial resources that will be allocated to the foundations of this law, these are the funds at the annual level of the order of the size of 360 million kuna. So this means itself that this is not a palatable measure, but a measure which is essentially necessary to improve the child's allowance and everything that draws with it as benefits. In addition, of course, other measures, such as the optimal supplement for the third and fourth children, further inclusion, i.e. the extension of allowances for secondary children who are educated under the five-year programme, etc., etc. And of course, these amendments and additions to the law will have its very large social dimension and the fight against poverty, but not only that, because users and their children now include themselves and their children who cross that poverty threshold and have a significant and innovative dimension. On the other hand, the educational dimension of these measures will enable these children in these families to now be educated and raised in a much more dignified way. Furthermore, it has a health dimension, I as a doctor, I as a former health minister can credibly confirm that the health of the population, the health of the population only depends to a lesser extent on the health system, and to a much greater extent on the education and social status of the person who is part of a society. However, I have also answered if you would like, primarily for this debate, that I should point to another question, which is therefore a question of Croatian citizens who are resident in BiH and who are constantly employed in the Republic of Croatia and their children. And I would therefore ask the Government's representative that, in this period ahead of us, until the adoption of the law, to reconsider this issue and to see, at this point, I cannot say what number of these people who work in the Republic of Croatia are constantly employed and whose families and children are in BiH, and how many children it is and how much funding it would require. So here I am, and my colleague Ragug, we have not proposed any amendments at this time, but I would suggest that, in this period, the Government consider this issue and possibly if there is room to react with its own amendment. Why am I saying that? It is very important, therefore, for Croatia to be demographically raised, to act in the most innovative way here but believe it is equally important for the Croats in BiH to remain in their hearths because it is a strategic interest and the Republic of Croatia because the preservation of the remains and political subjectivity of the Croats in BiH is an extremely important strategic issue for the territorial integrity and stability of the entire region and the Republic of Croatia, and there is certainly always a concern that people who have a permanent job in the Republic that is only one step so that both their families and their children are brought here to the Republic and then empty a large space, which is here and in the near past some 25 years ago, so I would say the crucial role and defence of the Republic of Croatia. As important as it is for us to act in the Republic of Croatia, it is equally important to encourage the stay of Croats or their families, in this case children, therefore, in BiH. And here is the measure, therefore, by including these children in the children's allowance, we will actually encourage these families to stay alive on their hearths in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87949	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87950	Thank you, Mr. President. You told your colleague Ljubic the importance of the fact that a number of Croatian citizens living in BiH who work in the Republic of Croatia and their children did not get the right place in the amendments to the Children's Extras Act. I will only look back at the fact that during the war, 87 thousand Croats in the Federation were exiled from which tens of thousands were inhabited in southern Herzegovina, in the border section towards the Republic of Croatia, especially in the areas of Mostar, Capljina and Stolac, and the parents of these children are working today in the Republic of Croatia. I think what you have said is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to find a way for this category of Croatian citizens, i.e. their children, to find the right place in the Children's Extras Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87951	The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87952	Just for a little while, I absolutely agree on this and we certainly welcome the fact that children, therefore migrants and exiles coming from African and Asian countries, are entitled to an allowance here and should, in any case, include children of Croatian citizens residing in BiH, who receive salaries here and as far as I know, so I am not exactly an expert in this area, so the basis for, in fact, the right to pay for children is paid. So they earn that salary, and I think from a formal point of view, these children have the right to an allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87953	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87954	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Ljubic, speaking of these amendments, the additions of the Law on Extra for Children, it is good that you said, here is actually talking about a comprehensive measure of over 100,000 families that will use this measure and it is certainly a demographic measure as much as colleagues from the opposition ranks are reducing. And this is also about health care and others who will be made possible by passing this law. I'm glad you noticed this part about Croatian citizens working in the Republic of Croatia and living, their families, children in BiH, and this is how they are deprived of their right. In fact, it should be said that foreigners, persons under subsidiary protection, immigrants but also foreign Croatian citizens have the right to receive a children's allowance while Croatian citizens working in the Republic of Croatia do not have it, so they have certain conditions if their stay is longer than 3 years. And I think we should work on this, and I'm glad you appealed to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87955	Thank you. The Answer of the Honorable Representative Ljubic Nothing, thank you. [[I won't.]] Then the next replica of the esteemed representative, John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87956	Thank you very much. You normally opened a topic that if you hadn't opened today, it wouldn't have been good here for the simple reason for the past decades, the Croats from BiH were a demographic stockpile in the Republic of Croatia. But they were also a systematic political project to remove them from BiH. Or when you look around Split, Solin, Kaštele and Trogir today, when you look around Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Zaprešić, Samobor, Long Village, you will see how many of these people there are. Well, today, if not right now, then as soon as possible, we should send a different message. Send a message to those Croats here, your second country Croatia allows you and you will receive a child's allowance to stay on your hearth. It's one message, one strong message that isn't maybe financially doesn't cost that much, but it's strong. Because I think it's something that Croats should do right now in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87957	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87958	So here is my colleague Babić and his colleague Šuker, so my colleague Babic, of course, in the debate in the first reading, first raised the issue, as well. We absolutely agree on this, today more than 100,000 Croatian citizens who have escaped have been exiled only during this war. Part of their family still lives in Bish. What the Republic of Croatia can contribute through this extra measure for children, which is that this space is preserved in BiH, a historic Croatian space. They have other measures, of course, financial measures, the lending of family economies, which is also part of the law, so Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who unfortunately have not yet been realised, so all of these are measures to help the Croatians actually stay in BiH help themselves in the long term, integrity and development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87959	Thank you. Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87960	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Dear parents, respected mothers of Croatian children. As my colleague Vlaovic said in a debate on behalf of the club, HSS will support this positive shift, which unfortunately only happens after 12 years, although it is a small shift due to the situation in the demographics of the Republic of Croatia, but it is somehow a positive shift. It is regrettable and I am terribly sorry that we do not have the strength to take a serious step in demographic policy because I do not think that there is a price we should not pay to stop this terrible trend in the population, the number of people, the age of the population, the working age of the population, and this terrible trend of demeaning Croatian children and their parents. We always have some kind of census, I think it's unfair when someone for 1 kuna exceeds that censorship, when someone for 5 kuna exceeds that census and doesn't exercise the right to a child's allowance because for those few kunas that exclude those parents, that is. Kids get extras are no richer than the ones they get. And we believe in HSS that all children in the Republic of Croatia should have the right to a child's allowance, that they should all have the same amount of child's allowance because we care about children in Croatia who will be born here, who will live and who, if Croatia's policy changes, may stay alive in the Republic of Croatia and guard this Croatian soil. Unfortunately, in this country where the president argues with the prime minister, the prime minister argues with his insubordinate members of the party, the opposition presents his opinions, ruling that they are some kind of big criticism, that it is something very bad when we oppose certain things that we think are not very good, that we should change them for the better, rather than take it as a well-intentioned criticism because these laws are proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia, which at the moment is headed by the HDZ, which has the majority in the Croatian Parliament and all the laws that they propose and adopt in the way they want. Our desire is just to try to influence their thinking and to change their thinking in a more quality way to improve life in the Republic of Croatia. In Croatia, it is not easy to raise children today, given that there is no job, that wages are low, and costs are practically as low as in the EU. Today we are talking about the price of fuel that is even higher than in the Republic of Germany, and those who have children know very well how much fuel is spent in rearing and caring for children if you want to provide them with all the opportunities that these children need to grow into normal and educated people and decent citizens in the Republic of Croatia. We don't even have enough pediatricians, we're talking demographic politics, demographic restoration, we don't have a pediatrician. We are facing a problem that we do not have adequate doctors who specialize in the treatment of children at their earliest age. We sell water sources to foreigners. We sell or give or I don't know how we lose, but they get into the hands of strangers and food production resources. I ask you in what way will our children, who, even if they have a child's allowance, live in the Republic of Croatia, in what way will they feed and how healthy it will be and how much will it depend on some foreign bosses who so master Croatian? We today have a government in the Republic of Croatia that serves large capital, as counterpart Bunjac said, we could take a considerable amount of money from the banks, which would not disrupt their business significantly, we could look at Viktor Orban in Hungary who did just that because he was fighting for his people and for his country, but not. We're here to help the banks, i.e. those who run state policy today. We're going from the affair to the affair, Agrokor, Remorker, not to count, from the painting of the tunnel and I don't know what, here and now I'm driving down the freeway, so there's a bus stop along the highway for miles long, and between the settlements where there's a couple of houses and highways there's a belt of forest. It's done again as it used to, and all of this is looked at by the parents and our children, whether they get a child's allowance or not, and then they simply decide to take things, suitcases, print out children from primary school, and not parents who don't have decent incomes, but who have decent incomes and go the way of Germany, Ireland because they have concluded that in this country they'll all be in the hands of strangers, and then they decided that it's better to go to those foreign countries where there are far better wages, where you know how much you work and what amount you work for. And here's just as we talked today and heard that in Germany there is a child's allowance somewhere from 190 and some euros up to 220 and something depends on how many children you have, and even for those of our Croats who get there who are entitled to that child's allowance because they have appreciated labour, and in Croatia they have been underestimated and chicanated. I ask you how many children will be born outside the Republic of Croatia of these 350,000 people who have left the Republic of Croatia, how many children will take the citizenship of the countries where their parents have left and probably will never return to the Republic of Croatia because there is bribery here, corruption, kidnapping of that we are all aware and we know, but we do not do anything about it. Today everything in Croatia is wrong, and what is wrong is right. Honest is to be unfair, boring to people who do their business, and those who steal from the Croatian people, and then finally to the Croatian children and their parents, they are all honest. We look at everything around us to see that some of the judges travel around the world in games, those who get caught with a finger in a jam run across Bosnia, so I guess that's where they'll get what my colleague Ljubic said as a child's allowance. I believe that we are in one great error and that politics is going in a completely wrong direction and that this is not politicised on my part but that the thinking of the people I meet on the road in my village where I come from who are simply desperate with this state, with injustice, with a judiciary that doesn't work can't look anywhere for their rights, millions of papers for some things and then for this child's allowance. I therefore propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to introduce a child's allowance for all Croatian children, regardless of the property censorship and to have no problem with the paperwork, but also to feel all children equally. Although we in schools try to equalize children with some kind of uniforms and I don't know what, so let's even them in this part when they're supposed to get a child's allowance. Here's so much for me. I know none of this government of the Republic of Croatia will accept. I feel sorry for all parents who make the most effort for their children because every parent loves their children and wants them all the best they can want and give them, but this is because our demographic policy is likely to make these wishes come true somewhere in Germany, Ireland, France or where children are needed and where children are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87961	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Before the replica, I would only ask all speakers to stick to the subject, the Law of Extra for Children. The first replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague. So I think we're a little bit in the way of terminology and let me refer to countries that we know how to look at, which is Germany, and let me also have foreigner words in German because we don't have any official translations. So what you're saying and what I can support is Kindergeld or child money in a literal translation, that's the money all the kids get. What we're discussing today is Kinderzuschlag it's a child's allowance, but it's a social category of giving for parents of raisers of children who are below certain property censorship. And in Germany you also have Ortsuzschlag in a literal translation that would be a local supplement that units of local self-government or cities and municipalities can also give children according to some criteria and some property censorships. So if we promote demographic policy, even though this is a commendable move, I think this Kidergeld and Ortszuschlag that our units of local self-government would be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87963	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87964	I thank my colleague. Well, we can termically say it's either that or not right or wrong, but I wonder when we're going to get out of this social category when it comes to demographic restoration. Germany, fortunately, does not have such demographic problems as we do, but they attract all of our most skilled people and the most educated who want to go to work and open the door for them, if you heard their minister say that the door for Croatian workers is wide open in Germany, then also for their children. I think if it's a demographic renewal that we can't talk about the social category anymore, but we have to do everything we can to make the population fall, the fall of newborn children, the fall of children staying in Croatia stop in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87965	The next is the replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87966	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Lenart, you have well noticed how ruling and every critical consideration is met on the knife, so it goes away when it's supported by something. And I guess that's because they haven't supported any of the legal proposals that came from our side so far, no matter how good that proposal was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87967	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87968	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues. So here you are right, as an opposition in the Croatian Parliament, we support a large number of proposals from the ruling ones, but here is almost no amendment that we have referred to the laws of the ruling ones they have not accepted. He talks so much about how important it is to listen or not to listen. There's a dictatorship here, I won't tell the party, but like the parties that something has to be brought and everyone has to accept it that way. And all that we're saying, I think there's a lot of smart and educated people in the opposition, and they know what they're saying. And you know, when you listen to two or three fools know how to say something. And if you're a smart man, then you'll get out of it what's smart. But the ruling obviously can't take the smarts out of what we're proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87969	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zeljke Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87970	Thank you. Dear colleague Lenart, we're from the same county and you know the situation in our county. With these amendments and the additions of the law, you know very well that a large part of the children will be included in our county as well. I am pleased that you have decided to support these amendments and additions to the Children's Extra Act. But let's not be so critical, let's not be so critical over that 200, 250, 300 kuna. From my eyes and from your eyes it's very little and I agree with that, but trust our children, in our county this will certainly come in handy. This is still a social category, but in this assembly, everyone who debated today agreed that a child's allowance does not have to be a social category, but that is why we must as a society and as a state create certain preconditions. Because it's important for all of us to be supported by this country and to stay in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87971	And the answer comes from the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87972	I thank my colleague Josic, so here we are coming from another poorest county, we have our mayor who only walks on festivals and openings and so, he doesn't care much about what we're talking about here. To him, it's something other than PR and self-promotion. If he cared a little more, we wouldn't be at such a low bottom. Of course, every kuna in our county will come well because there live a lot of poor people living in a large area away from the center and it is not easy for them to neither take care of children nor give the children the maximum they would like to give because they are far away. Everything that is far from Zagreb is far away from them, they also have poor medical care. However, I believe that all children are entitled to equal amounts because they are all Croatian children, we have too few and we need in any way to find strength, encourage all those children, so I think in our county those who, for 2, 3, 5 kuna or 100 crossing censors, would be happy to get the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87973	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87974	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow Lenart, every child is important and every child should have a child's allowance in the Republic of Croatia. The World Cup, today we play with Argentina and we want Croatia to win, we are all unique about it that every player on that team is important. But it should be reminded that most of these players come from small, rural backgrounds and that this is where the poor parents who want their child and education and sport live. With such a small children's allowance, we won't have any more high-quality players because the country clubs are shutting down, there's no money to finance the same ones, and if there's no kids in those communities, there's no football clubs. So, we have to think if we want a strong Croatian team, we want to be strong on the sports plan, we have to beat Argentina, then we have to ensure these children a quality childhood and a bigger child's allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87975	Here's a response from the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87976	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaović. Here I will quote Stephen Radic who said, we are all peasants in the soul except those who have no soul. Not only do great football players come from small backgrounds but scientists come, experts and people innovators come from small backgrounds and we know that the village has preserved both tradition and costume and original food, and thus the normal mind in the country, that they have given great people who have celebrated Croatia in more ways than sport itself. That is why I suggest that all children have an extra charge and that special demographic policy should be conducted in the country, given that we see our village collapse, it is moving especially, precisely because of medical care and those conditions that they do not have in the city that we would like to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87977	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87978	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Every demographic policy either departs from a fair, socially sensitive and law-abiding state. I'll continue, actually I'll start my debate by continuing on the previous replica of two colleagues from HSS, if we're watching the World Cup in football, we could hear about an interesting piece of information, the football uniform of the Nigerian team is made for the price of less than 1 kuna, this same uniform is sold in Great Britain for a price exceeding 1000 kuna. So when we talk about demographic policy, about the social sensitivity of the state, then we can't avoid issues and that's the issue of economic development, of a regulated economy, of a country that prescribes a regulated economy. Why am I talking at first? You are State Secretary, your ministry has rightly written down three goals that this law should be made, what should be contributed to, that is, primarily, prevention of poverty and social exclusion of children, retaining or raising the quality of family life and the ultimate function of the law. I agree with my colleague Josic when I talk about 200 to 300 kunas are not a negligible amount to help families per child. But it does tell us, on the other hand, about the situation in which our citizens find themselves that there is a high degree of poverty and that it is such a small amount, and when we compare it with countries, developed countries, such a small amount of child support, they mean so much to families. By observing this law from the moment it was created in 2002, I think it's mentioned, when we see how it's calculated, so here the percentages are spoken of 9% and 7.5% and 6%, so you know as in Consume 2.99, they're not rounding up the amounts people get, but percentages. Instead of writing 300 kunas, 299.99. I think it would be better if we circled it to 300, 250 or 200. What am I saying? These amounts were obtained in such a way that someone, the finance minister said, we have so much money, so let's distribute it, and we'll see how many people get it. At this point there's more money, that money is not negligible, we're talking about a total amount of $1.8 billion, if I understand correctly, with a 362 million increase due to the expansion of the class that many citizens are now going to enter. 1.8 billion kuna. The main question is whether we are going to take these measures, by increasing the number of children that will be covered by this ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is a better, fairer RH that is more favourable to people's lives. Of course, these goals you set, I think they're very ambitious and we won't achieve much of those goals, but we certainly will. And that's why it's not an offense to mention it just for example. The total amount of public procurement in the Republic of Croatia amounting to 14% of GDP, so in EU countries, careful experts estimate that only better control of public procurement procedures, because we have 55,000 contracts, 40,000 contracts, etc. Bagatile purchases. Better control of public procurement procedures would save 4 billion kunas, 4 billion kuna would mean a much bigger extra charge for children with this money. What I've reported most for this debate is to comment once again, to sum up the whole story once more. You said in your explanation of the second reading that you rejected the proposal I suggested in the first reading, so that this spread to students, who have achieved adulthood, but they still live with parents, are still part of the family and they are studying. We have about a third of our young people's education, and when we compare it to the total working population, it's less than a fifth of people who are highly educated. This country, believe me, that this country would be competitive, in order to develop an economy, the task has to do with highly educated people, because we notice through this assembly that laws are coming, we whatever we want to destroy, we just need to encourage it. We do whatever we encourage, then it goes towards destruction, so today we have many entrepreneurs who get even generous incentives from the state, and pay the workers minimum wage. First of all, it is up to them to develop their businesses, to raise competitiveness so that workers get higher salaries so as not to have this degree of poverty. And because of this measure that would involve students in this story about a child's allowance is not a pointless measure, it would certainly have caused a number of good effects in the long term, but of course you probably do when you're in the ministry counting on how much it would be, with that danger that is often referred to as manipulation according to some estimates, many young people enter a study just to achieve further rights, and that study is not actually attending, and we have a problem, 40% of the students interrupt the university, and among other things, one reason is insufficient, the bad financial situation of the family. Smart criteria could avoid abuse in order to avoid those students from the poorest families, and I also come from such a county, my colleague Lenart surprised me, he says that they are the second most underdeveloped county in Croatia, I thought that this was mine, perhaps then my first, viritative-subrava, where we have a low degree of education, a very high degree of poverty, we can and must make sure that as many young people as possible are educated to later in their occupation, in their business this country seems better and more competitive. And finally just another remark, you've listed that, or are you at least in the media I've read that the users so far will not have to especially re-apply documents, what will happen to new users? A copy of the personal, birth certificate, marriage certificate, or if the divorce case, divorce certificate, in the case of custodians, is further requested, the system is a citizen, the central state office for a digital society, what does your ministry still intend to do in this matter to make it easier for citizens to walk on counters as little as possible to achieve it? And finally to say maybe once again, I will personally support this law because I believe that any help to the population is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87979	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87980	Thank you very much. I think you've identified the problem well when we're talking about demographics, that this law is actually just a small segment of a much, much bigger picture. And when we talk about demographics, we actually can't just talk about childcare, childcare, but we need to talk about the economy, the fact that our citizens should live a dignified life, that all needs should be met, housing, education, etc. that we should have a perspective here and, of course, enough revenue. When we meet these preconditions then we can talk about demographics, then the citizens will be motivated to stay in the Republic of Croatia to have children here, they will want to have children here, they will want to raise here because they will have a perspective, they will have children where they work, they will have decent incomes, their needs will be met. So when we talk about demographics, it's a much, much bigger problem than just this law. This law is a small segment which is a step in the right direction but remains only a step.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87981	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87982	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, you as a young man had the opportunity to say so to meet with the problems of entrepreneurship because you were, you were part of this story and what, everyone is so glare in this country and those who know that they are leaving today, who are leaving Croatia is clientalism, nepotism, you can't, in my county it's like that, I don't know if it's in your county. Well, you can't get a job if you're not part of the team, if, even then entrepreneurs don't complain or complain because they say you'll come in later, so shut up, do the furniture business, your public procurement is completely set up, the percentages are known. They know that in the IRS, they probably know that in the state's attorney's office, but nobody's doing anything, they're all clean and the money's leaking, and then, of course, there's not enough money for children until, and I agree with you until these problems are solved, Croatia won't have a demographic renewal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87983	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87984	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Everyone in the country agrees that the demographic situation is not good, there is no dispute about it. Perhaps there is only dispute over how to repair this unfortunate demographic situation. Every touch in the child's allowance was to raise the censorship, whether it raises the amount of child's allowance I think it's, uh, we could say optimistic but falsely optimistic. It's not going to solve anything. Unfortunately, he won't solve anything. She may raise or support an irresponsible parenting. There are no children due to increased incomes in the family, based on these children. Kids have kids because they want to have kids. How much is it? And how many of them you wish to have and how much you can support them. And anyone who is going to give birth to children in order to get something more from the state is actually an irresponsible parent and is angry with such children whose parent it is. So, I'm afraid that by getting into any kind of trouble, we don't solve the basic problem. And what's the problem? What's the problem? The problem is to find jobs first. How, how do you have a child and not have a permanent working relationship? How come you don't have any security? How come when you don't know if your employer will have you out of business in three months and you'll be out of a job? And then what are you going to feed that child with? Therefore, the commitment to punish an employer who takes a pre-ariat worker, who takes the one for a certain time instead of indefinitely, would be a demographic measure, indirect but demographic. How, they're going to attack me again, but I'm going to tell the truth, if the defenders have the advantage of hiring, how does one who wasn't even born when the war started and now enter the world of work get in? Is it his fault he wasn't a defender? Well, he couldn't have been a lawyer when he was three, four years old because he wasn't even born. And today when he goes out to the labour market, then the defense attorney gets ahead of him. So what's the justice here? And what are the chances of that young man? Well, let's not be surprised they're going to Ireland, to Germany, because there's no such competition, there's not even an Irishman there. It's a question of what he can do. If he's doing well, he'll get a job, if he doesn't work well, he won't get a job. And that's why it's going. The third reason he's going, so he gets 4.5 times the salary there. And why can't he get four or five times the salary here? Well, because we have a million and 200,000 municipalities and cities, unnecessary units of local self-government, in each chief, in each to the chief, in every assistant chief, in every driver, in every secretary, and all of this is spent on money. Well, if there wasn't such a spending of money, then the minimum wage could be $4000, and if the minimum salary was $4000, then we wouldn't be going. So do you think someone's going because they like to go? Because he thinks he'll be more beautiful and easier in a foreign world than in his own country? It can't be. Well, it's leaving the emergency room because it's burned to the nail, because there's no perspective here anymore. And instead of talking about that perspective and how to fix that perspective and reform the units of local self-government. Why do we need so many counties and cities? Let's agree on about 4, 5 historical regions, it'll be enough for a small country but we'll release a huge amount of money for hiring and retaining young people. Let's agree on everyone being equal on the labour market, not having equal ones because they're worthy. Let's give them something else. Let's pay our respects to them, I have nothing against it but the one who can't compete with it. Because then we're really not fair and then we don't know, we don't really know what we're doing. Therefore, I think this law is about what purpose it is that it is irrelevant. Things will continue badly, people see that here you must, how many members of the CNS are employed when they enter this government? Let's count them down, in various public enterprises. I understand, watch the political struggle is a struggle for power and it's okay to win the power to then join the ministries, to be an adviser minister, an assistant, okay, so that's the point of fighting for power, but to enter for the deputy director of a public firm instead of someone who's more quality there, it's not a struggle for power, it's a struggle for syncure. Well, now how many of these have come in and how many of them have been coming in since the '90s? This is the way Croatia exists, the way it exists, that the parties believe it is their party right when it comes to the position of hiring its people. In such a country, young people will not remain, whatever we do and whatever measures demographic policy we take because the only real measures would be systematic reforms, and for these reforms there is neither strength nor political will, therefore all of this is a rotten gran.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87985	Thank you very much. I've asked for future speakers to stick to the subject before, and the subject is the Law on Extra for Children. We've got a whole series of replicas, let's start in a row. He is the first respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87986	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić, my children, and I think we'll all want the best and we want them to grow up in the best possible conditions in the best possible environment. But if a colleague wants to grow up in a society where the gap between the rich and the poor is huge, so much so that you can't see from one side of the gap on the other side. If we want to grow up in a society where corruption is something that is normal, I won't say accepted but at least tolerated. Do we want our children to grow up in a system where they have legal uncertainty? So just remember the Sanader cases, the Calmeta cases, is anyone convicted at the end of the day? And even the Bear Dog beat our legal system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87987	My colleague Hajdukovic, you did not usually violate the Rules of Procedure, do not ask nicely. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87988	I'm replicating my colleagues to what he was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87989	The previous speakers after they spoke, I didn't interrupt them I asked them, we stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87990	And you're interrupting me. I'm replicating what he was saying and I'm trying to underline the point, and the point is we don't want them to grow up in such a situation and demographics won't get better until we solve these root problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87991	Thank you. The response of the respected representative, Szazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87992	The other day I saw a photo of my colleague Hajdukovic in a newspaper, former Prime Minister Sanader surrounded by fans of the Croatian football team.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87993	The fellow Stazić is indeed directly related to the child's allowance, surely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87994	Yes, it is, and when I explain it to you, you'll realize it is. Everyone in the gambling uniforms, everyone cheers for the Yugoslav team, takes pictures with a man who has been proven in some processes, and in another, he is still waiting for him to rob this country along with his party at the head of the party. So forgive me if I were 18 years old in such a country where fans with national features take pictures with such a man I wouldn't stay and I wouldn't be surprised at those who leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87995	Okay, now I'm giving you a warning after you've finished because you're consciously nice I've begged several speakers not to stray from the subject. This has absolutely nothing to do with child support, and you'll all agree. Therefore, you have now received a warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87996	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Stazić, it's just amazing to me how much you don't put up with Croatian defenders. Well, it can't go past any topic that has nothing to do with the Homeland War, today the topic is the right to a child's allowance without you being stuck up for the Croatian defenders who obviously bother you so much. And you are the first to bow down to Croatian defenders because everything you have, you have because of Croatian defenders. Shame on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87997	I will ask everyone again not to stray from the topic that is related to the child's allowance, please. There are a lot of things that are very important here, so let's discuss it ourselves. The next replica is colleagues from Peter Skoric. And I'm sorry, the answer to the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87998	The purpose of all children's allowances, the purpose of all such laws is to repair the country's demographic image, otherwise these laws would not be passed, which will give us such laws. So when we talk about demographics or when we talk about this law, then we talk about demographics. That makes sense. When we talk about equality, then we colleagues talk about the equality of those who can be equal. He can't be equal to someone who wasn't born and couldn't be a lawyer with someone who was a defense attorney, he can't because he wasn't born. To understand this requires a certain dose of intelligence, don't be angry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u87999	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88000	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, you are your review of children's rights, children's rights, extras, etc. used to trouble Croatian defenders, to trouble the county, municipalities, cities, to conflict with the state. You have a problem with all Croatian, all national, all patriotic and abuse of subject. What did you say about extras for the kids? You are practically using the situation here to disgust the Croatian state, but I am telling you, as much as this Croatia bothers you, it will be, it will survive and remain and it will take care of those who participated in its creation. And if you had any honesty and morals, you wouldn't be troublesome by the people who created this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88001	Thank you. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88002	I don't mind, as you wrongly claim, the Croatian state, but I do mind the things that are in it. And if things were good in it, then 40 thousand people wouldn't go, among other things, because of people like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88003	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88004	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, you mentioned one important thing in the opening of your presentation. When you talk about money being given through child support to families, many times it does not fulfill its purpose. You were talking about irresponsible parenting. I agree that it might be, here's an example of a mathematically clean count, that this money is being paid into some kind of life insurance policy by the age of 18, so that this child can have schooling. Maybe that would be the answer. However, at this point where citizens are really on the verge of poverty, any aid from 200 to 300 kuna means a lot to them, and here I agree with you that this is what it says about this, in fact, state of the country. But that's all we can change, to invest in education, to invest in young people and through this way, so I've asked the Ministry to include students in this group. And I'm interested in your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88005	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88006	Your idea is great, I support it. Instead of paying child support, a school policy. That's the money that belongs to the child. Instead of the Vatican contracts to pay off a church that's too rich, at the expense of children, at their expense, to school, to be competitive, so that they can stay and work in this country. Now, that would be reform. That would take courage. It would take courage to do so, and it would not please those who hold your votes in the election. And that's the most important thing in this country, and that's how politics are run, and that's how money is spent. Make out with someone, actually buy them, buy his political voice to sit in the Parliament and make a phone call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88007	The next replica is the respected representative Zeljka Josic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88008	Thank you. Dear fellow Stazic, I would refer to the part about the child's allowance that we are talking about here today. You say that there is no perspective in Croatia, that the supplement should not be touched because it creates false optimism. As far as I know, you are a professional politician and for many years you have been in Croatian politics and have been able to influence this child's allowance or not affect it over a number of years. So now I'm interested in what you would do if that child's allowance wasn't that optimistic or unoptimistic category and that was your contribution for all these 17 years, as far as the child's allowance hasn't changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88009	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88010	I spoke in general, and if you listened to me very carefully, I was talking about all the parties. I was talking about all the parties. The behavior of parties I think are one party logic that's wrong. So that doesn't mean that my government, if you mean it, the SDP government should have solved everything. Because if one government and the SDP government solve all problems, then no further government would be needed. Because all the problems in society would be solved and that would be the end of politics. So that kind of thinking isn't particularly clever. Problems come and problems are solved. But whenever they're going to be solved, then it's the right for all of us to at least suggest how we should be dealt with, and it's our right to say what we think in this House, even if it didn't like those who phone in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88011	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative of Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88012	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stazic, I don't know if you've been fascinated by the HNS, whether we're so much a thorn in your eye that you keep mentioning us, not just you, specifically today your colleagues are using every opportunity. However, the statistics deny you. If by your logic, it means when you talk about the number of HNSs here, there, if we participate in power and when we were together in power and then there wasn't, given the number of mandates, now especially not. And since 2000. So that certainly doesn't stand for what you're really saying is that we're clients, that we stand for this part alone. Finally, take a look around, look inside yourself. Have not some of your members made it very clear that your party's leadership was to do so? And as for that HNS contribution, you have a chance to listen to it. However, as far as the HNS is concerned, I will answer you for not saying that they sing, do not sing, but speak. And I believe that this saying is very familiar to you: The more slander and lies we find, the more we prefer the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88013	Thank you. This wasn't about the extra charge for the kids. The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88014	Maybe it wasn't about the HNS extra. It's me, yeah. I was fascinated by HNS, my colleague, Milorad, and I was fascinated by you personally, I was fascinated by your left ideas, I was fascinated by your struggle. I was fascinated, not anymore. I'm not anymore because, because when the electoral body chose you, it didn't count on you to transfer the staff to HDZ, it wasn't, because that computer probably wouldn't vote for you. So, look, you did it, but it's not my fault that you did it, it's the burden you have to bear. The fact is, the fact is that many of your people then agreed to this special supplement, the prize.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88015	Thank you very much. Now we will move on to two final opinions, again please, stick to the topic, the subject is the Law on Extra for Children and what we have heard today, what kind of papaziania we have heard about this point so far will be evaluated by citizens and by all those who listen to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88016	Thank you, Vice President, honorary secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. It's hard when it comes to this law not to expand a little bit of a debate or topic, so I'm going to try in some way, we at the HNS Club supported this law as one of a series of measures that are being implemented and that will be implemented in the components with it in the next period that this government has drawn up and, of course, the HNS will make a maximum contribution to that part. I'd just like to mystify some things whether this is enough or not. Of course not. An idea that the HNS represents as a country of equal opportunities for all citizens, as a country since the birth of pre-school, primary school and later education, would be ideal if it were all free. Absolutely, that we all have a job, means one ideal that is simply nowhere in the world at this point. In fact, I'd like to convey a more realistic picture and a review of the debate we've heard here. Of course, what, in order for this measure to have an even better quality effect in public perception, I must first see and I am sorry that it may not be, but I believe that there will be an opportunity for one more complete, one broader report by the restoring ministry to be seen from the local, regional and concrete national level in which both municipalities and cities and counties co-finance or support, give their contribution to demographic policy and the aim is demographic reconstruction. I don't think there are any municipalities or cities and that's especially visible after with 1.1, tax reform, fiscal balance, so there's been an increase in capacity for many local self-government units that may not have been able to do so so far because of very small budgets. Preschool education, let's look at rural development measures, they've mostly passed kindergartens. When we look at it, it means transportation, that's what's subsidized, which is already standard. Student scholarships, only the Ministry of Science has divided 10,000 scholarships this year. 500 scholarships for Croats outside Croatia. When he looked at himself specifically in the city of 5 scholarships, we had no one to share. County shares scholarships, state shares, social STEM scholarships. Well, that's positive. Many companies grant professional scholarships to keep workers or future workers from staying in Croatia, raise salaries, tax charges that were more than 2 billion kuna during last year. It is announced, it has also been announced since next year for employers, which should indirectly produce wage growth. In particular, the new POS building is activated, meaning first real estate, the possibility for young people to stay in Croatia, housing loans are subsidized. However, we must be aware of the prices. Does the Croatian State, the Croatian budget currently have these opportunities? I believe there are so many to think about a one-time child allowance for all children in the Republic of Croatia. So let's be realistic and objective, who wouldn't want to? Who wouldn't want to. HNS has proposed and we propose to continue, talk to partners, compulsory high school education and all the benefits it gives because if we want a country of equal chances then we have to make this minimum possible, we must no longer meet the standard of primary school but just high school should be a minimum. However, I ask the further question, Croatia remains burdened with problems, the health system is financially unsustainable, the pension system is financially unsustainable. Let's remember, we were making a budget, how much money is out of the budget for that part, how much is the external debt. I think at this point in time to conclude that this measure is welcome but I am also looking at it, and it was also announced by the Secretary-General that this is one in a series of measures that should give its pain and contribute to demographic recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88017	Thank you very much. The next final word is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88018	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here in this debate that has opened up a series of problems with demographics, so these measures that you've given MOST independent lists will give you two amendments. Of course, we also believe that these two amendments are not sufficiently elaborated on this Children's Compensation Act, and that we are going to propose a law that goes towards a universal child's allowance, and I think that we can meet this because the fact that this law that you have proposed that the amount and criteria, we see that they are not best done, that they were working on speed, so for the 534 households that members have per chapter 543 thousand kuna is 300 kuna and those who have 2238 kuna have 200 kuna. It's some kind of disproportionate, unreal, and that's where it's supposed to go. We have a debate here, we have been talking here and very important problems, so the topics that we should be talking about have opened up, but here's your demographic, Mr. Strmota, that these measures you're doing are simply folklore. That is why I call once again on the remnant movement that recognized the profession of ours, the proposal for an initiative to look at them, we will send them to include them because at this point, we only talk about demographic measures when we do not mention the EU funds where we paid, must pay 2014 to 2020. 30 million kuna, so far we've withdrawn only 3% of the funds we're withdrawing from these funds, so we're more giving the EU 30 times as much as it's coming back to us, we need to think about energy, microsolars where families would be richer, while it could be saved, agriculture, no irrigation, more and more importing money, food products, harmful,... Bad food somewhere and we're importing over 10 billion kunas, only pork billion kunas, we've been increased exports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all measures that these two thirds of Croatia can keep empty. I have also suggested and this is in Sinj and we have solved the problem but in Zagreb, for years I have suggested, here since I was 2 years old, that all primary school students have free textbooks. However, here is the HNS minister's call for curricular reform. And today, students in elementary school are harder textbooks and books, with extra equipment for school than they are. If it's a curricula reform and if it costs that much, you see, 5, 6, 7, 8ig, 10 kilos of textbooks, see how much weight is only and this is paid out of the parent's pocket mainly in rural areas. I even proposed an amendment, 300 million kuna would be necessary for all students in the Republic to be free textbooks for elementary school students. Those are some measures. Transport, we don't have a secure transport. Let's say we don't, there are subsidies in rural areas but subsidies in areas where no one wants to transport. So we have a huge problem where we still need to subsidize those areas. Two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia have been forgotten, meaning a number of measures from entrepreneurship, healthcare, all these measures are essentially caused by demographic breakdown. And this bill of yours that you have proposed we can view it as a measure that will increase by 150 thousand new users but basically that measure is essentially just a drop in the sea, I don't know... I said if this was a demographic measure, I would say here and once again to Mr. Stromoth that this is a measure that is mostly, measures that are folklore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The fundamental solution to the problem is that we don't have the strength to protect as a system, as a state, we don't have the strength, for example. to declare an exclusive economic belt, where Croatia saved billions a year where it could invest in islands in Dalmatia. So a number of problems are here as far as this child's allowance is concerned, we've given two amendments, I hope you'll respect them and accept them. We're talking here and, you're talking about kids with, like, four and more kids where you even set the censorship. I don't think it should be here, it should be universal law for all who have four and more children to have a child's allowance and that's why it could be found, so you could find the funds. I expect that in the future there will be measures demographically, that this movement of remains where we have presented a series of measures, not for us, but also for the government, that the government will accept them, among other things... that you will accept them for the sake of the survival of the people and the return of the people to two-thirds of the empty Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88019	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88020	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on child allowance. Second reading, P.Z. number 337. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the club of representatives of the Most. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us, Margareta Mađerić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, is respected, so we move with amendment number 1 of the club's representatives of independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88021	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept that amendment. The amendment is not accepted since the measure proposed in the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Child Supplements raises the income censorship from 50% to 70% of the budget base, resulting in the effect of a significant expansion of the circle of potential users of child benefits, as well as the optimal supplement in such a way that the right to an allowance will have 50% of the new child benefits for up to 150 thousand children, which will contribute to the improvement and raising of the social security of the family with dependent children. Following the above-mentioned change, which is expected by adopting the law in question, it aims to improve the status of a large number of future users of extras for children, and it represents a significant shift in ensuring more favourable conditions for child support and rearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88022	Who's going on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club? Comrade Chikotić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88023	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the Ministry, State Secretary. The data clearly show from 2015-2017 that a decline in the high number of children's allowance users has been seen. So in 2015, 2017 it was lost with, so the average number of children was 351340 and in 2017 291906 children. That's 59,000 children less, so there's no talking about your expansion of the base about those numbers you're talking about. And I call on fellow Members and colleagues of Parliament to vote in favour of the amendment because this Bill proposal, the Final Bill suggests that the family, according to a member of the household which has 534.14 kn, will have a children's allowance of 300 kuna, while that family that will have 2326 kn per household member will have 200 kuna. That's a very big difference. One-fifth of the population of the Republic of Croatia is at risk of poverty, and 200-300 thousand children are among them, according to a police prosecutor's report. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88024	Then let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm determining the amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's now go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88025	The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes not to accept that amendment. The amendment is not accepted since it proposes to increase percentage points to calculate the amount of child allowances for all three censor groups, thereby not producing a significant effect in terms of increasing the number of child allowances users, as well as an optimal allowance. In fact, an increase in the number of children's extras at this point is assessed as a priority measure in order to provide additional assistance to a larger number of families with children, and not necessarily the need to extend the number of children's extras, data on a significant reduction in the number of children's extras in the past period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88026	It's obvious. Does anyone from the Most Club want it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88027	I'd just like to repeat it once more, so we've suggested a spread of the tax base. So, since 2006, the basics for calculating the child's allowance have not changed. Since then, 11 years have passed, we have raised it from 50 to 70%, according to your final proposal of the Law, the MOST Club has proposed to rise to 100%, and for those most vulnerable with 534 kuna and 14 lip per member of the household, the child's allowance rises to 500 kuna, not 300 kuna. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88028	Let's also vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. Nor has this amendment received the required number of votes, so we are now going to vote on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 105 votes for and 9 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extras for Children. The HDZ Representatives Club has proposed the adoption of the next conclusion. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to prepare within 3 months of the date of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Extras for Children in relation to Croatian citizens who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia and who have the status of insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia according to the rules governing pension insurance. Please vote on the proposed conclusion. I find that most votes are 81 votes for and 1 vote against the conclusion that it was proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88029	We move to the next point and this is: - Proposal for a law on the protection of natural persons in relation to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences or the execution of criminal sanctions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 350; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, a respected secretary of state at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88030	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative, gentlemen of the Parliament. On 27 April 2016, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Directive 2016/680 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities in order to prevent the investigation and detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and on the free movement of such data. The Directive aims to lay down rules on the protection of natural persons, namely individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions, including the threat, protection against threats and public security and their prevention. Therefore, this Directive applies exclusively to the numbered purposes, so primarily to the work done by the police in their daily work. As a member of the EU, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to transpose the provisions of this Directive into national legislation. Given that the transposition of this Directive would require the amendment of several legal provisions, this proposal for a law intended in a unique manner to regulate this matter has been drawn up. The draft law lays down principles that ensure the achievement and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, in particular their right to the protection of personal data regardless of nationality or residence. Ensuring a consistent and high level of protection of individual personal data and facilitating the exchange of personal data between competent authorities of Member States is essential to ensure effective judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters. For this purpose, the level of protection of the rights and freedom of individuals in relation to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the proposed law should be the same in all Member States. The rules on the protection of natural persons shall apply to the processing of personal data by automated means as well as to the manual processing of data if personal data are stored or intended to be stored in the storage system. The law before you is intended to lay down specific rules for the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities, respecting the special nature of such activities. Those competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for, as I have already said, preventing criminal offences, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal sanctions, including protecting against public security threats. Where such a body processes personal data for purposes other than the purposes of this law, a general regulation on the protection of personal data which has been translated into the law before a short period of time shall apply. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the processing and exchange of personal data during activities carried out in the field of national security, carried out by bodies of a secure intelligence sector or defence sector. Furthermore, this law also states that any processing of personal data must be legal, fair, transparent in relation to the individual to whom it applies and only for the purposes of a specific law. Physical persons should be familiar with the risks, safeguards and rights related to the processing of their personal data and the way in which their rights are exercised. Specific purposes for the processing of personal data should be explicitly stated in the law itself. Personal data may only be processed if the purpose of the processing cannot reasonably be achieved by other means, in order to ensure that data are not kept longer than necessary, the controller should set time limits for erasure or periodic review, keep records of all categories of processing and give it to the supervisory authority on its request. The supervisory authority under this law is the supervisory authority that for the general regulation is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. Any competent authorities applying the provisions of this Act or the controllers shall allow the subject to exercise of the right without compensation and in an easily accessible manner, in particular the right to access personal data, their correction or erasure and the restriction of processing. Any refusal or restriction of access to personal data should, in principle, be communicated to the subject in writing. And also, this law prescribes the authority of the supervisory authority established by a special law governing the protection of personal data for the performance of the tasks of an independent competent authority to monitor the application of this law, so I repeat that it is the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data. The subject or persons authorised to represent him may object to the supervisory authority if they consider that they are subject to any right guaranteed by this law. The supervision of the proceedings carried out by courts and other judicial authorities when acting under their jurisdiction will be governed by a special law. For cases of infringement of the provisions of this law, criminal sanctions or fines are provided for. It's the shortest on the provisions of this law. This law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Following the said Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion establishing the bill you received in the proposed text. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88031	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and reported on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88032	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Respected initiators and promoters of this law, Your Honor, Secretary of State. This Law on the Protection of Physical Persons practically in Croatian legislation harmonizes with the European Directive on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent national authorities, all for the purpose of preventing the investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the free movement of such data. We all know that the protection of personal data as well as their secrecy is one of the personal freedoms and rights of individuals protected by both the Constitution and numerous other laws and public regulations. Lately, it has been evident that it is precisely protecting these personal rights and freedoms at the moment and in the focus of the EU and their directives. Globalisation, digitisation as well as numerous other processes that result in facilitating the movement of persons, goods and capital and an increasing and faster exchange of information causes the need for greater protection in the first order and protection of personal data. This concerns, in particular, criminal proceedings and all proceedings which are related to the same. In criminal proceedings in the face of investigative and investigative actions of the proceedings itself, judgments and potential enforcement of personal rights and freedoms of individuals to whom it is subject are very vulnerable and should be at a higher level of protection. This concerns first and foremost the protection of the confidentiality of personal data of a person, and indirectly his dignity before, during and after the procedure itself. This is about the transposition of the European Directive into Croatian legislation, i.e. meeting the obligations that our country has under the EU Treaty. This directive is of a somewhat limited importance, as it refers only to legal areas which are authorised by the EU authorities to regulate according to the current contracts. In particular, it shall not apply to the processing of personal data within an activity not covered by the scope of Union law, which would be activities related to national security, or the activity of security agencies. So this law has two meanings, one is formally legal, and the other is measuring, or materially legal. The formal legal transposition of the directive into existing laws and other regulations has led to a situation where amendments need to be made to several legislative regulations in order to prevent the situation being more transparent and also more unambiguously correct and in the direction of partial codification of the rules concerning this legal regulation. The other side is materially legal. This law prescribes, among other things, a higher level of rationality when using personal data, i.e. any processing must be legal, fair and transparent, and perhaps the most important need to be meaningful. It should only be used for the purpose of which it is designated for each specific legal operation. The purpose is determined by law, and each specific purpose must also be prescribed by special law. Here I can also say on the home Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which I am vice-president, we have discussed this law and, of course, supported its adoption, but we have raised some other issues concerning the protection of the rights of individuals where the debate pointed out that, under the obligation of the national authorities to support all legislation, that the media which continuously violates the rights of individuals are not obliged, so in the provision of Article 35. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees respect and legal protection for dignity, honor and reputation as fundamental human rights, which is not respected in real life and is a question of when respect for human dignity will become a standard of protection of human rights. I note, therefore, that the proposing representatives pointed out that they cannot regulate this regulation, nor determine it, so that until this issue has been regulated, this has also been highlighted through the Committee's debate, we call on the media to refrain from violating the rights of individuals relating to the protection of their personal data. The persons subject to this procedure should be familiar with the risks, safeguards and rights relating to the processing of data and the way in which their rights are exercised. Each personal data store must be suitable and necessary, i.e. no excess data must be collected, nor should they be stored longer than necessary. Any step towards raising standards in the protection of personal data, as well as the protection of entities in criminal proceedings, is important and should be accepted. Making a new law will certainly raise that standard. And I am glad that these issues are currently in the focus of our legislation and that this issue has been raised to a level of priority and, in this sense, in the name of the club, we support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88033	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88034	We are now going to vote on the debated points. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Physical Persons with regard to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purposes of heartening, research, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or enforcement of criminal sanctions, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 350. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- A proposal for a Law on the Protection of Physical Persons relating to the processing and exchange of personal data for the purpose of preventing, investigating, detecting or persecuting criminal offences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 102 votes in favour and 2 votes against it is the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88035	Now we will move to the next point, which is - the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Peace and the day of remembrance of Dr. Ivan Schreter. The applicant shall be a representative of Miro Bulje, based on Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the government delivered an opinion and submitted amendments. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88036	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's a respected colleague and colleague, it's my special honor to be able to present today in front of you as a motion for a decision to declare a national day and peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter explains and let me in this sense to brief you on the motives that led me to suggest making this decision. First of all, I found the greatest motive in the image and the work of the late Dr. Ivan Schreter, a great patriot, and above all, a peacemaker and a humanitarian. I believe that you are familiar with his life and his tragic fate, but for the sake of the Croatian public, and especially because of our young people who do not remember these events of the Homeland War in the 1990s, it would be good to remember only Dr. Schretter and his life trip. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter was a Croatian doctor, born December 21st, '51. He was born and born from Pakrac, as well as the head of the hospital there at the time. The people of that time remember him as a patriot, a humanitarian with express Croatian feelings, and he was a victim of the southern communist regime. As a patriot, he did not stay away from the early 90s when our homeland was created. He took the job, like many others, and of course the entire Croatian people. Finally, he took the high responsibility of the president of the regional crisis headquarters for Western Slavonia. With this duty, he tirelessly advocated peaceful solutions in an effort to avoid war and bloodshed. His efforts to bring peace with the Serbs, whom he called brothers, did not bear fruit. This Croatian, as we call Ghandi as some call him, had faith and peace in the common life of all the peoples living in the Republic of Croatia and tried to avoid war and bloodshed. I especially believe in this context to quote the words of Dr. Schreter, who was in the warstorm, spoke to the local Serbs, saying: "It is a shame and indelible for Pacrac to live together, you miners enter the door to a church you do not go to, you have destroyed St. Joseph, who passed both World War I and World War II. I want you to fence yourself with extremists, tell me who it is, and I want you to fence yourself with them. It's a crime to set an explosion under both public buildings and under our homes. We will not repay you in such a way. And you just fence yourself from those people who do it. His peace was retaliated by kidnapping, torture, and ended with his murder, a silence about his fate to this day. According to witnesses to that time and event, Dr. Šretter was captured at barricades in the village of Kukunjevac, August 18, 1991, then tortured near Logor Buče, then soon lost every trace, and the full truth of his fate remained unknown until today. d. Vladimir Solar, former director of Pakrac Hospital, testified about Dr. Schretter and he were captured and tortured, in a documentary, the peacemaker said that Dr. Schreter was creepy beat up, beaten up and tortured. I quote, he had a doctor. Solara, he had a left-hand fracture, a left-hand blade, and he was all blue. There were no bits of skin on the body that wasn't blue. I remember on the 6th of October,1991, I was told by Dr. Schreter was killed and we'll let you go whenever we want, solar remembered. He was the last person to see dr. Schretera, that was August 29, 1991. I further feel the need to point out at this point what Slavko Degorcija said in his book, which was then a mediator in all these things where the connection of our representative, Milorad Popovec, to the fate of Schreter. Namely, it is claimed that in the intermediated exchange of rescue Dr. Schreter in exchange for the release, that asked to... Two Serbian national doctors who have been taken prisoner by our defenders have been released, but ours have fulfilled their obligation and Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Schreter hasn't even been found today, so I believe that because of him, the man, the family, all of us, he's finally going to find out where Dr. Schreter's bones are. Ivan Schreter. I hope we get that answer, but at this point, we're not in the business of investigating fate as he's finished and who's to blame for what happened, which is not the exchange of Dr. Ivan Schreter. Speaking of his life and action, today we move the values he stood for and one of those values that he promoted by his own example was peace. In this place it is convenient to quote the words of Don Zivko Kustic, who described Dr. Schretter. As soon as a man treats the enemy with love, he is a supreme Christian martyr, he is objectively a saint. Let's stop here for at least a moment and think about those words that were spoken of by Dr. Ivan Schreter. I think these words should be a guideline to all of us, to future generations, and to those who will come after us. It is therefore appropriate to remember Dr. Šreter in the Croatian people also marks as a national day of peace, that every year at least one day we remember, we remind ourselves of the values of peacemaking, whose eternal symbol will be the character of Dr. A schretch who can be a role model of philanthropy and patriotism. From this point on, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their signature to support this decision. I don't know why this hasn't been debated in parliament in 27 years, nor will I get into it, but I know I suggested this on February 5th, five months ago. And if I had just received the government's opinion before I did, here's the minister, before this debate itself. Five months. We didn't get an opinion on Dr. Schretcher. I don't know why, I simply had to collect 30 signatures from the Rules of Procedure to get this on the agenda because, as it were, it would never have happened if the government were in 5 months. She wasn't ready to give her opinion. I urge everyone together to unanimously make that decision and declare the National Day of Peace and the Day of Remembrance of Dr. Schretter. And it's because of dr. Schreter and numerous peacemakers in these difficult times in the Republic of Croatia. Let this be a symbol of a man who was not only a peacemaker, at this point he is also missing, he is a former camper, he symbolizes Croatian patriotism, peacemaker, patriotism, humanity who did not hate, who wanted there to be no war, who wanted peace, and we need to endure it, we need to remember him every year and therefore I expect to accept this proposal unanimously. I will gladly listen to your debate and any useful suggestions we can put together in the final text of the decision. I can see now in the government's view that there is no 29 August, that there is no day of peace, that we can talk about the date, that I took that date because that date was no longer heard of it, but I agree that on the 18th when it was captured that day, on August 18th because I think it's important that there be a day here and Dr. Schretter, as head of the Western Slavonia crisis headquarters, one of the biggest officials if not the biggest official, who has been killed in this way, who has been put to peace, unfortunately then the Serbian forces have not agreed to it, have done huge crimes and it is time to remember these examples and follow them, not to have the squishy squishy in the clay, welcome them with the red carpet and throw the candles in front of them. We need him to be a role model for people like dr. Ivan Schreter, and many others, but let him be a symbol of peace and the meaning of the declaration, but I see that in the amendment, the government says it's just called Peace Day, not the day of memory of Dr. So what's the point of this proposal, then? The point of this proposal, along with a number of others, is that we will agree that all government and fellow MPs, that numerous Croats, mostly in the most difficult times, were prominent peacemakers, but Dr. Schreter was not adequately talked about as a symbol of peacemaking, a man who did not want war, a man who called Serbs from this territory to his brothers, his neighbors, his godfathers, a man who was tortured for it. And I think that we Croats, our future generations, have a role model, have something to be proud of and about the positive things in the Homeland War to have to talk about. If anyone deserves it, Dr. Ivan Schreter is at the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88037	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Slaven Dobrovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88038	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Bulj, first of all I congratulate on this initiative, I think it is indeed high time for the Croatian people to give merit to the answers, to acknowledge the work of Dr. Schretter. Namely, when we look at his messages, his speeches, his plots, his path to this crisis of times when he called for cooperation, for dialogue, for understanding, for co-existence, for humanity, and when we saw that the only answer was possible, so Serbian aggression, so the policy that was led, we know a lot about it, there was execution, so kidnapping, at the end of the execution of Dr. Schretter, then it's clear what character it was and it was really clear that the only outcome was the one that ended the war. I think this is a good way to give up a confession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88039	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88040	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, just a number of people who knew Dr. Šretera, his life trip, when we study and see how he acted, he is indeed a symbol of peacemaking, he is a Croatian Gandhi, he was a man who at the most difficult times, when the churches were raised up in the air, religiously, when the houses were raised, when buildings, institutions, he was ready to invite Serbs, who attacked local people, whether Serbian nationalities, their brothers, showed those who do so, that we would not return to them with the same measure, but that we would live there together. And that's from Veljka Djakula, who was then head of the SDSS, who was a peacemaker, which means the opposite side, and what did he get for the prize? He won the prize that we don't even know about their bones today. That's why I'm calling on people again, and I'm sorry he's not here in Parliament and my colleague Pupovac, if he knows any information, and I quote here Mr... to speak publicly and finally reveal the fate of Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88041	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is my colleague Bulj, so you have made a request to the Croatian Parliament to declare the day peace, but the important name is, the name is important, so the symbols are important. So I don't see why one day he would declare himself a day of peacelessness without the symbol of peace. And not just a day of peace, I think the name of Dr. Schretera is very important and teaching his work for school children, so I think that such symbols of peacemaking where children are taught one peace, one approach that has so far been unmarked in these areas, that symbols are important and that this is actually some rotten compromise between your proposal and the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88043	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88044	Well, it's precisely the meaning of my proposal that's why I called for peace. Besides being Dr. Crescent. Schreter was a senior official, who was a camper, was a prisoner, which has not yet been found, not yet known where he is, among the missing, his greatest work is peacemaking, and he is the motive for having in Croatia the Day of Peace and Dr. Ivan Schreter, along with a number of other people who deserve it, but I think he is a symbol, that he symbolizes peace at the most difficult times when Croatia literally burned its end. He was like the head of the West Slavonia crisis headquarters acting like a peacemaker. He didn't want guns, attacked, he called for peace. And he's the key motive and this government proposal where the government says it's just a day of peace without Dr. Ivan Schreter, this proposal of mine actually loses its meaning as a suggestion because here is the main person Dr. Ivan Schreter, who is a peacemaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88045	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88046	Dear Representative Bulj, it is nice to see that your initiative has collected a sufficient number of signatures to discuss it here in the Croatian Parliament. What grieves is yes, how much? You didn't get the government's opinion at all for four months, twice before that, I think you asked the prime minister questions about the fate of dr. Ivan Schreter, in no sentence did the prime minister refer to your inquiry at all, but spoke of other things that show that for some reason they do not want to give any answers. Now, according to this proposal, they don't even want his name mentioned. It's nice that you're willing to compromise, that you're ready to go and change the date itself in the direction in which the government proposes, but I absolutely agree with you that in order for this proposal to make sense and be complete, it must contain the name of this man and it must be the day of peace and the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88047	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88048	That's exactly how on many occasions the question is raised to the prime minister, which is why he should ask questions and ads about Dr. Šretera, but we see that in Croatia these people are forgotten, those people who symbolize the Croatian man, the Croatian soldier fought and who he fought in this Homeland War and how he was a peacemaker, he was a human peacemaker, and the peacemaker was Ivo Schreter. Downloading his name loses the meaning of this message. Along with numerous peacemakers who were in the area of the Republic of Croatia and Dr. Ivan Schreter is a symbol of peace. And I don't understand why the government hasn't answered my parliamentary questions before four months ago, which is why she didn't give an opinion until before the session on this proposal where, in essence, I agree with the date that we can, that the date of capture is essentially a more precise date, but that we are taking down Dr. President's name. Ivan Schreter, I can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88049	Thank you. Next is Ines Strenja-Linić, a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88050	Dear colleague Bulj, I'll read you what happened after colleague Ivan Schreter went to prison for a hunger strike. So to please Mr. Goran Babic, he then said, who called himself a Croatian writer and wrote in Sunday Dalmatia: How this medicine obviously does nothing, nor does Jožek, nor does a word, so the only cure is a black country and a green humak. It was published in Free Dalmatia in '87. A year, and in '91. Serbs kidnapped and killed Dr. Ivan Schreter. The only question is why today's ruling does not want to support this day's name as well. John Schreter and who exactly is this concession today? That's the question. Once we know that, we'll also know who's responsible for the disappearance and murder and we don't know until today where dr. Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88051	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. I'm sorry, the answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88052	Comrade Linic, I consider that without the name of Dr. The shretcher on this day is essentially losing the meaning of this proposal. I don't believe it, and I can suspect that there's some compromise on this coalition partners thing not to be, that it's not called Peace Day and dr. Ivan Schreter. Is not answering two questions which I am as a representative in the Parliament and 4 months not to get an opinion from the government on this proposal is primarily under a large questionnaire. Once again, I accept this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a minister, to be the date of August 18th, not the 29th, when every clue is lost and we can discuss it and I can accept the proposals, but not to mention Dr. Schreter, I can't really accept this as a proposal because the meaning of this proposal is lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88053	The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, without diminishing anyone's contribution to peacemaking, etc. Ivan Schreter, I think we have a lot of peacemakers who deserve to be mentioned. Here's to say my fellow citizen Joseph Reichl Kier, head of the Osijek Police Department, who has also tragically ended, I think he is a kind of embody of peace. And when we talk about people all over Croatia who wanted peace, who worked in peace, and many paid with their heads for it, I don't think there's any way we can not mention Reich Kiera and Dr. Schreter, but a lot, a lot of other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88055	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88056	I'm just saying here, so a number of peacemakers, we can list them, which in that time in your neighborhood, were in my neighborhood peacemakers and didn't want to be a conflict, a war conflict, but to be resolved by a peaceful path. But really, I've been motivated by dr. Schreter. After a number of questions and silences, I don't know why they kept their mouth shut about dr. Schreter, however, the man was a key person of Western Slavonia, still wanted peace, urged people of Serbian nationality to fence their brothers, not to commit crimes, that we would not return, at the most difficult moments. So he's a symbol, Dr. Let all peacemakers and the day of memory be in his name and thus remember other peacemakers who have acted throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia to the pride of all of us who hold to patriotism, patriotism and humanity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88057	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88058	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bulj, the victim of Ivan Schreter is certainly magnificent in those times because being a peacemaker at a time when Serbian terrorism only shot at us, he was not trying at all to create conditions to create a modern Croatian democratic state. However, even after this proposal has passed, the stain at the Croatian Parliament will remain a stain on what needs to be clearly said that the charge of the circumstances of the disappearance of Dr. Ivan Schreter, after his arrest, was very focused on one of our members, on Mr. Milorad Pupovac. He's not here today, he's not in this debate to say what the circumstances were, which was his role, which would be his role when he casts his vote in this House, if he shows up, determines what message he sends, whether it's a message of peace or covering up a part of the war.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88059	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88060	So we all expect, who were participants in this time to get answers, since Mr. Degorcija, as then in charge of exchange and cooperation with one side and on the other, warring mention of this Milorad Popovec, is of course expected arrangements and help to explore where Dr. Ivan Schreter is, but for now we have only a silence from our colleague. Of course we expect this problem to be solved, to be found and found by Dr. Schreter and to know where his grave is, to know where the bones of his family and all the people are. But for now, we still have a veil of silence. At that time, the Croatian side released two Serbian prisoners who were captured by our own, unfortunately Dr. Ivan Schreter, as Milorad Pupovac promised, was not returned. That's how it's listed in Mr. Degorija's book, and we haven't received any opinion from Mr. Pupovac yet, and we should.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88061	Thank you. We will now return to our point on the motion for a decision to declare the National Day of Peace and the Day of Remembrance of Dr. Ivan Schreter. Does the committee reporter want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Honorable Defence Minister Tomo Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88063	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. On the basis of a proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it proposes to the Croatian Parliament, with appropriate amendments, to accept the proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Peace and the day of remembrance of Dr Ivan Schreter. Dr Ivan Šreter, a doctor from Pakrac and president of the Western Slavonia Regional Crisis Staff in 1991, is a prominent Croatian patriot, a victim of the non-democratic Yugoslav regime and a victim of the Homeland War. His public action in the extremely difficult moments of the attack on the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia remained observed after promoting peace, preparedness for dialogue and promoting the co-existence of the Croatian people and of all national minorities. He resisted the great Serbian aggression by calling on the rebels and locals to reject any form of extremism. Many individuals, Croatian defenders, officials, humanists and civil servants, as well as the entire Croatian people, contributed to the creation of an independent in sovereign Croatia as well as to the defence of the Homeland War. Therefore, in determining the special mentions and days of memory, despite the heroism and the sacrifice of an individual, it could only be extremely appropriate to point out one person directly. Following this, the government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the declaration of 18 August to the National Day of Peace, and to submit two amendments to the draft decision in question. The first amendment proposes to declare the National Day of Peace. The second amendment proposes the declaration of the National Day of Peace on August 18th, the date of August 18th is proposed for the reason that it is unequivocal that on that very date in 1991, Dr. Ivan Schreter was kidnapped after which there was torture and lost every trace, while there was no reliable record of his day-to-day fate. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the National Peace Day with the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88064	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first is Ines Strenja Linic, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88065	Dear Minister Bear. It is truly surprising that the Government has not accepted the proposal of colleagues of Bulja and this law to call this day Dr. Ivan Schreter, because of his advocacy of co-existence without violence and which is why he became someone who was killed by aggressors. But what the government needs to know is that it was the highest government official who died in the Homeland War. And that's why this day should be named after Dr. Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88066	Thank you. Next replica, respected representative Slaven Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88067	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I also consider the mention of the name Dr. Schretter and how important. So this symbol is really paid by a very large price, let's just say that there were, by chance, more people on the other side who were like Dr. I'm sure many victims would have been prevented by Schreter. So history would go differently, and this is how we have what we have. So this symbol and how important it is, and I really don't think it's right to leave out the name of dr. Schretter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88068	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, he will speak with respect, and I beg your pardon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88069	Thank you. My dear Minister, I can see that you are not the most comfortable in defending this government proposal either. In fact, we can't figure out why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is bothered by the name of Dr. John Schreter, and why wasn't it Peace Day and the Day of Remembrance of that honorable man who stood for peace? Which, as counterpart Srenja-Linic said, was the top government official to be killed during the Homeland War. There's no reason for such a government decision. I understand that neither you nor the most comfortable were sent here as a Croatian defender to try to defend it, but it is indefensible and cannot be defended and it will be a great shame if the government erases the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter. We don't even know about his bones, and now he wants his name erased.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88070	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative, Miro Bulj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88071	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, on behalf of the Government you read the opinion, you feel as Croatian defenders what Ivan Schreter was and many other peacemakers. But dr. Ivan Schreter, was the largest official of the Republic of Croatia to finish this way. He's a symbol of peace. I don't see any reason why the government hasn't given an opinion on this proposal since 5 February, almost 5 months? But thanks to the signatures of his fellow MPs, this law is now passed. It was long overdue to talk about Dr. Ivan Schreter. The truth of the Homeland War. I repeat, there were a number of people, citizens, police officials, military, civilian structures that were peacemakers. But if anyone is a symbol of peace, it's Dr. Ivan Schreter. What bothers the government is that we have the Day of Peace and Remembrance of Dr. Ivan Schreter as a symbol, like the Croatian Gandhi? There's no reason. We're not diminishing the value of those colleagues who mention colleagues now in the other lower ones, we're not diminishing, but in fact, this is the truth about the Homeland War. The truth about the Croatian man, whom the Serbs were not enemies, but the friends he called not to war. But it ended the way he ended up. And I don't see any point in what the government is opposed to? I agree with the date, no matter what 29 is. August 8, for the last time seen beat-up gnarled Dr. Schreter. But on August 18th, it's August 18th, he's been arrested, captured, and I agree to that date as a national, and I'll accept that. But I cannot accept that the motive of the peacemaking proposal in Croatia is deleted by Dr. Ivan Schreter, the biggest official, so if you will, so he was your founder of the HDZ in Baraka, he doesn't have to be plus a minus. So what is the government ashamed of? He was a crisis chief, but he was a peacemaker. Well, both left and right will agree here, everyone, that he was a peacemaker. I don't see the reasons of the minister as a Croatian defender, I respect and respect you, but I really don't see the symbol of peace in Croatia being Dr. Ivan Schreter, 27 years old, will now be the 27th anniversary of the 28th anniversary in 2 months to mark it as a day of peacemaking. That our children also have to learn about the Croatian Gandhi, that we are telling the truth about the Homeland War, the truth about the Croatian soldier, about peacemaking, not to throw flowers in front of those who called in the Glina that the Serbian people were calling for slaughter, to commit crimes at the great borders of Serbia, that's what we do. The truth is, it's dr. Ivan Schreter, peacemaker. And I cannot, as a promoter, who was my motive and I trust you fellow MPs, defenders from the left, from the right, from the center, you who are patriots, patriots, patriots, humanity, we are erasing in this proposal the name of the greatest Croatian official, doctor, peacemaker man, dr. Ivan Schreter. I can't agree to that. I can't agree to anything else. On the date, any date you've given on behalf of the Government, I agree, no matter how many months this proposal has been given, but I cannot agree to it erases the day of peace and the day of memory of Dr. Schretter, because he's Dr. Schretter. Šreter peacemaker and this should be written in Croatian history and the symbol of Croatian peace is Dr. Ivan Schreter for all those peacemakers who aren't between us and the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88072	Thank you. Now we'll open the debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, will be spoken by a respected representative of Ines Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88073	I would like to thank my colleague, the President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. I liked talking about this topic today on behalf of the club, and I was actually wondering how to explain it and why it is important to declare the day of Croatian Peace and the day of Dr. Ivan Schreter. And why won't I talk today about a colleague who studied with me who died on the first day of the Storm, a colleague of Dr. Ivko Jurica and why I won't talk about my colleague, today Professor Aldo Ivancic, who was captured in '91. And spent the rest of his life in a camp. And these are the colleagues I studied with, and I survived happily, but we were all just doctors. There was also a man who was not only a doctor, who did all he could to survive co-existence in a very difficult area during the Homeland War and who was manly killed, who was the highest official of the Republic of Croatia, who was killed in the Homeland War, and that is one and the strongest reason why this man, while he was a peacemaker, deserves to have his day and to have that day tied to the day of the Croatian Peacekeeper. And I'm not going to talk about his life, I'm going to read you the speech that killed dr. Ivan Schreter, a speech he gave on May 30, '91. A year, to see how this man thought. And he said: “We are here today in front of the congregation of Pakrac, gathered together, to be seen in this place, in this beautiful Croatia and around the world that Pakrac can never be one - minded, that he does not belong to anyone but to all of us. To see that we Croats, Czechs, Italians, Hungarians and Serbian brothers,...," the Serb brothers always said, "...all people of goodwill equally want peace, equality and happiness in the papal municipality. We are here to show that we do not agree with past events, we do not agree with the way the bodies of the congregation work, neither we nor the vast majority of this municipality are satisfied with the results of the elections but we are here to say that we respect legality and legality. We want to get rid of the abandoned pipes, the cubes, to move our army, we want to be removed from the careers who are willing to sell us for their careers, so to speak. The province and Serbia that Pakrac will never belong to. We were wondering what some Krajina would bring us, we're never territorial, nor cultural, nor civilized in the Knin area, we've always been here. Whoever came to us is welcome. Last year, 300 years have been celebrated since the escape of the Serbian people to this area from the enslaved parts, where they were welcomed kindly and friendlyly and we lived with them relatively well. We invite them from this assembly to further peaceful co-existence, to receive tools and jobs, if there is a job there will be good life, avoid tutors from Knin and Belgrade, sell you fake tutors for small money and you will continue to live with us here. We have never threatened you, and we will never threaten you, stay out of madness, put your representatives in all bodies, and we will democratically discuss every problem. The desert pipes, the mines, the desecration of our sanctity, we will achieve nothing. And we could plant explosives under your house, but that doesn't occur to us. The shame is indelible for Pacrac to live together and you're blowing the door of a church you're not going to, you've destroyed our St. Joseph, who has passed both World War I and World War II, fence against extremists, we will not return to you in such a way and you will show who you are and fence yourself from them. Stand clear of docking and stealth. Because if you in the papal municipality want to see the villages of Okucan or the remote islands all the way to Stara Gradiška, and we will also ask that Gareshnica and Kutina join us, you cannot overcome our will, to the co-existence of our democracy, no matter how many villages join the papal municipality. And then you'll have to talk to us, without us, you can't, and we don't want to without you. We want to be together under the Croatian flag both in Czech and under Italian and under your Serbian, but do not force our Chetnik characteristics on the municipality. None of us were in control, cooperating, propagating the Ustasha movement. Stay away from Chettice and we'll live peacefully. Friends, you've seen past events in Pakrac, they've brought only evil to us, we've lost jobs in businesses, external patients in hospitals, we've lost tourists who were rare before. We'll lose everything we can lose. We do not sow fear from here, but call for peace, for co-existence. If there's anything wrong with saying but get the dynamite out of the guns, get the tanks off the street 'cause they won't solve anything. This is Croatia, it was and it will be." This is why Dr. Devereaux was killed. Ivan Schreter. I ask you all together to support this proposal and that the Day of Croatian Peace bear the name of this honorable man, Ivan Schreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88074	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ljubica Maksimchuk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88075	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a commendable proposal to make a decision to declare the National Day of Peace in memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. It is indisputable that Dr. We should pay our respects to Ivan Schreter, and we know, unfortunately, that his remains have not been found, so the declaration of a national day in memory of this great man is the least we can do. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter is a peacemaker who had faith in peace and the common life of all the peoples in the Republic of Croatia. For his life, he stood for peaceful solutions and began to avoid war and bloodshed and, as a physician, before and during the war, he treated everyone regardless of religion and nation. These are all short features of this great man, born in Pakrac in 1951, who was last seen alive on August 18, 1991, when the Chetniks captured him at barricades in the village of Kukunjevac. After that, he was transferred to a house near the evil camp of Buče, where eyewitnesses reportedly were tortured. Unfortunately, to date, the day of his death and the place of his remains are unknown. Therefore, a more appropriate date for the day of remembrance of this great man would be August 18th, since that was the day he was last seen alive, when he was deprived of liberty and captured by a great Serb aggressor. A man who believed in peace and co-existence, who healed all men regardless of faith and nation, a man everyone speaks well of, whom his end today mentions and tells of his life and work. From his biography, we can see that even as a boy he dreamed of becoming a doctor after a high school of physiotherapy, he went to Zagreb for a study of medicine that he himself financed by working through a student service and then returned and employed at the Lipish hospital as a doctor of general practice. He had just been working in that place in the mid-1980s, and in 1984, he arrived in the media for the so-called '80s. The case "officer" because Stevan Masterovic was put in a file by a retired officer instead of a retired officer. We all know who and what time it was then, it was all Croatian and, of course, punishment for so-called punishment. The crime committed by a Libyan doctor was 50 days in prison but was changed to 10 days by Dr. Schreter strike hunger because he was gunned down and injured by the verdict and from that he tried to answer Cardinal Kuharic himself. After serving the sentence for the above, he returns to the Libyan hospital and becomes the director and joins HDZ on the eve of democratic change, actively engages in the process of creating the Republic of Croatia, and with the beginning of Serbian aggression on the Republic of Serbia willingly accepts being president of the Western Slavonia crisis headquarters. His efforts to bring peace with the Serbs he called brothers did not bear fruit and it is known who captured him, tortured him, tried to save him but unfortunately failed and today we do not even know where his remains are. Oh, uh, uh, In 2008, the documentary "The Timer, the Peacemaker" was also made. Now the late professor. Tomislav Ivancic and Don Zivko Kustic even said that Dr. Schreter is to be declared a blessed man and a saint because he has the traits of a Christian martyr. There are several books of which the name “It Was Not In vain ” describes all the ways in which Dr. Schretter was imprisoned in Butch or Kusonjam where he passed an unprecedented torture. It tried to get him out through international factors, but unfortunately it was unsuccessful. The best and the most obvious maybe who Dr. Šretter speaks of his speech, which he read before me, and she reads the distinguished representative of Ines Strenja-Linić as of 30 May 1991 in Pakrac on Statehood Day, and from which I will state also one part: "We are gathered here today to see that Pakrac can never be one-minded, that he belongs not to anyone in particular, but to all of us, to see that both we and Croats, Czechs, Italians, Hungarians and Serbian brothers, all the people of good faith equally want peace, equality and happiness in the papal municipality. I want to get rid of the abandoned pipes, the cubes, the army, we want to be cut off by careers who are willing to sell us for their careers, so to speak. The landscape and the Serbs the Pakrac will never belong to. We never belonged territorially, culturally, or civilizedly to the Knin area. We've always been here. Whoever came to us is welcome. Last year, 300 years have been celebrated since the escape of the Serbian people to this area from the enslaved parts, where they were welcomed with a mild and friendly, we have lived with them relatively well, we invite them from this assembly to a further peaceful co-existence. Let the tools and the work be taken, if there's a job, there'll be a good life. Stop the tutors from Knin and Belgrade, you'll be sold by fake tutors for small money, and you'll still live here with us. We've never threatened you, and we'll never threaten you. Let go of your madness, give your representative all the bodies, and we will democratically discuss every problem. The barrels, the mines, the... Our sanctity will achieve nothing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we could plant explosives under your house, but that doesn't occur to us. It's a shame you're indelible for Pacrac to live together, and you're blowing the door to the church you're going to. You're destroying St. John's Day. Joseph, who passed both I and II. World war, fence against extremists, we will not return to you in such a way, and you will show who they are, fence yourselves from them, avoid attaching and ending. We want to be together under the Croatian flag both under the Czech Republic and under the Italian Republic and under your Serbian flag, but do not force our Chetnik traits. None of us were undermining, cooperating, propagating the Ustasha movement, keeping away from Chettice, and we'll live peacefully. Friends, you've seen past events in Pacrac. They only brought us evil, we lost jobs, we lost businesses, we lost external patients in hospitals, we lost tourists who were rare before, we lost everything that could be lost. We do not sow fear from here, but call for peace and co-existence. If something's wrong, let it be said, but let the dynamite, the guns, get off the streets because they won't solve anything. This is Croatia, it was and it was, and there will be this man, who called everything brothers and friends, who called for co-existence and peace they tortured, the man who did not harm anyone, helped everyone, and only wanted an independent and independent Croatia. No wonder it was mentioned that he was a blasphemer and a saint beside the torment he endured because of his vision and ideal for Croatia, although he called for peace, the rebel Serbs sought to remove Dr. Schretter, not only from the political scene, but they tried to deprive him of his life. They threw dynamite at his house in 1991, and they shot him through a window in the middle of the session, secretly followed him, intimidated him, provoked him, lurked him, and came to arrest him at work, and he knew that he had to treat them human and friendly. He said that most of these people helped and expressed hope that he would not be decapitated, but he was aware of what all the frames had done. But in order to harm a man like him who didn't crush an ant, he couldn't believe it. But he didn't ignore that possibility, and once he said, "I can talk to them, I'll go talk to them, but the question is whether I can achieve what I want." He refused to believe that those to whom he had done good could repay his evil. Well, that's the kind of man Dr. Schreter. It is well pointed out that after a brief peace and order held by police in Pakrac, the rebel local Serbs again began to terrorise Croats and the non-Serb population to provoke conflict and give rise to JNA intervention, and since then the house has been dr. Shreter was guarded by civilians, most of them by members of the Paki HDZ. The rebel Serbs warmed up everything for war during April and May. They threw dynamite at houses of prominent Croats, HDZ members, the Catholic Church and chapels. In the end, here's what I'd like to point out. Schreter was a great man, a peacemaker, a patriot, a doctor who treated everyone regardless of faith and nation. Although still perhaps not well-known to the wider Croatian public, in time, little by little has become a model of humanity and worship for the newer Croatian history. So far we have repayed him in a way that carries his name to the square in Pakrac, where he was born, the Department of Pakrac Hospital also bears his name, the competition for the best new Croatian word. That's why we at the HDZ Club have no doubts, we support the national peace day being marked in memory of this great man who was abducted by a large Serb aggressor on August 18th. Therefore, August 18th is marked in the TV calendar and always shows a brief contribution in view of the date, both historians and residents of the area from which Dr. Schreter. What we know for sure is that he's Dr. Schreter was killed in captivity or succumbed to injuries since he was diabetic, and the drugs were not given. It probably happened between August 29th when Dr. Solar last seen on October 6th when Dr. Solara, one of the leaders of the Serbian rebellion in western Slavonia, said that Dr. Schreter's out. He was a great Croatian patriot, aware of responsibility, not only for his city, but for all Croatian citizens, regardless of religion and nationality. He tried everything to avoid war, had a vision of co-existence in Croatia's new and just. So far it has been decorated with the monument of the Homeland War, the Order of Peter Zrinski and Frana Krsta Frankopan, has been awarded the Lipik City Prize for Lifetime Work, by the decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the rank of Colonel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, and we support the death of the National Day of Peace, with the proposed amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic, and I would like to conclude my presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club with a quote from the Bible: "Blessed peacemakers, they will be called to the sons of God, mildly persecuted for righteousness, their Kingdom of Heaven."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88076	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the re-respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88077	Thank you very much. Comrade Maximchuk, here as far as the HDZ Club is concerned, we expect support. You were saying that Dr. Schretter is not well known enough, and that is precisely why this proposal is and we do not see any reason why, to be 18 August, that the date should first be discussed instead of 29 August, when it was last seen, but I also agree in good faith with this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I support that the date of peace, the days of peace and the day of memory of Dr. Schretter. Ivan Schreter will be on August 18th. However, from your speech, you said very little mention and very little is known. Yeah, well, that's why we can't support this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's amendment to get the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter in the proposal. So the government of the Republic of Croatia is looking for, by its amendment, one I accept to be on August 18th on the day of Dr. Schretter and others can't accept where Dr. Sreter's name is deleted. Shretcher in the amendment, where it's deleted. So the government of the Republic of Croatia demands that it be called Peace Day. And the proposal, me as a proposer whose motive was Dr. Schreter, whom you were now referring to, was to be a day of peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter, for all peacemakers, as the greatest official, a man who was a peacemaker, a man to whom he is in Free Dalmatia, I will repeat my colleague Strenju-Linic, where journalist Goran Babic wrote at the time that his only cure was a black country and an earth humak. In his peace, he fought, his peace this way terrorized man. The man is a peacemaker, the man called his neighbours Serbs to his brothers, sisters, and you said well everything here except one, that the government is asking for an amendment to delete the names of the day of the memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter and he's the motive of this proposal. And everything you've said by dr. That's true, Mr. Schreter, but that's why you're erasing it in the amendment. I believe that the minister on this amendment is two, I believe, because he is a motive, a peacemaker, the largest Croatian official then, Croatian, the first president of the Republic of Croatia, Dr. Franjo Tudjman was Ivan Schreter in Western Slavonia, promoter of peace, promoter of everything you said, we don't know about his bones. But for 4 months, once again, I thank all the MPs who signed it, I didn't get an opinion for 4 months. An hour before this debate came the government's opinion, an hour ago. And I believe that we fellow MPs vote on our conscience this time, not on the government's orders, and that the name remains in this motion the day of peace and the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter, on behalf of all those peacemakers who have been in Croatian history and in the future, who have passed on to our children that there have been people who have been peacemakers, that there have been people who have opposed great Serbian aggression in a peaceful way, who have called their neighbours who are other national minorities, their religions have called on their brothers, but those thugs we welcome with a red carpet in the Republic of Serbia can be a disgrace and a bad sign of how Croatian politics is being led. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter is a symbol of peace, peace, humanism, a man who must be on a pedestal, a man that children must learn about from the first grade of primary school, as a man of tolerance, a human man of peace in the most difficult moments as they blew up churches, while religious characteristics were lifted, while buildings, houses, he called for peace. He invited these people to his brothers. Where did dr. Ivan Schreter? But the most painful thing that bothers me is the name in this proposal. Ivan Schreter, here, as chief official, is the man on whom the HDZ, the first president of the Republic of Croatia and the first president of the HDZ Dr. Francis Tudjman, who had authority in Western Slavonia. He was a commissioner, he was head of the crisis staff. And the greatest official in the Homeland War to end this way. We can't be ashamed of him. We can't be ashamed of him. We can't be ashamed of him. Let's back up dr. Schretter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88078	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88079	I just wanted to warn my colleague, I couldn't replicate my colleague, she was talking about how unfortunately Dr. Bull's name was. Ivan Schreter is a little famous in the Croatian public and you are going to correct this proposal, I would say a historical injustice and that we all here support this day as a day of peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter is about to mention his name and here in the Croatian Parliament, and here we see that the government doesn't want it, we don't know what the reasons, I can see that it's not pleasant for Minister Bear to defend it, that it's not pleasant for a colleague to expose it here, talk about the contributions of Dr. John Schreter about how in the most difficult times a man stood up for peace, it's easy to give a speech like this now, but at that time, when someone raises churches, houses in the air say this way, it should be a particularly big man. And then that the government doesn't want to mention this man's name asked you to remove the name Dr. Ivan Schreter is something that is absolutely inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88080	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88081	No matter what, I accept everything that my colleagues have said so far at the pay phone, but I can't, that I am the last person in the world, to take this proposal down, that I am the last act, I can't take down the name of dr. Ivan Schreter, from this proposal, which was my motive and motive for all Croatian patriots, all Croatian peacemakers, humanity, he is the motive of future generations, he must be described in textbooks as we treat our neighbors regardless of color, race, faith, I see no reason why this man at the moment when he is erased, strips. Well, if it were my last act, I wouldn't do it. The last act of my life, I as a proposing cannot remove the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter because he'd be the greatest hypocrite to appear on the political scene if he'd taken down a proposal that we all call upon to deserve Dr. John Schreter's name to mention, that he is unknown and that we are raising Dr. Shretcher as a peacemaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88082	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Petar Skoric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88083	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, first of all I thank you for this initiative, it is commendable and sad and sad that it did not come sooner. We also have the Day of Croatian Defence, so he is not named after a single giant who died heroically, etc., no one disputed the role of promoter of the peacemaker Dr. Shretera, no one is questioning it, I say I wish it had been before because as a nation, as a country, we have a problem with lack of self-respect, unity of the nation in the marking of gratitude to the people who participated in the creation of the state is measured and we see that we do not have an equal relationship. I also support returning on August 18th when he was last seen. Maybe the government wanted to send a message with this, on August 18th is the beginning of the Balvan revolution and we know what symbolized it and we know in this way that we will honor everyone who was peacemakers, who opposed war events and everything that was happening and in this way we practically best evaluate memories of others. Schreter and all those who fought the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88084	The answer of the esteemed representative Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88085	Thank you very much. My colleague Škorić, I agree with the date to be the date when, as a promoter, I accept the obituaries because I believe that the argument is ok, regardless of what was last seen on August 29th, his colleague saw him beaten up, tortured and more trails for him are lost but of course everything in the process should be proven and expected to find a bar where his remains are located, that those who participated in that time would talk and say it. However, I cannot agree to this second amendment by the Government, not to mention the name of Dr. Schretter and he's a motif as a peacemaker of this proposal. And it's a shame, I agree with you that it has not been this proposal so far, and that is why I expect you to vote on our conscience. He can't now once after four months. The government says when I've collected the signatures, delete the name Dr. Schretter. Well, I agree with this proposal date, but I can't be the last one here, my colleague Skoric, you're a defender, there are defenders on the right and the left, so I can't just get in this proposal that's my motive, to have peace, my motive is peacemaker Dr. Shretch for everyone else as the biggest official at the time that ended this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88086	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88087	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Bulj, when I said he was unknown, I told the general Croatian public that Dr. Schreter. Pacraca, a paparazzi valley, of course it's very famous for all of Slavonia. But what do we want? We would like to commend this initiative of yours, which I have commended, which I have also praised in this debate, and in this debate, I would like to give recognition to his sacrifice and especially to his support for peace. We all agree on who Dr. Ivan Schreter, however, politicisation is the least Dr. Šreter wanted at this time, we know what he stood for, he stood for peace, so the most important thing would be to find the remains of the dead, to bury him with such dignity as he and many Croatian defenders, many Croatian giants deserve. I sincerely hope we do it soon, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88088	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88089	I'll start from where you said politicization, not my intention to politicize, my intention is what you said in your speech, to spread the public, to make future generations, students, to know about peace in Croatia. And this symbol of peace in Croatia is Dr. Ivan Schreter. This is not even politicization, this is a proposal that came from me in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I see these things being forgotten. These are positive things in the homeland war, positive things about humanity that didn't look at people by faith, who wasn't blaspheming, who wasn't doing crimes, but a man who was a positive, humanist, peacemaker first of all, and that's why it was a day of peace because man was a peacemaker. It's proven, it's visible from his speeches in these most difficult times, it's easy now to speak to us here, easy, and convince his speeches, but he was saying it at the moment when everything was burning, when the tanks were on the streets, when people were dying, losing their heads. He went among the Serb population and assured them not to go to war, that they could resolve peacefully together, that they could create a better, fairer Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88090	Thank you very much. Now we'll go to the next club of representatives and that's the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Predrag Matic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here are a few days before this item on the agenda, I was thinking about this proposal and finally when the Croatian Government's proposal on this topic arrived, I was surprised to see it coming. First of all, I want to say that I commend the initiative, I commend the phenomenally reasoned ones that went along with this law, but believe me, Miro, you have achieved in this work, and you have achieved the power to do this and win because you have told your colleague Škorić, everyone should be ashamed that no one has thought of it for 27 years. And why wouldn't they support it? We're not against it, but we wouldn't support it if it was called a single person's day of peace I'm going to tell you from a personal example and here I believe the minister is meeting with it every day, so you know. So when they ask me, say, who was the greatest hero in Vukovar, I, like, shake the treasure of Zadar Marko Babic, Sinisa Glavasevic. However, my parents, friends, family members rightly come to me and tell me what is wrong with the Soljić brothers, what about the Zivkovic brothers, what about the Hawks, Sokoli, Poljak and Djerek? And really that man can't tell you what's going on with Andrija Maric, they're people in the same class, in the same category as those before, but you can't count it all, you can't say it all. The peacemaker says, what a wonderful word it is, it's two words of peace and a creator, so the one who makes peace, who makes peace, and you've really given yourself the effort and this explanation of the role, about the works of Dr. Ivan Schreter is really awesome. Who are those who are against the peacemakers? So at the beginning of the war these were two categories of people, political fucks and those who were according to our colleague, Anto Kovacevic, who was in the interest of hunting. So that's what they are. Makers before the war, no one's bums, and now they're... and people like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they were disturbed by the peacemakers, and in my opinion, the peacemakers are the people who get the most injured by civilian victims as the greatest victims of the war, the ones who get the most hurt. They don't answer to anyone, extremists on either side. The one who makes peace prevents business. We could say that soldiers are also soldiers, Croatian defenders are peacemakers, in just one other context and the sense of the word, and today is not about them. Why did I want to say a few words why not tie to one name? Because here, that experience taught me, as I've listed. In between, it should be said that otherwise there is a day of peace initiatives organised by the Association of Women in the Homeland War, which has been marked for several years on January 18th, but it is an initiative of the associations, and for such important things the state should still lead the main word, associations are associations, but the state is above all. Here's why not that one name? Because I'm saying, as I listed to you with these Vukovar defenders, that's how it would be. So a few names that came to mind during these days when I was thinking about peacemakers. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter, it's been said a lot about this, so I'm not going to take up your time right now, but Joseph Ryhl Kier, the symbol of the peacemaker, went to... to calm the rebel Serbs and then the absurd killed him by the Croats on that road because it did not suit them to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vlado Gotovinac, who gave the speech, which is the best political speech, the best speech that could be heard in the history of the Croatian state, Zivko Juzmašić the deceased, the hero of the Suez Neretva, the General of the Croatian Army from the Homeland War, which, for those who are less aware, therefore down the space below Karlovac according to the river where Croatia is the smallest, is there thanks to him, thanks to Sinisha... The mixed committees were organised in which Serbs chose the Croats they believed, and the Croat Serbs they believed and there that almost, with some minor incidents, the bullet was not fired. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if Croatia had choked there under Karlovac, believe me, there would be no legendary defence of Zadar, no September war in Sibenik, no defence of Dubrovnik, because simply up to that number of Croats. The soldiers couldn't even make it. Then the late Cardinal Franjo Kuharic who, according to the TBF song, but he was the opposite, did not bless the guns. Kid, I can tell you this kid because he's a lot younger than I am than Marian Losin, a boy from the Far Away who witnessed personal rape and murder more than half of his family, and today he's one of the biggest promoters of peace, non-violence and co-existence in this space. Simo Rajic, there was a colleague of ours, was vice president of the Parliament who wanted to calm down the situation, so he ended up how? He was rejected by both Croats and Serbs, he was no good to anyone. Free Budak, representative of that original HHO, not this Mamic HHO, also forgotten and thrown into history. We can also mention Milan Levar, who was insidiously murdered only because he did not want to deny the crimes that were unfortunately committed on our part. Then I would like to highlight some associations that had many prominent individuals such as the Bed of Love, the Croatian Background Front, Apple. We must also mention foreign peacemakers Dr. Aloyz Mok, the Austrian foreign minister who wanted to send peacekeeping troops to Croatia, who knows, if they had listened to him maybe the war wouldn't have happened. Then the European observers who the Serbs brought down at Varazdin, who disappeared in their desire to contribute to peace in our area. And we must be correct and mention some people on the other side of the border who have been having a hard time going through wartime in Croatia like Natasa Kandic, who I hear is also a candidate for the Nobel Prize, Sonja Biserko Association Women in Black. Therefore, Miro and fellow Mosto, don't take this as a political defeat or anything, though. You were able to achieve something, and the government, I believe, is something in these arguments that I also made that the government was also handling these arguments, so dr. Ivan Schreter is probably the most prominent, but many others won't agree, there's Ryhl Kier, there's all those I've counted. But if the government proposes that the day of August 18th be that day, and he is tied to Dr. John Schreter and the day of his captivity, why not it be a day, here I even put perhaps a year of peacemaking, but if the Day of Peace is declared, we can mention on that day all or most of these people who are peacemakers, talk about them, talk about their works, because, finally, if we do not honor them, it remains what my colleague Maximchuk stole, which I also wrote three days ago, the beautiful Holy Gospel of Matthew, which is the only comfort and reward that remains for the peacemakers, their kingdom of heaven, and they will be called the sons of God. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88092	Thank you very much. Now we're going to switch to individual, please? ... And you can't at the last minute, I mean you should have announced. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, come on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88093	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88094	And he hasn't even started talking yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88095	It's a serious topic, and we're talking about people you mentioned, who deserve a pedestal and deserve to be mentioned, to be in textbooks, to have these examples in the future, today's children on these examples learn by all people who are peacemakers, humanists, who at difficult times essentially show what is superhuman. You mentioned earlier in your Vukovar, when you mention who's the greatest hero, you name three or four people, remember a hundred more later. However, I will repeat, without diminishing the importance of anyone, the very motive of peacemaking and this day of peacemaking that does not exist in Croatia, and many of these people were peacemakers, and the most prominent, greatest official, the man who forgave, the man who in Yugoslavia, who wrote to him that the only black country for him was a medicine, a man who was imprisoned for writing to someone a retired officer, was not a retired officer, but he forgave. It is a man who was held captive in the communist regime, not hated, not avenged, but at the most difficult times when Croatia burned as in you Vukovar, in me in Sinj, Vrlica, irrelevant. At that time, the people of Croatia called for peace, Serbian to their brothers. He was leaving among these people expecting them to respond in the same way. But he was the biggest official, the biggest RS official who was this way killed and he is a symbol, not reducing others, however. All these people are supposed to be in textbooks. There are many people in the Republic of Croatia who are humanists, peacemakers, who wanted peace on the one hand and on the other, it is true. It's not all black or white, but Ivan Schreter, the doctor, is at this point a symbol. He's very little recognizable in the general public. It's been mentioned a lot lately. Which is why the government, you have your position and I cannot agree with your view that in Croatia there must not be names of symbols of that time, and not underestimating others, I think that this date is precisely when we determine the peace of Dr. Ivan Schreter will basically withdraw all these peacemakers and will be remembered. Because if we hadn't discussed this subject, you wouldn't have mentioned many, either, you wouldn't have had a chance this way. So, space will be opened for those who are worthy and who have fought for peace, who have given their lives for peace, to be mentioned and not to be forgotten. But it's because of future generations, so that crimes like they were in the Homeland War never happen again, like in any war. Thus, many people helped Croatia, listed Alois Mock, Pope John Paul, and many helped Croatia. However, Dr. Schreter was the boss, the Croatian official and he helped, he was a peacemaker. Look out, it's a man who when everything goes up in the air, the houses, religious objects, the church, he invites people who rebelled to their brothers. Remove the company, you're not the problem with us as Serbs, remove the Chetnik symbols. We don't go after you with Ustasha symbols. And that's why I'm surprised. It was the main man for Western Slavonia, the man who forgave but sought peace. He demanded peace. His bones are not known today, and I believe that the day of peace is also the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter and everyone else. So everybody else comes in here too. But he's a symbol, he's an icon, he's that lighthouse that's been on top of all the duties and he's believed in peace. And those hens who robbed the Republic of Croatia, they don't care about peace or peace today. It suits them with war, and then like rats, they come out and rob Croatia, and peace suits them because this capital, they manipulate both the media and the public and political parties or they buy, no matter what I'm talking about. So this is about a man who was the highest official of the state, who forgave those who persecuted him, who invited his enemies to his brothers because he believed that he could be resolved peacefully and that he could be co-existence, and I believe that this man who is not known for his remains deserves to be a day of peace and to be a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88096	Thank you. We have a few replicas. Honorable representative Marko Sladolev is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Bull, I'll tell you why the important symbols are from the teacher's perspective. So today after eighth grade, you ask the children after the eighth grade, who are heroes of the Homeland War, unfortunately they can't count them. So, what I'm saying is that symbols, names are important. As the Vukovar symbol of the defense in the Homeland War, even though other cities have been killed, Vukovar is a symbol. So people have to have some symbol that they're going to call on. That's how dr. Schreter. This does not diminish the importance of other people, I believe that both their families and they agree with this name.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88098	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88099	I agree with you. I'm proud, let's say I suggested as city councilman, mentioned fellow Matic just before Poljak Sokola, I suggested that one sports field be named after Andrija... And to the edges of the Pole, Sokol the sons, who went out of Sinj, to defend the Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there are children proud because Vukovar is a symbol. Vodotoranj, I am also planning to be at the centre of the new circular stream where Alka is being inside the water tower because Vukovar is a symbol of the Homeland War, of resistance, and everywhere there was Gospić and Sinj and Dubrovnik, but the symbol is Vukovar. The Vukovar is the victim. The Vukovar is the one who stopped the enemy. Vukovar is the one who has allowed the entire Republic of Croatia to gain the opportunity to defend itself. That's right. Ivan Schreter, peacemaker, symbol, like the Vukovar symbol. As Vukovar is a symbol of the Homeland War, so is the symbol of peace, peace, humanity, patriotism, tolerance, humanism Dr. Ivan Schreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88100	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88101	Thank you very much. So, dear Miro, I have long hesitated, which I support, in which way you set yourself here, however, experience taught me and you mentioned people. So, believe me, the Treasure of Zadro is all over me, and I believe for everyone, the first name of the Homeland War and this little thing has been very much pawned and many are now called schools and streets by it. I've experienced, I'm not going to cut the inconvenience, but people's remarks, why the treasure, what the treasure, and where our children are, what we... So it's happening, we've said so many nice words today about Dr. Schreter, that I'm afraid it's going to cause an animuse later on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ask, I don't know, you have to choose a feeling. So you'd be right there with him, Joseph Rajhokir, and it's so hard. I think you've reached a side of what the government isn't four months old. Answered that, that's another part of it, it can be criticised, but you did it, you did something that hasn't been done in 27 years, and I'm afraid it doesn't challenge the aminosity of pushing any names. I can tell from experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88102	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88103	As a Croatian defender, as a minister, you know how it is to treat those who are not known about the bones. Not only was he a peacemaker, that man still doesn't know about bones. And if he represented, you heard here, and my colleague and colleague from the HDZ are here his speeches are on this pay phone, so you can chill out. Therefore, it was a peacemaker who knew nothing about bones. The largest Croatian duty in that time, appointed by the Croatian government or President Franjo Tudjman, that the area, which we call for peace, is not known for its bones. His reward is at this point, so he doesn't know about the bones. We can quote the gospel, but I believe our children must learn about peace, about Dr. Ivan Schreter and everyone you've listed, but Dr. Ivan Schreter is like the Vukovar symbol of the Homeland War. So, Dr. Ivan Schreter is a symbol of peace in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88104	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88105	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, I think you've explained very well why you should be standing here by the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter. Namely, the person who at the time, when hate was shining, when many people under such action agreed to think, to take bad thoughts, to act badly, he then called the Serbs brothers and insisted on it, he repeated it, and it was in fact a evading of the soil to those haters. I wish there were people on the other hand willing to act like that. And it's embarrassing and hypocritical, that this proposal, which is here, accepts but leaves out this worthy and honorable name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88106	Thank you. A fellow Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88107	Here we agree fellow Dobrović, that a man like Schreter, we all agree, I... Not one bad word, which is why I was bothered by that amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and a strange one for four months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Five months. which didn't answer. If anyone represents peace, humanism, and mostly peacemaking, it's Dr. Ivan Schreter. And it's a little public knowledge of what a colleague in front of the HDZ Club said. And I believe that on the day of peace, which is the motive of me, as a promoter, that we have a day of peace, reading about it, following, listening, studying, talking to witnesses of that time, I have come to the conclusion that just the day of peace is to be mentioned by the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter. That's the idea and the point of this proposal, otherwise everything goes down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88108	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88109	Dear Vice President, colleague Bulj, thank you for the gesture, the proposal, I have signed your support, and I am certainly in favour, whatever form this was voted upon. Well, we're talking about Dr. Schreter, we're talking about peacemakers, on different sides. Not Dr. Schreter, not the only victim, not Dr. Schreter, not the only peacemaker, everyone knows a victim, and everyone knows a peacemaker. A fellow former minister Fred Matic said very well, knowing the group he was moving in, that everyone would like his friend to have his own street, that he would be the greatest hero. Maybe I'd like to, say, on the 2.5th day of Borov Sela, there's no action of Borovo Sela, the death of 12 directors, maybe I'd be in some... In fact, he wanted it to be named after someone close to me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I won't talk about it, I'll tell you, we'll determine it that day, but we'll give it to you with... and with an honest memory to remember both Schreter and all the peacemakers, because you all know I'm in the Croatian Parliament, so I've already staged the exhibitions five times, two memories of the 18.11. fall of Vukovar, three memories, shares in Borov Selo, the death of 12 monks where I also brought, in the natural size of the painting of Dr. Schreter and Reverend Borko from the Tovarnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I purposely exposed those images, to inciting a little memory, a little respect for the victim, not only 12 directors, but all the other victims, but also the peacemaker of Dr. Schreter. However, in that exhibition, as in all previous ones, very few representatives responded from all clubs, very little, these are individuals on the fingers of two hands can be counted so that they came to give up the due pie, respect, memory of that sacrifice. Whose? So it'll probably be possible and as time shows us, what time and future are waiting for us with Dr. Shretcher. There are those who are living witnesses of that time, who will remember the way it is. At that time, when the winds of war came from the east, there were bowmen, candles in darkness like Dr. The shretch who called for peace and who had to be extinguished because the scarcity was too great and had long since fallen first victims and blood had sought blood. A long time ago, revenge came to light on the day of their end of those stories. Long ago, a neighbor of his neighbor and neighbor recorded any calls. And as our colleague Fred Matic says, various thieves, war profiteers, have been exploited in this war. Both on the Croatian side and on the Serbian side. But the indisputable fact of fellow Matic, that you forgot about the brushes who only killed from ideology, which were not interested in material benefiting them, their knife only asked for Croatian blood at the head with their presidents. And they should be mentioned and told who they are. But both you and me and my colleague Bulj, we go to the same goal only from different angles and to that end we will all come at some time but will agree. My goal is one completely different. As one of the many victims does not satisfy me at all that a certain day one in a year, I will mark it perhaps, perhaps in a group, with none or with many of them in an appropriate way, I am concerned by the other thing. We forever advocate and honor the victim's cult, and we can't be a cult of winners, that after the Storm we celebrate the Storm, and so we can find out who might be guilty of the death of Dr. Sretter as well as all the victims. I'm going from my point of view to my goal, and that's exactly why I'm the same way to light up Dr. Crescent's death. Schreter and many others will likely encourage that, with certain documentation, testimony, so that we will celebrate Dr. The shretcher of the moment when we find his bones and shed light on his fate to the end, and in this many will have to help us, but in the way that I seek it, through justice, not through any other motives, I will not insinuate, invent, impose, but only justice, the right to sacrifice and for the living. And that's why I'm gonna start reading some papers. These are the documents of investigators from Gradiška, a very high inspector, a police officer who wrote a lot of books about the victims of the Homeland War, especially Pakrac, Vukje and the rest. Says August 18th, '91. years of Dr. Ivan Šreter was in the morning during a conversation in Zagreb with Josip Manulić, together with the newly built president of the municipality and crisis headquarters Nova Gradiška Zdravko Sokić, left Zagreb together and split up at Kutina. Zdravko Sokić went to Gradiška and Dr. Shretcher to Pacrac. In the town of Kukunjevac at the set Serbian barricade, he was welcomed and captured. The participants of the kidnapping Dr. Šretera are: Luka Pasic, Milan Lalic, Đuro Licina, Stevo Pekec, Pero Romic and all by order of Branko Pavic, members of Serbia's National Security Service in charge of Western Slavonia and now located in Australia in the city of Adelaide. So this way, if the DORH can be followed by someone who's awake, let them call me and ask me that with documentation and witnesses, we can testify to that as well. Data on Serbian camps, prisoners in Pakrac area since 16 August, are therefore reports with people who are important, with their data and who participated in that action that day. Next, in mid-September of '91. A secret meeting was held at the initiative of SDSS President Ilija Sasic in western Slavonia in the village of Cikotsko River near Pakrac where Milorad Pupovac was a guest. The meeting was attended by Veljko Djakula, SDS President Pakrac and the organiser of armed riots in the Pakrac area. Branko Pavić, SDB Serbia employee in charge of Western Slavonia, Veljko Vukelic, Western defence commander Jovo Vesmar, Cedo Gačesa police employee, Nenad Vurdelja, Milan Petkovic and Milan Lončar. So that's what 18-corp command wrote. So they pedantically ran the former JNA, all their documentation, and they're talking about it. Furthermore, the report says, more specifically, from the book Slavko Degorcija, page 166 of the book "It was not in vain," says this way: Now I'm not sure if it's been one or two days, comes Pupovac, allegedly from Pakrac, his first words are you've done the job and I haven't done it yet. I ask why, they don't give it because they need it as a doctor, you know what it's like, they don't have a doctor. As soon as they get doctors, they let Schreter go. It hasn't been a few days, I hear from UNPROFOR's representative that Dr. Schretter's dead. At the same time from the records from that time military major, the sanity of SAO Krajina, western Slavonia, Pupuk hospital, Buče has 53 hospital employees from doctors to nurses, to all others. The war hospital Psunj Brusnik, the ambulance Kraguj Pakrac, has 10 employees and the Papav bukov military hospital and the ulterior hospital Kusonje have 8 employees, it is evident that Dr. esteemed Pupovac lied in his statement to Slavko Degorcija, he lied, for what purpose, for what reason? Maybe out of fear, maybe out of something else, but he lied. And that's what I'm behind. I'll support the proposal the way I said it and the way I thought about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88110	Thank you. We have one replica, respected representative of Peter Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88111	Thank you very much. Well, here's a esteemed colleague, Culey, you've taken quite a look at this day's questions, troublesome name this day by the name of a man who really left a great trail and a great sacrifice. I don't think we should be so politicized about it, or debated because the fact is that after the adoption of the Croatian Parliament in the memory of the Croatian people that it will remain a memory and that it will always be mentioned and evoked as a part of the celebration of this day and tied this day to Dr. Schretter. I therefore think it would be good for it to return on August 18th as the date on which it disappeared and with this we also have double symbolism, so a reminder of the great Serbian aggression on Croatia. In a similar way, we should mark all our holidays more appropriate, and we should remember all the sacrifices that fell for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88112	Answer, no answer. Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88113	Thank you very much. Here's during this debate, and even my last colleague, Culey, was talking about the role of Dr. Schretter, his sighting, but it's a fact, and thank you as vice president, but I personally as a motionary and motivated, not by friendship, nor by any closeness with Dr. I live in Sinj, and Dr. Šreter lived far away at the time, we were in the same story, but in other places, Croatia is the same. Here is my motive for Croatia to have a day of peace. And I can't give up this piece of work, dr. Ivan Schreter. Yes, I've been to your stands by colleague Culej and I'm sorry when you thank everyone, and it was me and colleague Ines who are present, Ines Strenja-Linić... You haven't called, for example? So we don't bite and Ines Strenja-Linić is the observed defender as the doctor of the 9th Guard Brigade, before 111th and 9th and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I wouldn't have usurped the law here, and neither would you, this is a proposal, legal, legitimate, well thought out, well thought out, and I suggested it just because of dr. I called Ivan Schreter a day of peace because there is no day of peace in Croatia. I can all give it up right now, at this point, this name of the deed, but I don't want it, nor can I. No, I don't want to, what I don't want, but the simple motive of this proposal was dr. Ivan Schreter, you went to all these people who helped, who was the greatest official at that moment in Western Slavonia, he was appointed directly by the President of the Republic then Chief of Staff Dr. Francis Tudjman. And he thinks differently, but in a number of environments, he doesn't call for a lynch, he doesn't call for murder, he calls for peace at that moment, peace, that we are all citizens of the Republic and that we can live together with all the differences and other views of hundreds of things. He invites Serbs to his brothers, after all they've done. And he's a motif of peace, as the highest official. A man who doesn't know about bones yet, which is why the government gives this amendment I don't know about. He probably has some motive justified, but I can't accept him, and I'm not going to give him up because that's why I'm being represented in this case that gave me the motivation to declare peace day and remember that man. I accepted 18.8 when he was captured, not the last time he was seen by witnesses on 29.8th was last seen, his colleague saw him beaten up, tortured, and that's the point of the story. I'm not here to investigate, we're not here to investigate. This is a proposal to be a day of peace. I don't know what it means to you right now by a fellow bud for most, I won't get into it. But the fact that you rightly ask these questions, but the fact that we don't get answers. I think, gentlemen and colleagues, that this is too serious a subject, that this should have been spoken of long ago, I think I'm in a conversation with a number of people who knew Dr. Šretera, following everything that was read, I think we have a Croatian peacemaker who should be a representative of all peacemakers in the future, and that's Dr. Schretter. Ivan Schreter. We won't be ashamed, believe me, there will always be those who speak one way or the other, always those who throw a stone at someone, but trust me, studying, studying as a representative, and as a man, believe me, Ivan Schreter won't turn red if we declare him that we remember the day of peace, that we remember Dr. Ivan Schreter, as well as everyone else who deserves peace and peace. And this is not politicization, we have to do something to our children, we're the biggest home to decide on, this is the truth about the Homeland War, so Ivan Schreter is true, not a lie. It's not like they invited Vukic in Croatia to mock in Glina and the red wallpaper to fall and say that Serbian Glina, who did not apologize, who did not bring the documents, may have documents on Schreter. No, we throw red flowers, wallpapers in front of him, and about dr. We think of Ivan Schreter as calling for peace, while he called for the great borders of Serbia and for the slaughter, slaughter and crimes that he has committed, thanks to such thugs as Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88114	We have several replicas again, the first respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bulj, here are the arguments of the Government, and here are the arguments presented by my colleague Fred Matic, you know, it's hard now to weigh the scale on whose side with the arguments of the scale. What I would love, I would love for you to sit down on this issue once we decide, be truly unique and everything green on the screen, so I would ask that you, as a proposing, sit down once more with the minister and try to find a common solution, agree on a solution, and that we can really all, together, decide in a unique way and send a message to our children, to our young people that in these things we really think the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88116	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88117	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for such a constructive replica. In fact, I was sitting with the minister today... Every day, if you need to talk to him and your colleague Matic, and Culley, we'll sit down wherever you need to and no problem talking to him, but the motive of this peacemaker proposal was Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A steak for all the people we mentioned here. He's the motive of this proposal. This proposal has not come, the Day of Peace from nothing. The motive was quite dr. Schreter. Lately, he's mentioned himself and in those contexts of the story, and that's why I was five, six months ago. I suggested, twice, I asked the prime minister, I never got the answer, I went ahead with the prime minister, it was always likely, because of the current political situation. I wouldn't want to call but it takes the hands of certain people who are witnesses of that time, who should say a lot about that time. I don't have any problem sitting down with the minister, but ultimately we MPs decide. But just so you know fellow MPs, the motive of this proposal was exclusively Dr. Ivan Schretter to be called Peace Day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88118	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88119	A respected colleague, in any case, no one's motive is to protect anyone. We all have the same goal, we're just different ways, that's what I said. When we mention the book of Slavko Degorcija, which is this book from the Assembly Library, I am the only and first man who has ever asked this book to be read by all MPs and this book has been here for a very long time and I got it on a gift. I got it on a gift from the Parliament library because I asked for it first. Why? Not because I love Slavko Degorija but because I was just interested in the fate of Dr. Schretter and Mr. Pupovac's role. That's exactly why. For no other reason, I was not interested. And putting either us parallel or by vertical in the same order, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88120	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88121	Well, exactly who wouldn't put me in the political context of this proposal or we're an investigative body. But the fact is that the book you mention from Mr. Degorija, a colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić as chairman of the board already has it for a long time, we read it together, studied it for a long time precisely those things that Mr. Degorcija mentioned, in that time, here mentions now the majority representative of Mr. Pupovac. The fact is, this topic doesn't need to be politicized. The fact is, at this point, we have one proposal, and the fact is that you're Dr. John Schreter, his character, his works, his life, his patriotism, his humanity, and I don't see any reason in this amendment, this one accepted date, to erase the name, I can't because that was motive this day. You can't erase the motive. How are you going to erase the motive? And this amendment erases the motive. I accept everything and I'll talk, but the name to take off, it just doesn't make sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88122	The next replica is the respected representative of Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88123	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, all of us here today agree with what counterpart Jelkovac says, we all agree, let's just say ad about the technical detail and I think he's dead, I have to say the deceased, is that, since he hasn't been found, Dr. Schreter won again today because precisely Miro, if he was a motive and cause, he once again showed his peace of mind to work on it. I never thought I'd be the government's attorney in this case but I'm closer to this proposal because I think this date is directly linked to dr. Schretter, that this is this compromise moment because I'm saying, what I've been saying in my speech, exhibiting, mentioning one name, you're getting animosity because dr. For example, the Schreter certainly did not deserve someone in Osijek to say, e.g. Reichl-Kir, so I don't know Cardinal Kuharic, so we're close, maybe a little bit closer, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88124	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88125	We all agree, no one said any bad words about dr. Schretcher. But I'm sure fellow MPs, if we say dr. John Schreter to be a day of peace and memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter, on this date on 18.8th, we basically gave importance to all peacemakers. And this date that I suggested, on August 29, 1991, that on that day, and then the day has the same, but last seen to witnesses, beaten up, but I agree to this date, this amendment. So I have no problem agreeing to the date and amendment of the government but I have a problem with someone four months. not to give an opinion, and now that it has not given an opinion, the last hour before this decision says delete the name of Dr. Ivan Schreter, who's motive. Most of the time, dr. Schreter is the winner and he'll be the winner and by the time I can, I'll talk positively about Dr. Schreter. Schretcher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88126	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Franja Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here I am the last to apply for an individual debate and it was also a pleasure to listen to my colleagues and colleagues who discussed it, but since I come here from Požega-Slavon County, and the town of Pakrac is just in Požega-Slavon County and I don't know how many times I've been to mark various events, among other things, there has been no mention of the name of dr. Ivan Schreter. Pacrac is a hero city, Pakrac is a city where the Homeland War began on 1.3.1991, and Dr. Ivan Schreter had just marked his action, first of all as a peaceful man in the activity he had chosen, which is a medical call, but at the same time when he was a high school boy, he had already shown some understanding and preceded himself in relation to his colleagues on other activities, he pointed out. But dr. Schretter was just pointing out when it was most needed, when he felt that the situation was not good in the Republic of Croatia and where he had already predicted his thoughts, when others hadn't predicted it, that not only in the town of Pakrac, but also in the Republic of Croatia there might have been bloody conflicts, and by the appetite of Serbs who were close to the town of Pakrac, and the town of Pakrac itself had a few people over 50%, I think even over 60% were just other nationalities, especially Serbian nationalities, which based on those advices that were received from Serbia did something that was not good for Croatia, where they started to put certain pressures on people within Pacrac and others. Schreter was just a peacemaker. In his vision, he already recognized the weight that could arise and where certain conflicts might arise. It was in his efforts as chairman of the HDZ Municipal Committee that he said that we should do everything we could to avoid the worst, to avoid war. All his steps in the area of the town of Pacrac and the surrounding places were just heading in this direction, towards reconciliation, towards charity, and he was just preying on his speeches, and I listened to his speech many times at the time when this peace of mind was recorded in which Dr. Schreter was the leader of reconciliation and politics and the emerging situation. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, we all know that, on the other hand, those who did not want Croatia, those who did not want to cooperate, those who wanted to do great Serbia, committed aggression on the 1.3.1991 police station in Pakrac. Dr. Crescent. Schreter, which is today and is being talked about here, I also want to speak with pride, I want to speak with my heart, and as I always said when I came to the town of Pakrac, his name, as I said, was inevitable. However, I want to note, but that no one is offended, this debate is not necessary if it will go in some political sense, if it will go in some sense to obtain certain political points, it is not good. Dr. Crescent. If he were alive today, he'd never want to be talked about that way, why? Because he was a modest man, because his contribution to Croatia was from the heart, he never wanted someone to beat him, he did not want anyone to contribute in any way to him because of his political activity to advance, any content in writing or in a statement. That's why today we're talking about a man who deserves, who is indeed a hero, who, in such a cruel and manly way, disappeared between us, between his defenders, who until yesterday he forged the plan as well as how to maintain the survival of the Republic of Croatia, but he saw it himself that it wasn't possible. These same people who had the dots on him as president of the HDZ municipal board were precisely their indicators and ways of doing it and how they did it, in a manly way, setting up barricades to stop him and take him in an unknown direction. Yes, dear friends, that's what dr. Ivan Schreter. Which his family today has no idea where he is, whether he's alive, God forbid, but we all believe that's not true. Because just as his colleague used to say, he was tortured and beaten up in one way that he was very little to believe that after all these years he could be alive. Yeah, that's what those ferocious people did, and maybe today someone knows about when and how he was killed, and they don't want to talk about it. In the town of Pakrac his family, all his friends, comrades, volunteers of the Homeland War speak of the 18.8th date of his disappearance, no one actually has to claim any other date because no one can confirm that he was killed the date of that and that, and even those who may know, do not want to admit it and do not want to say it. Sadness is in the hearts of all of us, especially his comrades, but above all, his family I've been with don't know how many times. Everyone's looking for an answer and the only date mentioned in Pakrac is 18.8. This is the day when all those who worship him, his name, who come to worship, who want to light a candle, are friends, comrades, defenders and all those to whom Dr. Ivan Schreter means life. Therefore, dear friends, I also believe that at no cost should we politicise on Dr. Ivan Schreter. Because he'd be so offended if he could hear it today, so let's all take it together that the man is Dr. Ivan Schreter, a peacemaker who showed it in the '90s and who, as such, proved himself to be who everyone can confirm and that the date when he disappeared on 18.8. was the date, his date, unfortunately for all of us, his family, the date when the Serbian guard took him away, made him the worst for his family, we can safely claim that he was tortured, but until today we didn't get an answer that he was safely killed because no one wants to talk about it. We are sad about it and therefore this proposal, when we talk about the date, when we talk about peace, we give man the dignity not to politicize because let's treat him as he was to others, and he's in his theme, in his speeches before the attack on the town of Pakrac was just a peacemaker and he was a man who appreciated and not only the Croats, but Serbs, all the people of other nationalities, and therefore we thank him for having just been a character, and that was Dr. Ivan Schreter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88128	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative Miro Bulj will speak finally, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88129	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much, very much, thank you very much for this constructive debate. I'm just going to say once again that my motive was exclusively in which I found it in the image and work of the late Dr. Ivan Schreter, a great peacemaker that Croatia has a day of peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. The government gave its opinion, and I agree with the date 18.8, and I proposed 29.8 in my proposal. I'm extremely proud that they were constructive discussions and that we mentioned Dr. We didn't politicize Ivan Schreter, nor was it the intention of politicizing. This was the motive that in the future, this humanity that Dr. Ivan Schreter, that we also pass on to future generations, that on that day peace is always spoken in schools, institutions, institutions you remember Dr. Ivan Schreter and all the peacemakers, indeed he as the greatest state official at the time of the Homeland War, is the worst state official who has ever ended this way, and we don't know about his bones, not his family, not his compatriots, not anyone. The man was not vindictive, however, a man like himself who was head of the Cross Staff at that time in Western Slavonia showed one superhuman humanism, patriotism, peacemaking where it was born, it was simply God-given. Because of that, you've all been constructive to me, I accept all of you, but I can't figure out what's bothering you with Peace Day, I accept 18 to be 8. Schretter. As a proposer I'm motivational, I'm sorry that it wasn't before I was in Parliament 20 years ago that it wasn't talked about, but it wasn't my fault, maybe it wasn't you, because it wasn't thought about it that way. I'm sorry if politics, if it's politicized this case and if anyone conditiones, I don't know, mentioning a fellow Pupovac, it depends on most of the fellow Pupovac, if that's how it's politicized to delete the name, then it's not good, it's not good because I think that Dr. Pupovac is going to do it. Schreter must not be politicized. And mine wasn't a policy proposal, nor was it a role in that time and Mr. Pupovac, who now depends on most. I can't get that answer, but I find it surprising that four months, since the 5th of February of this proposal, we've all agreed that the proposal makes sense, that it's thoughtful, that it's constructive in some way, that we return values of humanity's humanity, patriotism, peace of mind through character and the work of Dr. Schretter. However, the fact that 4 months does not respond to this one proposal, the government did not give an opinion, means that it is still politicised. I believe that we, parliamentarians, either HDZ, or MOST, independent, or SDP, will vote on our conscience. And it's all because of future generations that in the image and act of Dr. Ivan Schreter, the greatest official in the Homeland War, who disappeared, who was a camper, disappeared, to be his memorial to the day of peace. And thus we give recognition to all the peacemakers in the Republic of Croatia. As the symbol of the city of Vukovar, the Homeland War is one of the symbols, and many other cities were also huge victims, but it is a symbol of the Homeland War of Vukovar and resistance to the Serbian army. That's right. Ivan Schreter is a symbol of peace, patriotism, humanism, and we will not be ashamed of colleagues and colleagues, which is Dr. John Schreter will be mentioned as the day of remembrance, the day of peace and the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. Believe me, don't fall under the influence of politics, under the influence of any ruling majority, these people don't deserve it, they don't deserve their graves, and we don't know their graves. Dr. Crescent. Ivan Schreter must be our pride. Don't be under the pretenses of hypocrisy, please, now you wouldn't want this, you wouldn't want it. We are Parliament and we are those who value and make certain decisions from that time. It's hypocrisy if at any point due to most of the name Dr. Ivan Schreter in this, in the government's opinion. I don't see any other reason. I know we don't have to think the same way, but the fact is four and a half months to put an opinion on this proposal. Every day we see conflicts between the majority on this issue. I won't comment on them. Now suddenly it's a very easy story. I don't believe it's politicized, I do. I truly believe that fellow MPs will mainly, there are a lot of Croatian defenders and from colleagues here Matic to the middle, here we see this colleague Dobrovic, Ines, who are here amongst the many defenders and defenders, that they will vote by conscience, that there will be no influence of politics or the relationship of the majority-majority. This isn't... Dr. Crescent. Ivan Šretar is a peacemaker, not a question of the majority and minority in parliament. 'Cause that's what dr. Ivan Schreter was the founder of HDZ, Dr. Ivan Schreter was a bartender, here at the barracks in HDZ, the resume shows, he was head of crisis headquarters, he was... Therefore, this is not a policy issue or a SDP issue, nor a HDZ or MOST issue. This is a question about a man, a humanist, a peacemaker. About a man who laid down his life believing in peace, believing in his brother, who is a Serbian national who has mined his house, who has mined the church, believing that he will get rid of it peacefully and have room for everything. He believed that we Croats couldn't have Serbs without us. That we need each other in Croatia. Which is why, at this point, some clubs have not commented because he called for a good relationship with Serbs. Which is why the parties representing minorities have not commented here. Schreter who called for peace with Serbs and other peoples, Hungarians, Italians, irrelevant. It's a question of all the questions now. Dear Minister, in front of the government you gave an opinion, unfortunately an hour ago, with the date I agree, we can discuss everything else, but that motive Dr. Ivan Schreter, to erase, and I don't see any clear points of view about why. Yet man was the greatest official, a man whose bones are unknown, a man who must be a symbol, I repeat, a symbol of peace. I can't see a single reason why Dr. Crescent's day of peace will not be a day of memory. Ivan Schreter. I hope and invite you to vote and we will be proud of it for future generations to learn about Dr. Ivan Schreter and where the climate of peace, unity, tolerance and development of the Republic of Croatia will be created on what was represented by the peacemaker and officer Dr. Ivan Schreter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88130	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues and colleagues, I always speak from the heart. That's what I said today and everything I said, I'm behind it. But until the end of this debate, I didn't know, and it's still gonna be confirmed for some things whether they're true or not. So everyone who knows me knows that I'm very sensitive to injustice and manipulation. If, and the vote will clear these things up, if I find out that this government's attitude is the result of pressure of an individual and political manipulation, which is exactly what my colleague Lucic was talking about, so that there is no politics and political manipulation. My colleagues from MOST, SDP and I will personally think about our position even though this is all I've been saying today, I have spoken most honestly, but if this is confirmed, we will change our attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88132	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We will see each other again on Wednesday, 27 June at 9.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 362. Have a nice holiday, a little longer, an extended weekend. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 14.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88133	Proposal for a decision to declare the National Day of Peace and the Day of Remembrance of Dr. Ivan Schreter. The promoter is MP Miro Bulj, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I would ask MP Mira Bulj to show the amendments submitted. We've got two amendments, so I'd like to ask my fellow butt to be seen on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88134	Here's a thank you, I would, I suggested that we have a national day of peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter, the government is giving an amendment to throw out a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. I was also motivated by Dr. Ivan Schreter, his résumé, his peacemaking, his calling to peace and as a victim of the totalitarian regimes, and as a man when the war was already started, called the Serbs to peace and for this reason I cannot at this point, that motive of mine as a proposing, and that's Dr. Schreter. Ivan Schreter, the person who is the highest official of this rank, for which I do not yet know the bones, probably mentions Mr... Our fellow MPs, in order to know where the man is and what it is, but it is a peacemaker, it is a Croatian Gandhi, it is a peacemaker and an officer, about him recently and a documentary film was made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't understand the Government, the man who was head of crisis headquarters for Slavonia, the man who led the Croatian people and the Serb people in Pakrac at the reconciliation when the Church, when she sedated Croatian homes, called for peace, called for Serbs and then to my brothers, and therefore I expect national minorities to accept this proposal to Dr. Ivan Schreter because he was a peacemaker, he's a Croatian Gandhi. And that's why I've come up with the idea as a pronoun to be a day of peace and a day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. I would ask you fellow MPs, mostly from the majority, do not vote against Dr. Ivan Schreter, don't be politicized, conditioned by coalition partners not to vote. I do not accept this amendment and ask it to be called in the full name of National Peace Day and the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. So the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the erasure of Dr. I don't accept Schretter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88135	Thank you. I am now asking you about this will be shown by the Proposer, and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the Government, I would now like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Croatian Defence, Honored Ivan Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88136	The government remains with this amendment and will demand a vote. The reasons for the amendments are proposed by this amendment to declare the National Day of Peace, namely the creation of independent and modern Croatia as well as the defence in the Homeland War, many individuals, Croatian defenders as well as the entire Croatian people, could make an exceptional contribution to determining the special mentions and days of memory only to point out one person directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88137	I now put to the vote Amendment No 1 proposed by the Government and which the Proposer does not accept. I find that most of the votes, 73 for, 8 abstentions and 9 against, the amendment was accepted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We're going to amendment number two now. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88138	The government suggests that on August 18th, the day of national peace is declared and again erases this part of the second and the day of memory of Dr. Ivan Schreter. To a peacemaker we must not forget, we must not give him up for political calculations. He's the biggest official, nobody's humiliated here, nobody forgets here, but it's the same as the Vukovar symbol of the Homeland War, so dr. Ivan Šreter peacemaker, a Croatian Gandhi who symbolizes all peacemakers and saddens me that you have accepted colleagues from HDZ to delete from this proposal, and you have so far failed to propose Dr. Ivan Schreter on behalf of all peacemakers in this area. We should not be ashamed of our peacemakers and, in particular, Dr. Ivan Schreter, the biggest official to whom it happened that he didn't know where, he's also the missing defender, he's the man who ran the crisis headquarters, he disappeared on August 18th. I accepted it to the government in my 18th August but I cannot accept the second part of the amendment, which reads on August 18th, is declared the National Day of Peace and remains both Dr. Ivana and the Day of Remembrance of Dr. Ivan Schreter. I regret this fact, once again, I agree with the date, with the government I was to be the day he was captured and not the day he was last seen, beaten up by his fellow doctor in captivity. I'm sorry that you're afraid to declare the day of your memory of dr. Ivan Schreter and Peace Day. This is more than embarrassing, this is one of the most difficult moments for me I've studied Dr. Ivan Schreter, and even the man was also the founder of HDZ and the barracksman. I don't see any reason why it hasn't been accepted, so we've partially accepted the date, this other part of the amendment I don't accept to delete Dr. Ivan Schreter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-21-0.u88139	So now we're in a position for you to accept the date of August 18th, right? ... Ha means we'll have to, well, well, not then we'll have to vote on the amendment that the government has proposed, I understand, I understand. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we will have to vote then on the second amendment proposed by the Government and with which the applicant disagrees, please vote. I find that most of the 74 votes are in favour, 8 abstentions and 8 against this amendment proposed by the government. And now that the amendments have been adopted, I am voting on a motion for a decision to declare the National Peace Day. Please let us vote. I find that the majority of the vote is 76 votes against and 11 abstentions and 1 against, a decision has been taken to declare the National Day of Peace. We are now going to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans Emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 362. The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Honored Predrag Štromar. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
